DRN-1995829
The complaint
Mr E complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, possessed his 
mortgaged property. He also said that Halifax set an auction date without telling him, and 
didnt allow him enough time to collect his belongings.
What happened
Mr E had a mortgage with Halifax. In January 2013, Mr E moved abroad, and his family 
followed him in January 2014. 
Arrears built up on the mortgage. Halifax sent arrears letters, and a field agent visited the 
property in April 2017, and found tenants in the property. Neighbours emailed Mr E to tell 
him, and shortly afterwards he contacted Halifax. Mr E told Halifax he was living abroad, but 
his tenant hadnt paid her rent for some months. Mr E hadnt made a full monthly payment 
since the summer of 2016.
Mr E told Halifax hed be paying the April and May 2017 payments, but that didnt happen. In 
September, Mr E rang Halifax and said he hoped to make three months payments in 
October, but that didnt happen either. In November, Mr E spoke to Halifax again, and said 
he didnt want to set up an arrangement and could only afford to pay by the following March. 
Halifaxs notes record that it warned Mr E that the amount of the arrears meant there would 
be litigation proceedings.
In April 2018, Mr E rang Halifax and said that neighbours had told him a field agent had 
visited the property. Halifax told Mr E this was because hed broken his previous promises 
and arrangements to pay. Mr E said hed pay £2,500 by the end of April, in addition to 
£1,200 hed paid on 27 March. But this didnt happen. A field visit to the property in May 
reported that it was empty and abandoned.
Mr E contacted Halifax in August, and the account was put on hold for another two months. 
Mr E made a partial monthly repayment on 30 August 2018, but after that he didnt pay 
anything more. And after November 2018, Mr E didnt speak to Halifax again until March 
2019.
Halifax started possession proceedings at the end of November 2018. The County Court 
judge gave Halifax a 28 day possession order on 23 January 2019, and a money order for 
£85,808.71. By the end of March 2019, Mr Es mortgage was 24 months in arrears. 
The empty property was possessed on 13 March 2019.
The next day, on 14 March, Mr E rang Halifax, saying hed had a missed call. Halifax told 
him it had possessed the property. Mr E said hed agreed an arrangement with Halifax the 
previous November, but Halifax checked its notes and said no arrangement had been 
agreed. Mr E complained, saying there had been an arrangement, and he also complained 
because Halifax had been sending letters to the property address when he was abroad. 
During the call, Mr E gave Halifax his address abroad, which it hadnt had before. He also 
complained that Halifax had tried to call him at times which werent convenient in the country 
where he was living.
In its reply to Mr Es complaint, Halifax pointed out that Mr Es mortgage was now 24 months 
in arrears, and no payments had been received since August 2018. It said that there wasnt 
an arrangement to pay. The complaint handler had listened to the November 2018 call when 
Mr E had said he didnt want to set up an arrangement but would pay in four months time  
and hed been told litigation would start. Mr E hadnt responded to phone calls since then, 
and hadnt attended the court hearing.
Mr E complained again, saying he wanted Halifax to delay the auction, which was set for 17 
April 2019, to allow him time to collect his belongings. He said Halifax had previously told 
him it would phone about when he could access the possessed property.
Halifax replied that it had external agents who managed possessions, and in the last phone 
call in March, it had told Mr E it was his responsibility to keep in contact with the agent. 
Halifax pointed out that the longer it was before the auction, the more Mr Es debt would 
increase, and it refused to delay the auction further.
Mr E complained to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He said Mr E had been made aware that the 
level of arrears, and broken arrangements, meant there would be litigation. Mr E also hadnt 
notified Halifax of his address abroad until March 2019. And it wasnt unfair for Halifax to go 
ahead with the auction, and Halifax had said a third party could collect Mr Es belongings for 
him.
Mr E didnt agree. He set out why he hadnt met his payments. And he said hed only found 
out Halifax wouldnt move the 17 April auction date on 15 April, which was too late for him to 
fly back to the UK. He said that if hed known in November 2018 that Halifax would go to 
possession, hed have run around much more. Mr E also said hed offered to give Halifax 
his address abroad but it had refused, saying it would only send letters to the property 
address. He said when hed first come to the UK, Halifax had allowed him to pay just £50 for 
seven months until he got a job. He said Halifax had rendered him and his family homeless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By the time of the court hearing in January 2019, Mr E had been in considerable arrears for 
several years, and hadnt lived in the property for six years. Hed broken many agreements 
to pay, and the mortgage arrears were increasing. So I dont consider Halifax was wrong to 
proceed to litigation.
I also accept that Halifax had tried  its best to communicate with Mr E. Ive seen its records 
which show that it phoned, and left messages, on multiple occasions, but the phone wasnt 
answered, and when it left messages, the calls werent returned. Mr E didnt provide the 
address where he and his family were living abroad until March 2019. Ive considered Mr Es 
statement that he offered Halifax his correspondence address earlier than that, and that 
Halifax refused it. I consider thats very unlikely, because Halifax was keen to contact Mr E 
about his ongoing arrears. I also find that it was Mr Es responsibility to make arrangements 
about any post which arrived at his property address.  I note that Mr E did contact Halifax occasionally, but this was usually immediately after some 
action had happened, such as a field agent visit, or the possession. Looking specifically at 
the November 2018 phone discussion between Mr E and Halifax, Mr E told Halifax that he 
had a steady income and he would try to pay money off the arrears. The adviser told him 
that Halifax would need regular payments and a plan, but Mr E didnt pay any money or set 
up a plan. Halifax also warned him about litigation. 
I consider that Mr E knew, or should have known, after that phone call if not before, that 
litigation was going to happen. As Ive set out, he also had a responsibility to make sure that 
Halifax had his correspondence address and that he made sure he received any important 
post which went to his property. So I dont accept Mr Es claim that he didnt know about the 
possession hearing.
I also dont accept that Mr E had too little time to obtain belongings left in the property, 
before the auction. The court awarded possession in January 2019, and from that point 
onwards Mr E should have known that he would have to remove any belongings as the 
property was going to be sold. Mr E was abroad, but I consider he had sufficient time before 
17 April 2019 to arrange with Halifaxs agents for someone else to collect his belongings.
Mr E also said that when hed first come to the UK, Halifax had allowed him to pay just £50 
for seven months until he got a job. I dont have details of the very earliest concessions 
which Halifax may have made for Mr E. But it was clearly a very different situation when 
there had been many years of unpaid arrears, lack of contact, and an abandoned property. It 
isnt to be expected that the same concessions would be available in these circumstances.
Finally, I note that Mr E has said that Halifax rendered him and his family homeless. I dont 
accept this. Mr E told us that he moved abroad in January 2013 and his family joined him in 
January 2014. The possession of the mortgaged UK property took place in March 2019. So 
he had been living elsewhere abroad for over six years by that point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman