DRN-2890011
The complaint
Mr R complains about the interest rate The Mortgage Business Plc (trading as TMB) have 
charged on his mortgage account. He feels TMB unfairly switched his mortgage from a 
product that tracked the Bank of England (BoE) base rate, to their standard variable rate 
(SVR). He feels the SVR is too high. As a result, he feels hes been overcharged.
What happened
Mr R took out a mortgage in 1999 for 20 years, which he says was on a lifetime BoE base 
rate tracker. In 2006, he took out a new mortgage product which was a variable rate that 
tracked 0.54% above the BoE base rate. That product ended on 31 December 2011, and the 
mortgage offer stated that TMBs SVR would apply to the mortgage after that date. The 
mortgage was also switched to interest only.
In 2017 Mr R complained to TMB. He was unhappy that the interest rate was switched from 
a lifetime tracker to a product that reverted to the SVR. Hed asked TMB for evidence hed 
agreed to the switch, but they didnt have a signed copy of the offer. He also complained that 
as a result of the advice given by TMB he was going to have no option but to sell his home 
at the end of the term.
In March 2017 TMB sent Mr R their final response letter. This explained that in November 
2006 Mr R verbally agreed to a tracker rate that was 0.54% above Bank of England base 
rate that expired in December 2011. His mortgage was also switched to interest only. Since 
January 2012 Mr R had been charged the SVR on his mortgage in line with the mortgage 
offer, so no error had been made.
 
They said the product was taken on a non advised basis, and they had told Mr R of the 
importance of arranging a separate savings plan to pay the mortgage off at the end of the 
term. TMB did pay Mr R £75 for incorrectly telling him hed signed the mortgage offer in 2006 
when they didnt have evidence of that.
In January 2020 Mr R complained to TMB again. TMB sent him another letter in January 
2020. This explained that the complaint points hed raised were the same as those dealt with 
previously in their final response of March 2017. They also said that as the term of Mr Rs 
mortgage had ended, he needed to speak to them about a plan to repay the balance.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service in February 2020, but TMB didnt give us their 
consent to consider it as they said it had been brought out of time. Our investigator looked 
into things, and agreed that a lot of Mr Rs concerns had been referred to us out of time. But 
he thought we could consider Mr Rs complaint about the interest rate hed been charged 
since TMB sent their final response letter in March 2017. He didnt think the rest of the 
complaint had been brought late due to exceptional circumstances.
TMB gave our service consent to consider what had happened since March 2017 so the 
investigator issued his view on the merits of that part of the complaint. He didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and still wanted our service to consider all of his 
complaint points. He gave us information about the issues hed had with his health over the 
years, and felt exceptional circumstances should apply.
I issued a decision which said our service could only consider Mr Rs complaint about the 
interest rate charged on his mortgage since March 2017. I said Mr Rs other concerns had 
been brought to us out of time.
The complaint has been passed back to me for consideration of its merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has sent us lots of information about his complaint and his circumstances. Im sorry to 
hear about his poor health during recent years. I want to assure Mr R that Ive considered 
everything hes told us carefully before reaching this decision  although a lot of his 
concerns relate to those parts of his complaint that were brought out of time. So I wont refer 
to those here.
 
In November 2006, TMB sent Mr R a product transfer offer letter which set out the terms of 
the mortgage following the switch to a new product. Whilst I appreciate Mr R disputes the 
validity of this product switch, Im unable to look at that as part of this complaint.
 
Ive seen a copy of the offer letter, and that stated Mr Rs mortgage was interest only, and 
had 12 years and 10 months remaining on the term. A tracker interest rate was applied to 
the mortgage until 31 December 2011. That rate would track 0.54% above the Bank of 
England base rate. After the initial period, the mortgage would revert to TMBs SVR.
When Mr Rs mortgage reverted to the SVR in January 2012, it was 4.95%. And it remained 
at that rate until September 2018 when it increased to 5.2%. Its since reduced again 
following changes in 2020, but those changes were made after Mr R made his complaint.
 
Mr R has said that the SVR he was charged was too high in comparison to the Bank of 
England base rate. Whilst the mortgage was initially on a tracker rate, once that expired  
the rate applied to Mr Rs mortgage was not tied to the base rate by any set margin. Whilst 
the base rate is something that TMB would have taken into account when setting their SVR 
 it does not mean the SVR should have been lower than it was, or tracked the base rate by 
any set margin. The SVR TMB have charged has been in line with comparable rates 
charged by other mortgage lenders.
 
The terms and conditions for Mr Rs mortgage explain that TMB can change the interest rate 
at any time, and list the reasons that could prompt a change. The increase of 0.25% to the 
SVR in September 2018, followed a 0.25% rise in the Bank of England base rate. This 
change was made by several lenders across the industry at the time and so was not 
uncommon. Im satisfied this change was permitted under the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage, and that it was fair for TMB to implement it. Whilst Mr Rs mortgage was on the 
SVR, there were no Early Repayment Charges applicable should he have decided to move 
his mortgage elsewhere.
So whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Im not persuaded TMB have 
charged him an SVR that was higher than it should have been.Mr Rs mortgage term has now ended, and the balance needs to be repaid. Id encourage Mr 
R to discuss his circumstances with TMB so that an agreement can be reached about how 
the mortgage will be repaid. He may also want to seek independent advice about his 
options. TMB will need to take Mr Rs individual circumstances into account when deciding 
the next steps for collecting the outstanding mortgage balance.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman