DRN-3322311
The complaint
Mr R complains about three fixed sum loan agreements with Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited (Virgin), which he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
In January 2020 Virgin discovered that a third party had successfully applied for three fixed 
sum loan agreements, using Mr Rs personal details. Mr R discovered what had happened 
when he saw several direct debit payments to Virgin on his current account statement.
To try and sort the matter out, Virgin took steps to close the loan agreements and work with 
Mr Rs bankers, to refund the direct debit payments. However, Virgin say that they 
mistakenly left one of the loans open. This caused various arrears letters to be sent to Mr R. 
He says this prompted him to complain and when he did, he didnt feel Virgin were taking 
any action to resolve things.
Mr R says Virgin didnt respond to his concerns, so he brought his complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into Mr Rs case and found that Virgin hadnt treated him fairly. He 
said Virgin had closed the outstanding agreement and amended Mr Rs credit file in April 
2021. The investigator also concluded it was fair for Virgin to write a letter of apology to Mr R 
and to pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience he had experienced.
Virgin accepted the investigators findings, but Mr R didnt. He said £200 didnt reflect the 
repeated harassment for payment by Virgin, for over a year. Mr R also said he wanted Virgin 
to make a donation to a charity of his choice and for the letter of apology to come from 
Virgins Chief Executive Officer.
The investigator didnt change his conclusions, so Mr Rs case has now been referred to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin have accepted that Mr R was the victim of a third partys actions to obtain credit to pay 
for goods, without Mr Rs authorisation. I understand that Mr R wants to know how this 
happened to him. But, Virgin havent held Mr R responsible for the repayments. So, its not 
necessary for me to look into how the fraud happened in the first place. 
My investigation has focussed on the steps taken by Virgin to put things right and if theyve 
treated Mr R fairly and reasonably.
The closing of the loan agreements
Virgins records show they closed the fixed sum loans within a few weeks of Mr R reporting 
his concerns to them. I can see that Virgin very quickly agreed that a third party had taken 
out the three loans without Mr Rs authorisation and took steps to close the accounts.
Mr R has provided copies of the letters of arrears which Virgin sent to him from September 
2020 onwards. And Virgin confirmed to us that one of the loans remained open until April 
2021. So, I think it took around fifteen months for Virgin to recognise that they hadnt closed 
all of the fixed sum loan accounts, and for them to take steps to put things right for Mr R.
Having considered everything, I think Virgin made an error by keeping one of the fixed sum 
loan accounts open. Therefore, I think its only fair that Virgin make sure all the loan 
accounts opened by the third party using Mr Rs details, in December 2019 and January 
2020 are now closed. This means Mr R wont receive further letters of arrears or demands 
for repayment for the fixed sum loan agreements.
Because Virgin have accepted Mr R didnt authorise the opening of the fixed sum loans, I 
think its fair for the information held with credit references agencies to reflect that. So, I think 
Virgin should contact the credit reference agencies and remove any information about the 
loans from any records they have for Mr R.
Virgin have told us theyve already put this part of the settlement into place. This means they 
may have taken the necessary action here. But, I remind Virgin of Mr Rs experiences with 
his concerns since January 2020 and that it would be beneficial to make sure this is the end 
of the matter for him.
The distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr R
Throughout his complaint, Mr R has described the frustration he feels towards Virgin for the 
length of time they took to cancel the agreements and correct his credit file. And Ive 
considered the impact of the delay caused by Virgin on Mr R.
I note though, that it was the third party who caused the initial difficulties Mr R experienced. 
Ive concluded that Virgin needed to do more to put things right for Mr R. But, Ive separated 
that from the considerable upset caused by the third partys actions, when they took out the 
fixed sum loans in Mr Rs name without his authorisation.
Mr Rs records show he wrote to Virgin when he noticed the direct debit payments leaving 
his current account. I can also see that Mr R continued to try and sort his concerns out with 
Virgin, when he started to receive letters asking him to repay the arrears on the outstanding 
loan account. 
In his complaint notes, I can see that Mr R made it clear to Virgin that he was worried about 
the impact of the loan accounts on his credit file. This continued from when Mr R contacted 
us in September 2020, to when Virgin confirmed the closure of the loan in April 2021. Having 
looked at everything, I think it took Virgin over a year for Virgin to take the appropriate steps 
to close all the loans and remove the data from Mr Rs credit file.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr R says here. Hes told us about the impact of the 
delay by Virgin on his personal circumstances. I accept Mr R has been put to some degree 
of worry by Virgin. But, given what Mr R has told us, I dont think that the level of worry Mr R 
has experienced means its fair for me to require Virgin to change the amount proposed by 
the investigator.
I know Mr R wanted an increase on Virgins award and a separate donation to be made by 
Virgin to charity. However, after considering what everyone has said, I think Virgins offer to 
pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced is fair and reasonable.
The letter of apologyVirgin has offered to write to Mr R with a letter of apology. But, Mr R has asked for the letter 
to be written by the Chief Executive Officer. Mr R has also said hed like stronger action 
taken against Virgin, so they may avoid similar things from happening to other customers.
I can see from Mr Rs correspondence with us that he feels very strongly about whats 
happened. And while I empathise with the situation Mr R found himself in, our role is to 
consider individual complaints. And here, I think Virgins offer to send Mr R an apology, 
along with the other steps theyve taken, is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
To put things right, Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited should:
- close all three fixed sum loan agreements opened using Mr Rs personal details from 
December 2019 to January 2020;
- remove any information about the three fixed sum loan agreements from the 
information held with credit reference agencies;
- send Mr R a written apology for the way he was pursued for balances owed under 
any of the agreements; and
- pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman