DRN-2932137
The complaint
Mr C through a professional representative complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited 
(Standard Life) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of his Occupational Pension 
Scheme in 1991.
What happened
In 1991 Mr C was advised by Standard Life to transfer out of his OPS and into a personal 
pension.
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pension business, including pension transfers that had happened 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994.
Standard Life carried out a review and sent the outcome of its review to Mr C as part of 
phase 2 of the review.  Standard Life completed the review in December 1999 and wrote to 
Mr C to confirm he had been financially disadvantaged by the transfer. They offered him 
compensation to increase his pension and he accepted their offer in full and final settlement 
in early 2000.
More recently Mr Cs representative complained that Mr C wouldve received a significantly 
higher pension if he had not been given unsuitable advice in 1991. It requested that 
Standard Life pay Mr C compensation in line with the Financial Conduct Authority's (FCA) 
updated FG17/9 guidance.
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint, it said it had already reviewed the sale in line with 
the regulators guidance and it wasnt obliged to review the sale again. Mr Cs representative 
requested Standard Lifes pension review file but it said it hadnt retained it.
Mr Cs representatives said as Standard Life hadnt retained all the information from the 
review at the time, they couldnt demonstrate it had been done correctly and therefore it 
should be reviewed again using FG17/9.
Our investigator looked into matters and found that Standard Life likely had done the review 
in line with the regulatory guidance at the time and so didnt need to do anything more. She 
sent Mr Cs representative the information she had relied upon. This included a summary of 
the calculation information and process. This set out the rationale for the calculation, 
including specific information about the decisions made in carrying out the calculation. It also 
showed it had gone through a number of actuarial checks before being signed off.
Mr Cs representative responded to say this wasnt all the information Standard Life 
shouldve retained and therefore it couldnt demonstrate it had done the review correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the Pension Review applicable?
Both parties agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this 
situation. And for the avoidance of doubt, I think it was the correct way to address the 
transfer back in 2000. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer  it is not required to 
look at the matter again. Providing the review addressed the circumstances of the complaint 
and had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance. I think this represents a fair and 
reasonable position when considering this complaint.
Standard Lifes position
Standard Lifes position is that it has already considered Mr Cs transfer in-line with the SIB 
Pension Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past 
Business  Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators 
thereafter. And so, it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again.
Mr Cs representatives position
Mr Cs representative says Standard Life were required to retain the documentation 
indefinitely so that it could be independently reviewed. And as it hasnt done so, it cannot 
demonstrate in line with FG17/9 that it carried out the review in accordance with the 
guidance at the time  and the particular circumstances of the case were addressed.
Was there a mistake in the original review?
Standard Life hasnt retained all of the documentation from the time of the review as it was 
required to do so. But this doesnt mean they didnt carry out the review in line with the 
guidance at the time. 
Whilst Standard Life hasnt been able to provide a full pension review file, it has provided us 
with the offer letter and the assumptions made within. It also has retained its internal 
calculation check summary which shows its rationale for the redress offered. This shows that 
it had contacted Mr Cs OPS and got information about the scheme. It also shows that the 
calculation went through a number of checks and had actuarial involvement. 
From the evidence we do have its clear that Mr Cs policy was part of the pension review, 
Standard Life did carry out calculations and Mr C was compensated. We can also see the 
assumptions made about Mr C and key details about how the redress figure was reached. 
Mr C at the time accepted the redress offer and seemingly didnt raise any issues with the 
assumptions made. And as part of this complaint, we shared the loss assessment summary 
information and no arguments were forthcoming that anything within it wasnt correct.
Mr Cs complaint about the review being wrong is also speculative  its not based on 
anything specific, just that information wasnt retained. But I think Standard Life has provided 
evidence that suggests on the balance of probabilities the calculation was done in line with 
the regulatory guidance at the time.Whilst Standard Life doesnt have a full pension review file, the regulator provided 
assumptions and a framework for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. At the 
time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do much of the reviews  as Standard 
Life has done so here. And businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and 
external quality checks by the regulator. In our experience the large majority of calculations 
have been calculated in line with the regulators guidance. Given Standard Life collected 
information about Mr Cs scheme, it knew the personal pension inputs as it administered the 
policy and its reviews were subject to internal checking, I think the review was on the 
balance of probabilities likely carried out in line with the guidance.
So I think its more likely than not that Mr Cs  Pension Review was in accordance with the 
regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of the transaction at the time 
and the particular circumstances of the case were addressed by those standards.
Conclusions
The pension review was a one-off exercise and in 2000 Mr C agreed a final settlement in 
respect of the transfer advice he received. Only in limited circumstances would I look beyond 
that agreement. That would include where the calculation was done incorrectly. But, the 
evidence Ive seen suggests it likely was done correctly. And so I dont think theres any 
reason for me to require Standard Life to redo the redress calculation using the FG/17 
guidance.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman