DRN-4480170
The complaint
L is a limited company and is represented by its director, Mr A. Mr A complains that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC closed Ls business account without notification and failed to follow the 
subsequent instructions of the Treasury Solicitor.
What happened
L held its company bank account with Barclays. In early 2022, Mr A voluntarily dissolved the 
company. Barclays was notified that L had been dissolved and it wrote to Mr A on 10 March 
and 23 May 2022. Ls account was then closed, and its assets paid to the Crown.
In summary, Mr A says:
The letter dated 23 May 2022 asked him to contact Barclays to let it know what he 
wanted to do with Ls account. But, by the time he contacted Barclays on 8 June, the 
account had been closed. And he was told the account balance had been transferred 
to the Treasury Solicitor.
He was led to believe his call was being transferred to the Treasury Solicitor, but he 
was kept waiting for a long time, so he hung up.
He contacted the Treasury Solicitor himself and was told the funds from Barclays had 
not been received. And he should tell Barclays to stop the transfer as there would be 
complications if this didn't happen.
Subsequent calls to Barclays on 8 June and 9 June 2022 were not returned.
The funds were transferred to the Treasury Solicitor on 16 June 2022. So, Barclays 
had over 5 working days to stop the transfer but failed to follow the instructions of the 
Treasury Solicitor.
The service he received from Barclays was poor.
Barclays acknowledged that its customer service felt short of what Mr A had a right to expect 
and it offered £300 compensation in total in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
But it didnt think it had done anything wrong in respect of the transferring Ls credit balance 
to the Treasury solicitor. It said when a company is dissolved any assets legally belong to 
the Crown. And that a customers instructions dont supersede its legal obligations. It added 
that the Treasury Solicitor confirmed receipt of the funds on 20 June 2022.
Mr A didnt accept this outcome and referred the complaint to this service. He said that if 
Barclays needed direct instructions from the Treasury Solicitor it should have told him. He 
added that Barclays communication with him had been misleading and it hadnt provided 
any support and failed to return his calls. He maintained Barclays should have followed the 
Treasury Solicitors instructions to stop the transfer.
One of investigators looked into the complaint. But he didnt uphold it. He said Barclays 
hadnt made a mistake as it had followed the correct procedures when L was dissolved. He 
noted that Barclays had accepted that some of its customer service had fallen short, but he 
thought the compensation offered was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that Barclays had a duty to tell him about the action it intended to 
take. And that the Treasury Solicitor had told him to tell Barclays to stop the transfer. He also 
explained that hed had to arrange for L to be reinstated via a court order so that he could 
recover the account balance. And, due to the time it had taken, over £5,000 in credit interest 
had been lost in addition to the costs incurred in reinstating L as an active company.
The investigator considered what Mr A had said. But he thought that Barclays would have 
only been required to stop the transfer if such an instruction had been received from the 
Treasury Solicitor.
Mr A didnt agree. He says this is a simple case of Barclays not following the Treasury 
Solicitors instructions. And he maintained that if Barclays needed an instruction directly from 
the Treasury Solicitor, Barclays should have informed him of that. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. And I issued 
a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 25 October 2023.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
It is important to note that the only person potentially eligible to bring this complaint to this 
service is L. It, not Mr A, was Barclays customer. It may be that Mr A was ultimately entitled 
to the funds held in Ls account. But thats because he was a creditor and/or shareholder of 
L, not because he was a customer of Barclays.
Once L was dissolved in early 2022, it ceased to have any legal identity. That meant that it 
was unable, for example, to operate a bank account or even to refer a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I note however that L was restored as an active company in 
April 2023. That meant that it could apply to have funds released to it from the Treasury 
Solicitor and that it could bring a complaint to this service. I have therefore considered Ls 
complaint.
Mr A says Barclays communication was misleading. Hes pointed to the letter dated                     
23 May 2022 which says: when you are ready, please call us..to let us know what youd 
like to do with your companys account. Mr A says this gave him the impression no action 
would be taken until he had contacted Barclays. But by the time he called the account had 
already been closed and the funds removed.
Having read the letter, I agree that the letter could have been clearer than it was. But overall, 
Im not persuaded this means that Barclays acted unfairly. When a company is dissolved by 
its directors, it is for the directors to ensure that its assets are dealt with before dissolution. I 
appreciate Mr A expected Ls accountant to sort these matters out, but by the time L was 
dissolved this hadnt happened. This meant the funds held to the credit of Ls account were 
bona vacantia  assets left without a legal owner. And, in these circumstances, Im satisfied 
that Barclays acted correctly in closing Ls account when it was notified that L had been 
dissolved. And that it had a legal obligation to transfer Ls assets to the Treasury Solicitor.
Mr A says he informed Barclays on 8 June 2022 that he been in contact with the Treasury 
Solicitor, and hed been told to tell Barclays to stop the transfer. I dont dispute that Mr A 
contacted the Treasury Solicitor. But, as mentioned above, Im satisfied that that from the 
date of dissolution, Ls assets belonged to the Crown. And Barclays had correctly closed Ls account and put the wheels in motion to transfer Ls account balance. As this had happened 
before Mr As call to Barclays, Im not persuaded Barclays was in the position to stop the 
transfer as L was no longer a legal entity and its account had been closed accordingly.
It is unfortunate that Mr A had to apply to have L restored so that he could then deal with the 
account funds on its behalf. And I accept that he or L will have incurred costs in making the 
application to restore, but I do not believe that that was the fault of Barclays. It acted as I 
would have expected in the circumstances. And it follows that I cant fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for any loss of interest incurred.
But having listened to the recordings of the calls between Mr A and Barclays I acknowledge 
he was put on hold for long periods of time, a promised call back was not made, and he was 
given inconsistent information about how he could retrieve Ls funds. So, overall, I find that 
Barclays could have handled things better than it did. Barclays has acknowledged that the 
customer service it provided wasnt of the standard it should have been, and it has offered 
£200 compensation in recognition of this. 
Overall, I think this fairly represents the inconvenience the poor service caused to Mr A in his 
capacity as a director of L. I understand Mr A didnt accept Barclays compensation offer. If 
Barclays hasnt already made the payment to Mr A and he now wishes to accept it, he will 
need to contact Barclays directly.
Responses to my provision decision
Mr A said the total offer made by Barclays was £300.00. And that he had again spoken to 
the Treasury Solicitor, and he was told that Barclays could have held onto the funds and 
contacted them for guidance. He added that this indicated that Barclays do not fully 
understand the procedure when a company is voluntarily dissolved, and it had decided to 
ignore the Treasury Solicitor instructions. 
Mr A also reiterated that Barclays communication was poor, and he said that he felt his 
concerns had been dismissed by Barclays whereas he had been caused immense upset 
and distress over 18 months. 
Barclays didnt comment on my findings in the provisional decision. But when asked to 
confirm that amount of compensation it had offered it said that £100 had been paid to Mr A 
via a cheque which was cashed on 8 June 2022. And since then, a further £200 (2x £100) 
had been offered. So, while the total compensation was £300, only £200 remained to be 
paid.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint including Mr As latest submissions.
But having done so, I see no reason to depart from the overall outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision (as set out above and which forms part of this final decision). But I will 
provide more comments in response to the points Mr A raised in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr A says that Barclays failed to understand the process involved when a company is 
voluntarily dissolved. In this respect I think it would be helpful to explain the government website which provides guidance about when a company is struck off, dissolved, or restored 
says:
 
The companys bank account will be frozen from the date of dissolution. Any credit balance 
in the account and other assets will pass to the Crown - youll have to restore the company 
to get anything back. 
More information can be found here:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/company-strike-off-dissolution-and-restoration.
 
I appreciate that the letter Mr A received wasnt as clear as it should have been  it implied 
that Barclays was waiting on instructions from Mr A before it took any action. But I find the 
information on the government website to be clear. So, Im satisfied that Barclays followed 
the correct process. Once L was dissolved there was no longer a legal entity to operate a 
bank account. So, while Barclays didnt transfer the balance to the Treasurer Solicitor until a 
few days later, Im not persuaded it wasnt in the position to stop the transfer which had been 
initiated because of Ls dissolution. 
I acknowledge that Mr A has said he called the Treasury Solicitor, and he was told that 
Barclays should have contacted it for guidance. But as L had already been dissolved, Im not 
persuaded the Treasury Solicitor would have provided any alternative guidance as to what is 
on the government website.
Overall, I dont find that Barclays acted incorrectly or unfairly in closing Ls company account 
and transferring the credit balance to the Treasury Solicitor. So, I dont hold Barclays liable 
for any inconvenience caused; the expenses incurred because of Mr A having to arrange to 
have L restored; or the loss of interest while this process was completed.  
But I do find that Barclays could have handled things better when Mr A contacted it. In my 
provisional decision I said that the £200 compensation offered in this respect was fair. Upon 
clarifying the matter with Barclays  as mentioned above, the total compensation offer was 
confirmed as £300 of which £100 has already been paid. 
Overall, I think the total compensation offer fairly represents the inconvenience the poor 
service caused Mr A in his capacity as a director of L. Barclays has confirmed that the 
remaining £200 is still open to acceptance. If Mr A now wishes to accept the outstanding 
compensation payment, he will need to contact Barclays directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A  in his 
capacity as Director of L, to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman