DRN-1465897
 
The complaint
Ms Q says Santander UK Plc told her she could remortgage without paying an early 
repayment charge (ERC). She says when she then tried to do so she was told shed had to 
pay an ERC of £4,649.75.
What happened
Ms Q took out this mortgage with Santander in 2014. The interest rate was fixed until 
3 November 2019, and it was subject to an ERC for that same period.
On 4 July 2019 Ms Q spoke to Santander on the phone. The call handler told her as she was 
within four months of the product ending she could look at a new rate. He offered to put her 
through to an adviser, but Ms Q said she didnt have time and would call back.
On 16 July 2019 a large conveyancing firm requested a redemption statement from 
Santander. Upon receiving that Ms Q stopped her remortgage application as the redemption 
statement showed shed incur an ERC. Ms Q complained to Santander. It apologised for 
what had happened and paid £200 compensation. Ms Q didnt accept that. She said shed 
incurred a valuation fee and legal costs for the remortgage application.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint in part and said Santander should pay half of 
those costs. Santander asked us to obtain proof of Ms Qs costs. Whilst Ms Q provided 
some information, she refused to provide everything, including the most important part; the 
offer shed received from the new lender which would set out the upfront costs of the new 
mortgage. Because she didnt provide the information our investigator rejected the 
complaint. Ms Q didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms Q wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. 
Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the 
crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ms Q and Santander were talking at crossed purposes on 4 July. Its clear from the call that the 
Santander call handler was talking about an internal remortgage, otherwise we can look into new 
rates up to four months in advance and him saying he could put Ms Q through to an adviser to 
discuss it now, or she could call back, wouldnt make sense. Ms Q was talking about an external 
remortgage to a new lender, which she couldnt do (without incurring an ERC) until 
November 2019. As there was confusion on this call we look to see what difference it made.
Ms Q says she paid a £310 valuation fee and £325 legal costs for the abortive remortgage. 
Shes sent us screenshots to show those payments being made, but they dont prove the 
payments were for this remortgage. In fact, one of them implies the opposite as the 
screenshots Ms Q has provided (which refer to this remortgage) show the conveyancing was 
being undertaken by a large conveyancing firm that Im aware provide free remortgage legal 
packages for lenders. Whereas the solicitors costs Ms Q has highlighted were paid to a 
local firm of solicitors completely unconnected to the large conveyancing firm.
There are three issues here that dont support Ms Qs claim for compensation:
The conveyancing firm were undertaking the legal work for the remortgage, so why 
would Ms Q pay £325 to a different firm of solicitors for the same remortgage? Ms Q 
refused to provide the invoice from the solicitor so we cant see what the £325 was 
charged for. Having considered everything it seems most likely the legal costs Ms Q has 
highlighted were for a completely different transaction. 
Ms Q shouldnt have incurred a valuation fee and legal costs at all, as the lender she 
was remortgaging to offered special remortgage packages (for all remortgages, not just 
certain products) that meant the valuation would be free, as would the legal work (other 
than a small funds transfer fee).
Ms Q could have simply put the remortgage application on hold from the end of July until 
3 November, when she could remortgage without incurring an ERC.
Ms Q has said Santander is trying dubious tactics to get out of paying but its not at all 
unreasonable for a business to ask for evidence of what Ms Q is saying. Ms Q isnt willing to 
provide that evidence and wouldnt give her authorisation for us to contact her mortgage 
broker to obtain it for her, so our hands are tied. Ms Q has had the opportunity to provide the 
evidence to prove her case and has chosen not to, so Im left with no option but to reject her 
claim for the costs she said she incurred due to the abortive remortgage.
Santander has admitted it and Ms Q were talking at crossed purposes in the call on 4 July, 
and for that it paid £200 compensation. Ms Q could never have remortgaged externally 
before 3 November without incurring an ERC, and Im not satisfied she has demonstrated 
that shes incurred a financial loss. Everything considered Im satisfied thats a fair offer from 
Santander so it doesnt need to do any more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider the £200 already paid by Santander UK 
Plc is more than fair in the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman