DRN-2691091
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about how a claim she made under her buildings insurance policy was 
assessed and the claim decision that was subsequently made. She doesnt think the 
property was monitored for long enough or at the right time of year, for movement to be 
evident. She wants the claim properly investigated.
Ms B is also unhappy with the information shes been given about the investigations that 
have been done and the conclusions reached. This is because her neighbours insurer 
didnt accept it evidenced that movement to the neighbours property had caused damage to 
Ms Bs.
Fairmead Insurance Limited underwrites the insurance policy and is responsible for the 
claim investigation and decision, including actions carried out by third parties on its behalf. I 
will refer to Fairmead throughout, even where activities were undertaken by its agents and 
representatives. 
What happened
Ms Bs insurance policy started in July 2018 and is a perils based policy. This means that 
the policy provides cover for specific perils listed in the policy documents. One of those perils 
is subsidence, which is generally defined as the downward movement of the site on which a 
property sits.
In the early 1980s Ms Bs home was partially underpinned. There are no details available 
from that time as to why the underpinning was done, but Ms B doesnt think it was because 
of subsidence in her property. Rather, Ms B believes her home was underpinned as a result 
of the movement in the attached house on the opposite side to the one now causing 
damage. The rear wall was underpinned to a depth of two metres and the front wall was 
underpinned to a depth of five metres.
In the autumn of 2018 Ms B made a claim for cracking to her home. The attached property to 
the other side of Ms Bs from that which had caused problems in the 1980s (which I will call 
House 2), was at that time suffering from cracking. It was subsequently determined 
House 2 was suffering from subsidence. 
Fairmead arranged for Ms Bs claim to be assessed by a subsidence expert. The initial 
assessment concluded the damage to the house was not being caused by subsidence.
Ms B wasnt happy about Fairmeads conclusions and so another visit to the property was 
arranged. Following that meeting, Fairmead concluded there might be some form of 
movement to the front right corner of the property. As such, it was decided some level 
monitoring should be done on both the front and back of the property. This was to establish if 
there was any downward movement in the walls, i.e. if they were subsiding. The monitoring 
was started at the end of January 2019 and concluded at the end of July 2019. 
In July 2019 Ms B was told the monitoring showed no significant movement and the cause of 
the damage to her home was movement to House 2. That movement was resulting in 
horizontal forces being exerted on Ms Bs home  it was being pulled sideways. Fairmead 
confirmed that type of damage was not covered by the insurance policy.
Ms B was not happy with Fairmeads conclusions. She complained that the monitoring had 
been started prior to a big heave and stopped just when subsidence movement restarted 
due to the season. The front door is once more inoperable from the inside and the crack on 
the lintel has worsened. Ms B also asked Fairmead to provide her with evidence she could 
use to support her claim against her neighbour. Fairmead provided copies of the monitoring 
reports, but said that because it had decided at an early stage there was no subsidence, 
there was no engineering report or site investigations. 
Ms B wasnt satisfied with the situation and complained. Fairmead responded to the 
complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said the format of the loss adjusters report was a standard 
format and accepted by insurers. It said the damage to Ms Bs home was not being caused 
by downward movement of the foundations (subsidence), but rather it was being caused by 
the lateral movement of other properties in the terrace pulling her property sideways with 
them. As such, it was satisfied it was right to decline the claim.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Fairmeads response and asked us to look at her complaint. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and felt the monitoring should have been 
carried out for a longer period covering all seasons. He felt it would have provided a more 
conclusive investigation as to whether there was subsidence at her property. As such, he 
recommended Fairmead revisit Ms Bs home and take further monitoring readings to see if 
anything had changed. He believed this would evidence whether there had been any 
significant movement over the time since the last readings had been taken and determine if 
any further investigations were needed. 
Ms B said that not much data would be gathered by visiting once as there would simply be 
one reading taken to compare with that from the previous year when the monitoring had 
stopped. She pointed out that it would not give an indication of what was happening during 
the seasons with regard to subsidence and heave. This would require level monitoring for at 
least the following six months. 
Fairmead didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It said the amount of monitoring done 
had been enough to establish there was no subsidence in operation and there was no other 
cover available under the policy to provide further monitoring. It asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 January 2021, in which I explained my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would firstly explain that when an insurer or underwriter assesses a claim for damage the 
purpose of its investigations is to establish whether it has any liability under the terms of the 
insurance policy for that damage. In the case of policies such as Ms Bs, that assessment 
will establish whether one of the named perils is responsible for the damage. If it establishes 
that a peril is not responsible, it isnt required to complete further investigations to prove what 
the cause of damage is, or to provide the policyholder with documentation they can use to 
pursue a claim against a third-party or another insurer. 
In this case Fairmead sent out a representative with experience of subsidence claims to 
assess the damage. That expert determined the damage was not consistent with 
subsidence, but to be sure, some monitoring should be done. The monitoring was started at 
the end of the winter and continued through the entire spring and most of the summer. 
Ms B has said this period of monitoring was not enough and it should have been done for 
longer. Clay shrinkage subsidence will occur when moisture levels in the clay reduce and cause it to lose volume. This happens when local vegetation increases uptake of water, the 
weather becomes more clement and there is less rain. That process starts in the spring and 
continues through the summer. Fairmead monitored for the majority of that period. If the 
property was subsiding, the monitoring over the spring and summer would have proved that 
was the case. What it actually proved was that Ms Bs home was not suffering from 
subsidence movement.
Ms B is correct that any desiccated clay would then recover with higher rainfalls over the 
autumn and winter, along with the lower water usage of vegetation during that period. 
However, I dont consider Fairmead needed to prove this happened. There was no 
significant vertical movement in the property during the period subsidence would be 
expected to cause movement, and so Farimead had evidenced there was no subsidence or 
heave affecting the property  no insured peril was actively causing damage. That was the 
limit of its responsibility when considering the claim.
Fairmead has said the damage to Ms Bs home is being caused by lateral forces on her 
home from House 2. It has explained that as House 2 moves downwards, it is effectively 
pulling against the more stable walls of Ms Bs home. When the pressure from that 
movement reaches a certain point, it will cause cracking, which is what appears to have 
happened. I note Ms B has acknowledged when interacting with Fairmead that this is whats 
happened. Unfortunately, that type of mechanism of damage isnt one covered by the 
insurance policy. 
Ms B has now said she thinks there is subsidence damage to the party wall. Fairmead has 
assessed the damage in the property and doesnt consider the damage is consistent with the 
type of damage that would be expected if subsidence was occurring. In the absence of any 
alternative expert opinion or evidence, I cant find its conclusions were wrong. If Ms B 
decides to employ a suitably qualified expert to report on the damage and that report is 
enough to change the outcome of the insurance claim, we would expect Fairmead to refund 
the cost of the report. However, at present, the evidence in this case indicates Ms B doesnt 
have a valid claim under the insurance policy, so I cant find that Fairmead has done 
anything wrong.
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision.
Ms B didnt accept my conclusions. She said the complaint should have been against the 
retail insurer and explained why she thought so. She also made significant comment on the 
suitability of Fairmeads expert, the mechanism of damage occurring to her home and the 
investigations that were undertaken. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs policy is a branded policy provided by what is commonly known as a retail insurer. 
In this case the retail insurer created the policy Ms B has and arranged for an insurer  
Fairmead  to underwrite the policy. As I explained in my provisional decision, Fairmead, as 
the underwriter, is responsible for dealing with claims and claim decisions, even if the retail 
insurer does some of the work for it. Ms B has mentioned that she was told Fairmead only 
dealt with claims under the policy if they were for £25,000 of more  high value claims  and 
as such she doesnt accept that Fairmead is responsible for the handling and decision made 
on her claim. I think some clarification is needed here. It is not unusual for retail insurers, to effectively do 
much of the work in relation to its policies, rather than the administration being done by the 
underwriter. At one end of the scale, as with Ms Bs policy, that involves the retail insurer 
dealing with applications, deciding which ones to accept, keeping all the records relating to 
policies, completing all normal administration of policies and dealing with at least the initial 
stages of all claims made. All of these actions are the responsibility of the underwriter and 
the retail insurer undertakes the activities on the underwriters behalf under what is called 
delegated authority. 
Where retail insurers deal with claims on behalf of the underwriter, there will usually be a 
limit to how much money it is authorised to spend. Based on what Ms B has said shes been 
told by Fairmead, the retail insurer involved in this case has authority to deal with claims up 
to £25,000. If the cost of the claim is anticipated to be more than that, then Fairmead will 
take over the claim. The fact that the retail insurer dealt with Ms Bs claim throughout doesnt 
mean it is responsible for the claim handling or decision and the resultant complaint.
I have noted Ms Bs comments on Fairmeads assessment of her claim, both relating to the 
qualifications of its expert and the lack of independent engineers involvement. I would 
confirm to Ms B that the majority of subsidence claims are assessed by individuals who are 
not engineers  they will be loss adjusters, building engineers and surveyors who have 
specialised in subsidence. An engineer is not needed in most cases, and certainly not in the 
early stages, and it is very rare that an independent engineer becomes involved. That will 
usually only happen where a consumer and insurer have both employed engineers and the 
findings are materially different.
Ms B has expressed an opinion about the mechanism of damage and the adequacy of the 
investigation into her claim. However, her comments dont alter my conclusions. In such 
cases this service relies on expert evidence and, while Ms B doesnt accept Fairmeads 
expert was well enough qualified, that is the only expert evidence we have.  As for the 
adequacy of the investigations, different situations will require different investigations and 
different levels of monitoring. I have seen not evidence from an appropriate qualified 
individual or business that indicates the investigation was inadequate or that the conclusions 
reached were wrong. 
I know that Ms B will be disappointed with my conclusions, but I remain satisfied that 
Fairmead was not wrong in declining her claim, as the cause of damage wasnt one of the 
perils covered by the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Iam required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman