DRN-2310048
The complaint
Mr U complains that DTW Associates Limited trading as Auto Advance Logbook Loans 
(DTW) lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
DTW gave Mr U two loans both of which were secured against vehicles that he owned. Mr U 
borrowed £350 in October 2015 that he agreed to repay in 18 monthly instalments. He 
actually repaid that loan early in February 2016. And Mr U then borrowed £500 in 
August 2017 that he agreed to repay in 12 monthly instalments. He also repaid that loan 
early, in January 2018.
Mr Us complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks DTW had done before agreeing each loan had been proportionate. And she didnt 
think the results of those checks suggested that Mr U wouldnt have been able to sustainably 
repay the loans. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr U didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Us complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time DTW gave these loans to Mr U required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so DTW had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr U. In practice this 
meant that DTW had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr U undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for DTW to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr U. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether DTW did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr U.
There was a gap of around 18 months between Mr U repaying the first loan and asking to 
borrow again. I think that time period was more than enough for DTW to consider Mr Us 
second application independently of the first. So I too will consider the lending decision for 
each loan separately.
DTW gathered some information from Mr U before it agreed the first loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it asked Mr U to provide copies of his 
bank statements so it could independently check what hed said about his finances
Mr U was entering into a significant commitment with DTW. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was reasonable that DTW wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Us financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks DTW did here were 
proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react 
appropriately to the information shown by those checks. So Ive looked carefully at the bank 
statements Mr U gave to DTW to check whether the lenders assessment of them was 
reasonable.
When he asked for the loan from DTW Mr U doesnt appear to have been borrowing to any 
great extent from other lenders. His bank statements dont show evidence of serious 
financial problems such as regular unpaid transactions or escalating levels of overdraft. So 
I think that it was reasonable for DTW to conclude from these proportionate checks that 
there was no reason to decline Mr Us application for the first loan.
As I said earlier Mr U repaid his first loan early. Although I can see that his repayments on 
that loan were at times a little erratic I dont think these, when taken together with the early 
repayment, should have caused any serious concerns to the lender. And a significant period 
of time elapsed before Mr U asked to borrow again.
DTW says that it again asked Mr U for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. 
And is says it checked Mr Us credit file, and reviewed his bank account transactions through 
an open banking arrangement. Given the time that has passed DTW hasnt been able to 
show us the results of the credit check, or what it saw on Mr Us bank account. But Im not aware of any serious problems on either that I think should have caused concerns to the 
lender.
The second loan that Mr U took was slightly larger, and his repayments were slightly larger 
too. But he was only taking this borrowing over a period of a year. So taking everything the 
lender knew about Mr U into account I dont think the checks DTW needed to do would be as 
comprehensive as for the first loan. I think it would have been reasonable for DTW to base 
its lending decision on the information Mr U himself declared about his finances. And that 
information suggested that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr U. But, in summary, I think the 
checks DTW did before agreeing each loan were proportionate. And I havent seen anything 
that makes me think the results of those checks should have led to the loan requests being 
declined. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
DTW Associates Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman