DRN-3664360
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about Vauxhall Finance plc applying unfair charges at the end of his 
agreement.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H was initially charged for excess mileage, but this charged was subsequently 
waived by Vauxhall Finance, so I havent considered this further.
Mr H says the damage to the car could have happened after he returned the car. He 
has noted the car was returned for a new engine in March 2021 and has provided a 
copy of a visual inspection report and a video taken at the time. I have looked at this 
evidence. The video doesnt appear to cover the areas where the damage was 
recorded and while I agree the visual inspection doesnt record any damage to the 
bodywork I do not find that this is enough to say that the damage recorded in the 
inspection undertaken in May 2021 wasnt present at that time. I say this because the 
March visual inspection wasnt undertaken in order to assess fair wear and tear in 
line with the industry guidelines and so it is likely not to have assessed the bodywork 
in the same detail as would have happened in the May inspection. Given the timing 
of the inspection and the damage noted, I find it more likely than not that the damage 
occurred prior to the car being returned. 
The damage recorded on the inspection was a scratch to the front bumper and a 
dent to one of the doors. I have looked at the photographs and can see the damage. 
As our investigator previously explained, we consider the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines when assessing whether damage falls 
within what could be considered normal wear and tear. The BVRLA guidelines say 
that dents under 15mm can be considered wear and tear and are not chargeable, 
provided the paint surface isnt broken. Having looked at the photographs of the dent 
on the door it appears to be larger than 15mm and so I agree it falls outside of the 
acceptable wear and tear guidelines. There are multiple small scratches on the 
bumper and again I accept this damage falls outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines. Because of this I do not find I can say Vauxhall Finance was wrong to 
apply the damage charges.
Mr H said repairs werent carried out. In cases were damage is recorded, Vauxhall 
Finance will apply charges to reflect the cost of this. In some cases, the car may be 
repaired but this isnt a requirement and when repairs arent undertaken the charges 
applied are to reflect the reduction in value due to the damage that is present. 
The V5 document was missing when the car was returned. I note Mr Hs comments 
about not being given the opportunity to have this replaced but the return conditions 
set out in the original agreement and also available on Vauxhall Finances website 
include the need for documentation to be returned. The website also details the 
charge for missing items. Therefore, I find it reasonable that Mr H would have been 
aware of the need to provide the relevant documents on return and as this didnt 
happen, I do not find I can say that Vauxhall was wrong to charge for the missing 
document.
A collection charge was applied. Mr H initially challenged this but then accepted this 
charge. I have considered the charge and noting the actions that were taken in this 
case, I do not find I can say Vauxhall Finance was wrong to apply this charge.
Mr H has said that the cars value was increased by the new engine being fitted and 
that this should be considered when assessing other charges. I understand the point 
he makes but there is no requirement on Vauxhall Finance to take into account the 
value of the new engine. The return conditions needed to be met and the engine was 
replaced before return which is reasonable. However, this doesnt mean that other 
charges for the missing documents or damage cant be applied. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman