DRN-2556711
The complaint
Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in 2005 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
The insurance section on Mr Bs credit card application was completed to show that he 
wanted the PPI. Mr B says the box on the form was pre-ticked, and he thought he had 
to take the cover. Ive noted what Mr B has said. Im mindful that these events took 
place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to safely that the PPI 
box was already ticked when Mr B received the form. I also note that he signed the 
relevant section of the form to confirm he wanted the cover. Without anything else to 
support what Mr B has told me, on balance I think RBS made him aware he had a 
choice about buying the policy. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. Mr B had to decide that for himself.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mr B would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Which means RBS does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman