DRN-4450406
The complaint
Miss N complains that West Bay Insurance Plc mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2009.
Miss N had a comprehensive policy with West Bay for the year from late February 2022.
Unfortunately, in late December 2022, Miss N reported that an accident involving a third 
party had damaged her car and the third partys.
Much of Miss Ns complaint is about acts or omissions by an insurance intermediary acting 
as the policy administrator on behalf of West Bay. Insofar as I hold West Bay responsible for 
such acts or omissions, I will refer to them as West Bays.
Miss N made a claim to West Bay.
By an email dated 7 February 2023, Miss N complained to West Bay about delay in booking 
the car in for repair. She said that if she didnt hear from West Bay that week, she would 
repair the car herself.
By an email dated mid-March 2023, Miss N told West Bay that she had repaired the car.
By a final response dated mid- April 2023, West Bay apologised for unacceptable delays 
and said it was sending Miss N a cheque for £150.00.
Miss N brought her complaint to us straight away.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it was 
unfair to expect a customer to be without a working car for so long while West Bay caused 
delays. He recommended that West Bay should:
1. increase the compensation to £250.00; and
2. pay the repair costs of Miss Ns car plus 8% simple interest (subject to income 
tax) minus the excess upon receiving evidence of the repair costs.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss N 
and to West Bay on 2 November 2023. I summarise my findings:
Despite our investigators requests, Miss N hadnt provided any evidence of the cost 
of repair. Such evidence might include invoices, online account statements or bank 
statements. In the continued absence of such evidence, I wasnt minded to find it fair 
and reasonable to direct West Bay to pay any repair costs.
The delays and shortcomings in West Bays service caused Miss N the upset of not 
getting the services shed paid for - and the inconvenience of making her own 
arrangements. 
Subject to any further information from Miss N or from West Bay, my provisional decision 
was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct West Bay Insurance Plc to pay 
Miss N  in addition to its payment of £150.00  a further £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Miss N accepted the provisional decision, but she said that there is a photograph showing 
damage to the offside headlight.
West Bay accepted the provisional decision.
I see no reason to change my overall view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Miss N some 
upset and inconvenience. From the photographs, I see that the accident damaged the front 
offside corner of Miss Ns car. I can now see damage to the offside headlight. But I find that 
the evidence shows that the car remained driveable after the accident.
From the file, I see that it took West Bay until about 20 January 2023 to investigate Miss Ns 
change of address. I dont hold West Bay responsible for any unreasonable delay up to that 
date.
West Bay then struggled to find a repairer that wasnt too busy to accept the job of repairing 
Miss Ns car. I accept that there were industry-wide shortages at the time.
However, West Bays final response apologised for unacceptable delays. Also, West Bay 
didnt communicate with Miss N as well as it shouldve done.
Miss N has said that she borrowed a car. But she hasnt provided any details  or evidence 
of any cost to her.
From what shes said, I find that Miss N went online and bought replacement parts, then got 
them fitted to her car before its MOT test.
From its MOT history, I see that the cars MOT certificate was due to expire in early March 
2023. The car passed the MOT test on 23 February 2023, with a recorded mileage of about 
157,000.
Putting things right
Most consumers send us information when we ask for it. Despite our investigators requests, 
Miss N hasnt provided any evidence of the cost of repair. Such evidence might include invoices, online account statements or bank statements. In the continued absence of such 
evidence, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct West Bay to pay any repair costs.
That said, I accept that the delays and shortcomings in West Bays service caused Miss N 
the upset of not getting the services shed paid for - and the inconvenience of making her 
own arrangements. So I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct 
West Bay to increase its payment for distress and inconvenience from £150.00 to £250.00. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I  
direct West Bay Insurance Plc to pay Miss N  in addition to its payment of £150.00  a 
further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman