DRN-3516207
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Merlin Financial Services Limited 
(Merlin) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (the 
British Steel Pension Scheme or BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and has caused him a loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, 
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory 
fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes 
when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual 
from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr P approached Merlin in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
was also concerned about the situation with his employer and the BSPS.  
Merlin completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that Mr P was aged 49 married and had three children. He was 
employed full time. He owned his own home subject to a mortgage. Mr and Mrs P also 
owned a second home that was also subject to a mortgage, this was rented out. They held 
around £10,000 on deposit. 
Merlin also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it said was lowest 
medium. 
In respect of his pensions Mr P had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from 
the BSPS on 22 September 2017. The pension at the date of leaving was £15,328.26 and 
the transfer value was £382,406.47. 
Mr P was also a member of his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and both 
him and his employer were contributing a total of 16% of his salary into this. He had some 
other modest DC arrangements. 
Later in November 2017, Merlin advised Mr P to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a fund that it said met his attitude to risk. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were to help him to reduce his working 
hours at age 55 and provide more suitable death benefits. Mr P wanted the flexibility that a 
personal pension could provide. 
Mr P complained in 2021 to Merlin about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that he 
didnt think he had been given full information about this option and he should have been 
advised to join the BSPS2. 
Merlin didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that, overall, the advice fitted in with Mr Ps 
requirements and he understood the potential risk of the transfer. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Merlin pay compensation. He said that he was likely to receive lower 
retirement benefits due to the high investment returns needed to match the benefits he was 
giving up in the DB scheme. And the other reasons Mr P wanted to transfer didnt outweigh 
this. So, it wasnt in his best interests to transfer. Our Investigator thought that Merlin should 
also pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience the advice caused him. 
Merlin initially disagreed and provided detailed reasons why it thought the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests. The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
The regulator has since developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator. And despite initially 
disagreeing with the view, Merlin performed a loss assessment using the specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA. This showed that Mr P hadnt suffered a loss. This was 
subsequently updated to the current calculation quarter date but still showed that Mr P had 
not suffered a loss due to the DB transfer. 
Mr P has seen a copy of the calculations and hes aware that we consider they have been 
performed correctly. A copy has been provided to this service. Mr P hasnt commented, or 
accepted the calculations. And, as far as I can see, Merlin hasnt offered to pay Mr P any 
compensation the distress he was caused. 
As this is the case, and as both sides have requested that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint, Im now issuing a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Merlin is still disputing that unsuitable advice has been given. However, 
nonetheless they have carried out a loss calculation. And Merlin hasnt said if it has agreed 
to pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused as recommended by our 
Investigator. 
However, I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was unsuitable for largely the 
same reasons. And these are:
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Merlin was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ps pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
7.2% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 
5.87% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve 
offered, it was 3.3%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point Merlin instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr P, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And Merlin didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed 
have been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. In fact the 
suitability report makes no mention of the impending changes to the BSPS at all 
which I think is a significant failing. In any event, given what we know about the 
BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided 
from age 65 were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Ps recorded lowest medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.3% for 
15 years to retirement and the regulators low to middle projection rates, I think Mr P 
was likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those hed 
have been entitled to under the BSPS2 by transferring and investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. And indeed the suitability report noted that due to the transfer over 
the long term you will receive a lower income than that provided by the scheme. So, 
for that reason alone a transfer wasnt in his best interests.
Merlin has said that Mr P wanted to access tax-free cash from his pension at age 55. 
The overriding aim seems to be that he would reduce his working hours and use the 
fund to top up his income. This goal was recorded in the written recommendation and 
was clearly discussed at the time. 
It wasnt Merlins role just to put in place what Mr P mightve thought he wanted. Its 
role was to advise him on what was in his best interests. Even if Mr P indicated this 
was something he was considering. But there really isnt enough detail about this aim 
to say if it was feasible or not. 
What I do know is that Mr P was aged 49. So, he had at least six years before he 
would even think about accessing these benefits. He did have two properties worth in 
total around £395,000. But these were subject to mortgages of £345,000 and the fact 
find notes that one, or both, of the mortgages was interest only. There is no 
information about the term or the repayments although I note one or the properties 
was providing a rental income of £6,000 a year. 
These mortgages clearly present a challenge to Mr Ps aim of reducing his working 
hours in the near future. He really needed clear advice about how he would do this 
and manage his mortgage debt. It needed to be clarified what he would need to be 
comfortable to live on in retirement, and how he would obtain this. And if he used his 
pension fund to repay his mortgages (as seemed likely) whether this meant he would 
be left with enough to live off over the longer term. I cant see that this this kind of 
planning took place.  
Overall, as Mr P didnt have a clear plan reduce his working hours prior to age 65 
and he didnt have a pressing need to clear any of his outstanding debt as it appears 
to be affordable, I dont think transferring at this time to obtain flexibility was in his 
best interests. Thats particularly the case given that this would likely lead to him 
having reduced retirement benefits. 
Merlin said Mr P was interested in the more suitable death benefits applicable to his 
circumstances that a transfer offered to his family. But the priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death 
benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in 
the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income or lump sums Mr P drew in his lifetime. And so may not 
have provided the legacy that Mr P may have thought it would. Particularly if some of 
the tax free cash was used to repay his mortgages. 
If Mr P had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Merlin couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence 
Merlin did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Merlin should not have 
encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ps desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on 
the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr P  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr P may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Merlins role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr P with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr P was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr P wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from Merlin was 
unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr P back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. Merlin carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much Mr P 
needs in his pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement benefits that they 
would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to reflect the 
subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. If the calculation shows there is not enough money in Mr Ps pension arrangement to match 
the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to Mr P. If the 
calculation shows there is enough money in Mr Ps pension arrangement, then no redress is 
due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Merlin which are personal to Mr P. These 
include Mr Ps personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ps case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that Mr 
P has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
I think the calculation carried out by Merlin is appropriate in the circumstances and no 
redress for financial losses is due to Mr P. However, I do think Merlin should pay Mr P £200. 
Mr P says that finding out that his pension might not last him in retirement has caused him 
some distress and he felt under pressure at times during the advice process which shouldnt 
have been the case. So, I think the amount the Investigator recommended for this is 
reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Merlin to pay Mr P a sum of £200 for the worry he says 
this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman