DRN-3868598
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly loaded a marker against him with CIFAS
and unfairly closed his account.
What happened
Mr M received a payment into his account and several weeks later, HSBC received a fraud
report from another bank Ill refer to as V. They reported the payment was the result of a
scam. Mr M was asked to provide proof that he was entitled to the funds and visited a
branch to show them text messages concerning the payment.
Mr M explained that the funds were for a property payment, whilst the report from V
indicated the money was for the deposit for a vehicle. HSBC looked at the texts but werent
satisfied they were sufficient evidence that Mr M was entitled to the funds. HSBC later
commented that the texts seemed to refer to a car purchase rather than a discussion about a
rental payment.
Mr Ms account was blocked whilst HSBC looked into the matter and Mr M said it would cost
him money to access his storage facility to retrieve the relevant tenancy agreement that
would support his case that the funds were legitimate.
Unbeknown to HSBC, V had removed the fraud report  effectively cancelling it. About five
months after the report was first lodged (and about four months after it had been cancelled),
HSBC closed Mr Ms account without notice and lodged a marker with CIFAS  a national
fraud prevention agency, in his name. HSBC also considered Mr M had been aggressive to
staff in their branch  something that Mr M denied.
Mr M complained to HSBC about the way theyd handled his account and lodged the marker,
but HSBC didnt change their position. Mr M then brought his complaint to our service for an
independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Shortly after
registering the complaint with our service, CIFAS confirmed the marker had been removed
by HSBC.
After reviewing the complaint details, our investigator didnt think that HSBC had acted
unreasonably and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M disagreed and thought that the marker was loaded maliciously by HSBC. He believed
HSBC must have known the fraud report had been removed by V before they lodged a
marker against him. Mr M wanted a further review of his complaint, which has now been
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS
In order to submit a marker to CIFAS, there are certain pillars to satisfy and the relevant
one here is:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted;
By the time HSBC came to process the marker, the report concerning the allegation of fraud
had been withdrawn. So, in effect, there were no grounds at the point the report was
submitted that HSBC could reasonably rely on to satisfy themselves that fraud or financial
crime had been committed or attempted.
It's apparent that HSBC didnt believe Mr Ms version of events, but its difficult to see how
HSBCs continued investigation concerning the marker was fair to him. Not only does it
currently appear that HSBCs grounds had been retracted by V, but they then took over four
months to complete their investigation. HSBC dont appear to have checked that the report
was still extant at the time they lodged the marker and if they had, they would have realised
it had been rescinded.
As regards Mr Ms belief that the marker was lodged maliciously, I havent found any
evidence to support that. I appreciate HSBC have said they were waiting for information from
Mr M and weight of other work delayed the marker, but I dont think it was reasonable to take
so long to deal with this issue. I dont think HSBC lodged it maliciously, but I do think they
failed to conduct their investigations in a reasonable time and failed to assess the relevant
information necessary to meet the requirements of loading a CIFAS marker.
I understand the marker was removed by HSBC following contact from CIFAS, who
themselves queried the time taken to carry out the investigation. I dont need to further
consider whether the marker should be removed.
Account closure
HSBC took the decision to close Mr Ms account with immediate effect, which was around
the same time as they lodged the CIFAS marker.
There are notes that indicate HSBC considered Mr M was aggressive, but no evidence has
so far been provided about that. Mr M on his part had denied he was aggressive towards the
staff.
Following the issue of the fraud complaint, Mr M was able to use the account normally until
he reduced the total to a few pounds. It was then left until it was closed several months later.
Whilst I think that HSBC could have closed the account differently  I dont think the
immediate closure caused Mr M significant difficulties as hed already stopped using it.
In summary, Ive considered everything that HSBC has said in relation to its concerns here 
but I dont consider that theyve provided enough evidence to show that theyve acted fairly
and reasonably here. Mr M hasnt been specific about the impact this issue has had on him,
but in his most recent communications he wished only for a review of his complaint and an
apology from HSBC. So, at this stage Id only be asking HSBC to apologise to him, where
Ive reviewed the complaint. But if there is any further impact hed like me to consider, then
he can provide further detail and evidence of this in response to this decision.
I invited Mr M and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me toconsider before issuing my final decision. HSBC didnt have anything further to add and Mr 
M commented that:
HSBC damaged his creditworthiness, personal finances and as a single director of a 
limited company, his business finances.
They caused stress, anxiety, embarrassment, and financial loss.
HSBC ruined my business and my credibility.
Mr M remained critical of how HSBC used the CIFAS system.
I wrote to Mr M to ask him to provide details of his loss and the impact that the marker had 
on him that I could consider. He provided evidence of some loans that hed been refused 
whilst showing that his credit remained strong. Mr M said he couldnt quantify the loss and 
he continued to argue that the marker also affected his business. 
After considering the additional evidence supplied by Mr M, I wrote to both parties and said:
Mr M has provided evidence of a failed vehicle loan application which was made whilst the
marker was in place. I asked Mr M to provide his credit file to establish his overall
creditworthiness. Mr Ms credit file didnt contain any obvious reasons why he wouldnt be
considered for a loan. I appreciate its difficult to be certain why the bank who considered the
loan turned him down because they would have their own criteria to satisfy. But, the 
existence of an active CIFAS marker probably wouldnt have helped Mr M acquire the loan.
Mr M also referred to a further issue with another bank that he believes is the result of the 
CIFAs marker, although the specific details werent provided.
Mr M did also provide additional details concerning a loan application for a business. Here
though the business is a limited company, so I cant take the application into account as 
theyre a separate legal entity.
Ive thought about the length of time the marker was in place and the ongoing impact caused 
to Mr M. Its apparent from the lack of credit available to him that he was likely subject to its 
effects even though he was unaware of it for some time. My understanding is that Mr M 
became aware of the marker several months before it was finally removed. So, taking all 
these factors into account, Im currently minded to award Mr M a payment of £500 for the 
handling of the marker by HSBC and the impact this had on him.
I now invite Mr M and HSBC to send me any further information or evidence theyd like me to 
consider before I make my final decision.
HSBC didnt have anything further to add and Mr M responded:
He remained of the opinion that the impact on his business should be taken into 
account because hes the sole director and HSBC treated his limited company the 
same as a sole trader.
The inability to obtain credit has affected his ability to make a living.
The award of £500 was out of touch with reality.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M thinks that HSBC should also be responsible for the failure of his limited 
company to obtain credit. But, as Ive explained, his company is a separate entity, even 
though Mr M is the sole director. The CIFAS marker was loaded against Mr M as an 
individual and not against his company. As this complaint is brought by Mr M through his 
relationship with HSBC as an individual  then our rules mean that I can only consider the 
impact on him in this way.
My powers to make awards are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA), the relevant section says:
s229 Awards
an award against the respondent of such amount as the ombudsman considers fair 
compensation for loss or damage suffered by the complainant (a money award).
What that means here is that Mr M is the complainant, rather than his limited company. 
Any award must be made based on his experiences and the impact the marker had on him. 
The DISP rules which this service operates under explains that to be an eligible complainant  
then a complaint must arise from matters relevant to certain relationships with the business 
being complained of (DISP 2.7.6R). Here, Mr M has such a relationship with HSBC, but his 
business doesnt.
Mr M has said that its difficult to quantify his losses  and I can appreciate that. But he has 
said that he was refused credit as a result of the CIFAS marker. Lenders will consider a wide 
variety of factors before agreeing to lend and while the CIFAS marker will likely have had an 
impact on any applications hes made  its difficult for me to fairly say that this would have 
been the sole reason he was declined for credit. 
Lenders will consider a wide variety of factors before agreeing to lend to someone based on 
their own criteria. So, there are any number of reasons the lenders here may have declined 
Mr Ms applications. The CIFAS marker may have had an impact but equally, while Mr Ms 
credit file clearly shows he is a responsible borrower on the whole, there are some arrears 
showing on a credit card which may have impacted on these lenders decisions too. So, I 
dont think I have sufficient evidence to say that HSBC can be held responsible for these 
lenders declining his applications here where there simply isnt enough evidence for me to 
do so.
Id also note that one of his declined applications for credit was related to car finance. The 
credit file shows that a successful loan for a vehicle was made about three months later. So, 
whilst I accept that Mr M was, in this particular situation, inconvenienced and no doubt 
further embarrassed by the refusal to provide credit, his application to credit was eventually 
successful.
But HSBCs actions in loading a marker against Mr M have, following the evidence hes 
provided, had an impact on him. He explained how the marker affected him, including the 
anxiety, stress and embarrassment he felt. Its understandable given the failures of his 
various attempts to obtain credit and the steps he had to take to try and get HSBC to remove 
the marker, so I think its reasonable to make an award to Mr M.
I explained my thinking about the award which is set out above and Ive not seen anything 
that would change my mind. I understand Mr M will be disappointed with this award, but I 
think its both fair and reasonable to award Mr M £500 for the impact the marker had on him. 
To be clear, this award is related to the distress and inconvenience he suffered by the loading of the marker and isnt linked to any form of award for any losses he considers he 
suffered. 
Putting things right
HSBC should now make a payment of £500 to Mr M for their handling of the CIFAS marker 
and the impact this had on him. As the marker has already been removed, I dont need to 
further consider that aspect of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and theyre 
instructed to settle this complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman