DRN-4248618
The complaint
Mrs E complains about adverse information Next Retail Limited put on her credit file in 
respect of a running account credit agreement she took out with it.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties here  so I will summarise them and 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In summary, Mrs E says that Next maintained a default on her credit file when it should have 
dropped off.
Next admits it made a mistake and apologised and offered Mrs E £500. Mrs E didnt think 
that was enough. She said that because of the mistake her family lost a mortgage deal and 
her partner took out a more expensive one in his sole name. She also said the whole 
situation has caused her a great deal of distress and impacted the wellbeing of her son who 
is disabled. 
The matter came to this service. Our investigator thought that £900 was a reasonable 
amount of compensation for what had occurred here. Next agreed with this.
Mrs E indicated she would accept the £900 but also a write off of the debt she had with Next 
(of around £700) in addition to this. Next didnt agree.
Mrs E has said she wants an ombudsman to look at things. In summary, she said she has 
lost out financially due to Nexts actions and that Next has blamed her mortgage broker so it 
can pass the buck for its actions (including the impact on the mental health of her son).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence put forward by the parties but I wont comment on all of it  
this isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role in resolving disputes informally.
Next has admitted it made a mistake in not removing the default from Mrs Es credit file 
when it should have and Mrs E agrees. So I dont think I need to spend time in looking into 
whether it did make a mistake in the first instance  I accept that it did.
From what I can see Mrs E got in touch with Next to make it aware of the issue and it then 
removed the default within about a week. However, it appears that about two weeks later the 
default was reloaded to Mrs Es credit file. Mrs E notified Next and it confirmed that it had 
now removed it and put in place an improved method to stop it reloading again.
All in all it appears that the time from Mrs E raising the issue to its resolution took about four 
weeks. During this time I am in no doubt that Mrs E (and her family) were caused 
considerable distress particularly as Mrs E has stated it was a time of re-mortgaging. 
Mrs E has submitted persuasive evidence from the mortgage broker to show that the default 
from Next affected a re-mortgage application with a particular lender. Mrs E has previously 
stated that the losses flowing from this are going to be around £26,000 over several years.
I dont think it is fair to make an award for specific financial losses relating to the re-mortgage 
here because:
Mrs E has not submitted persuasive evidence quantifying a specific financial loss 
through re-mortgaging  such as details of the terms of the deal applied for and the 
one that was eventually agreed; and
Mrs E has not persuasively explained how it wasnt possible to mitigate any claimed 
loss considering Next resolved the matter relatively quickly and around 6 months 
prior to the expiry of the previous mortgage deal.
For completeness it is worth noting that (in any event) the new mortgage deal is said to be in 
Mrs Es partners name only  which poses potential difficulties here as I am only able to 
make awards in respect of financial losses suffered by Mrs E who is the customer of Next 
and eligible complainant to this service.
Despite what I have said above I consider that compensation for distress and inconvenience 
is certainly appropriate here. Mrs Es correspondence to Next about getting the matter 
resolved clearly shows her significant frustration and distress about what has occurred. 
When she first contacts Next she also explains that the situation is having an impact on a 
mortgage application and her family, particularly her disabled son. 
From what Mrs E says in her correspondence it seems that Next knew Mrs E had a disabled 
son before this problem. But even if that were not the case it was specifically put on notice 
about the impact the situation was having on him when Mrs E got in touch. Yet, as I have 
explained, although Next resolved the issue relatively quickly it took longer than it should 
have due to it reloading the default in error yet again. This has certainly compounded and 
unnecessarily aggravated the situation here - causing further distress that Next at that point 
was aware was having a wider impact on Mrs Es family.
When thinking about appropriate compensation I take into account the scale of awards set 
out on our website. I note that it says an award of over £750 and up to around £1,500 could 
be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused substantial distress, upset and worry. I 
think that this category broadly fits the situation here because Mrs E was clearly very worried 
about the impact on her mortgage deal (and the possible implications about affordable 
housing more widely)  and extremely distressed and upset about the knock on impacts the 
situation was having because of the particular needs of her son and how he reacts to certain 
situations. 
Mrs E has proposed an even higher award here. However, in deciding the award I think it is 
fairly tempered because although Mrs E has described the impact on her son of the stress 
and worry caused in the household I am not able to make an award for his distress. That 
isnt to say that Mrs E would not have experienced additional distress and worry by seeing 
the impact on her son  and I have of course taken this into account. But the award will 
naturally be lower here because it is only in respect of Mrs Es experience  not her son.  
I also note that despite a substantial short term impact on Mrs E (and a false start and 
further inconvenience through the reload of the default) the situation was resolved relatively 
quickly overall and with what appear to be sincere apologies from Next. Based on the 
current evidence (and considerations I have mentioned already) it is difficult to fairly hold 
Next responsible for the lasting impact Mrs E has touched on here.However, bringing this back around  the impact of the mistake on Mrs E here is certainly 
substantial and I am not trying to diminish that. May I take this opportunity to say that I am 
very sorry to hear about the struggles she has described, including those with her son and 
his wellbeing. I wish her family well for the future.
So, for the reasons I have given (and acknowledging that this is not a science and my role 
here is to resolve disputes informally) I think the £900 put forward as compensation is fair 
and reasonable here. While I appreciate this is not everything Mrs E wants to get in 
compensation it is now up to her if she wants to accept it as a way to resolve her complaint 
with Next.
Putting things right
I understand that Next has paid Mrs E some of the compensation already (£500)  if that is 
the case then it should deduct this from the amount it has to pay if Mrs E accepts my 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Next Retail Limited to pay Mrs E £900 in compensation 
(subject to any deduction as set out above).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman