DRN-3905335
The complaint
Mr R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc have failed to resolve a problem with his mobile banking 
app.
What happened
Mr R complains the chat system in the app always displayed alerts suggesting he has 
unread messages that require his attention. Mr R told us his main problem is the red dot is 
shown continually and he is forever concerned that theres a chat message relating to his 
payments or a fraud alert on the chat or something hes missing.
Mr R was unhappy with HSBCs final response (FRL) to the complaint so referred the 
matter to us. That FRL told Mr R his was an isolated problem and the IT team could find not 
issues. HSBC also told him it would raise another IT request to complete a further and more 
detailed investigation and would update Mr R as soon as it heard but couldnt give Mr R a 
timescale on this.
Our investigator issued two views. In the first he thought HSBC had investigated the matter 
and this seemed like an isolated issue which it had continually tried to resolve but was 
unable to, so it could be a user issue. And he didnt think the inconvenience to Mr R 
warranted any more than the compensation already paid by HSBC. 
Mr R asked to escalate the matter as he hadnt seen any evidence that HSBC had tried to 
sort the issue. After further information from both parties the investigator issued a second 
view. He thought HSBC had now fully investigated the matter and, after providing 
information on what had been done, an exact reason for the problem couldnt be found. But 
it was suspected this was a bug for which there may be a fix in 2023. And as this service 
didnt have the power to ask a business to implement a new technical process the 
investigator thought HSBCs further investigation, explanation and offer to pay an additional 
£25 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr R disagreed and the matter has come to me for an investigation and final decision. I 
asked HSBC for further information about the chat facility and it responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall outcome reached by the investigator in his second 
view. Ill explain my reasons for thinking that.  
Mr R has been clear from the outset that this issue specifically in relation to the chat facility 
no other messages within the app. HSBC have confirmed in response to my further 
questions that the chat facility is only ever customer initiated. I appreciate Mr R feels the red 
indicator remaining on in the chat function indicates he needs to take some form of action 
and that there may be a chat message relating to a payment hes made or a fraud alert, so 
he feels forever concerned. But as this chat is only ever customer initiated, unless Mr R has 
raised an issue via this chat facility, it seems to me theres no need for him to constantly 
monitor this. 
HSBC told us it will not use chat as a way of notifying the customer of an issue and there are 
no circumstances in which a customer would get a notification on the chat part of the app. It 
said that instead it would use secure email, letter or text alerts to notify a customer of a 
security, fraud or other critical issue. And it said the issue was urgent they may phone the 
customer. So, although I see Mr R says hes forever concerned and questions himself when 
logging in, I would hope this information about the chat facility alleviates this worry.  
I can look in to concerns about complaint handling if its ancillary to the business activity 
being complained of. And Im satisfied that is the case here. HSBC told Mr R in the FRL it 
was referring the matter back to IT. But he heard nothing. And its now clear that we only 
have the current information about the nature of the problem and the potential forthcoming 
fix after HSBCs further investigations, prompted after the investigators first view. So, I can 
appreciate Mr Rs concerns about how HSBC have looked at this complaint. And I think the 
way in which HSBC dealt with his concerns initially added to Mr Rs distress and 
inconvenience here. 
The information now before me satisfies me the matter has now been fully investigated by 
HSBC and explained. Were an informal dispute resolution service not the regulator. I dont 
have the power to ask a business to change their commercial processes, policies or ask 
them to implement a new technical process. So, overall, I think, the compensation thats 
been offered along with an explanation of the problem after a full investigation is a fair and 
reasonable response here. So, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything further and Ill 
leave it to Mr R to decide whether he will accept the further payment of £25 it has offered.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman