DRN-3331326
The complaint
Miss W complains that a used car she acquired with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) 
provided by Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) is of unsatisfactory quality and she 
wants to reject it or receive a replacement vehicle.
What happened
Miss W got this car in September 2019 from a dealer (that Ill refer to as C). In January 2020 
she noticed the engine was overheating and took the car to a third party garage (that Ill call 
W) for checks. W found:- 
the radiator was leaking
a locking wheel nut was missing
there was water in the boot due to damage to the rear quarter
the offside front headlamp had a broken bracket with missing bolt
the steering was notchy
the front chassis area had been welded in the past; and
the airbag light on the dash was on meaning the airbag might be inoperative.
Miss W was upset that she hadnt been told the car was involved in a collision in the past 
and she contacted C because she thought repairs hadnt been carried out properly. C asked 
for a condition report and Miss W obtained a vehicle health check (VHC) from a main dealer 
(that Ill call E) in January 2020. The VHC indicated the following needed investigation:-
air bag light on dashboard
CAT blowing as its been previously welded
an oil leak from the engine
wheel alignment/geometry as tyres wearing heavily on inner edge
off side front headlight bracket broken
handbrake was loose
a dent in near side front light
the rear bumper needed a smart repair.
C didnt think everything on the list was a fault/likely to have been present when the car was 
supplied but offered to pay for wheel alignment. Miss W didnt think that would resolve 
everything so she complained to Startline and they arranged for independent expert to 
inspect the car in February 2020. 
The expert road tested the car over three miles at varying speeds and found it drove as 
expected with no excessive pull to either side, steering alignment was correct and road 
holding was acceptable. The expert said the current issues were:-
the left rear quarter panel was distorted causing poor fitting of the lamp unit;
the left rear bumper corner was insecure with possible damage to fixings;
the right front headlamp was slightly insecure as the top mount is missing and 
requires a replacement headlamp;
left rear corner of the vehicle had not been repaired leaving the left rear quarter panel 
distorted, with the lamp unit not fitting correctly;
left rear bumper corner also requires attention as it is insecure; and
the front tyres did not show any abnormal wear but skipped on manoeuvring which 
wasnt unusual and would probably rectify itself when a replacement tyre was fitted.
The expert couldnt say if the minor impact to the left rear lamp area was present at the 
outset. But, if it was, he thought this would have been visible to even a lay person checking 
the car before purchase. He found signs that some of the bodywork had been filled and 
painted and, on checking under the car, the left front chassis rail was repaired with a weld to 
the front section after an impact. The expert didnt think this repair was recent - based on the 
corrosion to the reassembled components  and he didnt consider the impact damage was 
an issue if the repairs were satisfactory. He said a visual inspection alone would not reveal if 
any misalignment is present - so it was impossible for W to have confirmed this with any 
accuracy. He recommended a four wheel alignment should be carried out to check and, if 
misalignment was found to be excessive, the car may need placing on a jig for realignment.
Startline accepted the experts conclusions and acknowledged some of the issues identified 
would have been present when the car was supplied to Miss W. It was satisfied that the 
dealer had already offered to carry out the relevant repairs - which it thought was a fair 
remedy - and offered to review the matter again if those repairs were unsuccessful. Startline 
didnt think it should have to do more than that but Miss W didnt agree. She wants to reject 
the car or be provided with a replacement and she referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators considered the evidence and thought the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied the car was involved in an accident before it was supplied and likely 
had faults present at that stage. He didnt think a reasonable person would expect to 
experience so many issues in a car of this age, cost and mileage. He thought the faults 
present were probably caused by the previous impact and he was satisfied, on balance, that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The investigator didnt think the repairs offered were guaranteed to sort things out. He 
considered Miss W should be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund. He 
acknowledged she was able to use the car from September 2019 but he didnt think it was 
performing as it should have been during that time and recommended Startline should 
refund 10% of each monthly payment for impaired use. He thought Startline should also pay 
Miss W £200 compensation for associated upset and inconvenience.Startline didnt agree. It said (in summary)
the expert confirmed that the impact occurred some time before the car was supplied 
to Miss W and this wasnt an issue, providing the vehicle was repaired to a 
satisfactory standard;
Miss W had the car for more than 30 days and less than six months after supply 
when issues first appeared and the dealer should have the opportunity to repair - in 
line with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA);
Miss W had fair use of the car and she was offered a reasonable resolution to her 
complaint; and
if she has more issues after the car is repaired, she would have the option to 
exercise her final right to reject then, under the CRA.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. He thought repairs at this stage 
would cause significant inconvenience to Miss W and she should be able to exercise the 
final right to reject. He recommended Startline should end the HPA, collect the car and 
refund the deposit as well as 10% of each monthly payment (as set out in his view) for loss 
of/impaired use, pay Miss W £200 for distress and inconvenience and remove any adverse 
information from her credit file.
Startline didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. Miss W also told us 
that she had paid to have the radiator replaced and she wanted this taken into consideration.
Having considered the evidence available, I was minded to uphold this complaint but I was 
inclined to reach a different outcome to the investigator. I issued a provisional decision on 9 
February 2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) 
before I made my final decision. What I decided provisionally decided  and why  is set out 
below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is here- I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. This means I consider whats most likely to have 
happened based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I want to assure both parties that Ive considered everything thats been said and sent to us. 
If I dont address every point thats been made, its not because I havent thought about it 
but, in this decision, I intend to focus on what I think are the key issues. Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every single argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this  
and it reflects the informal nature of our dispute resolution service, which is a free alternative 
to the courts.
Miss W brings her complaint to our service because Startline supplied this car under a HPA. 
And Im considering Startlines obligations arising out of that finance agreement in this 
decision. I dont apply the law but I must have regard to relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) good 
industry practice, at the relevant time. Im satisfied that the CRA is relevant here and, under 
the CRA, theres an implied term that the car would be of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. The quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. And 
what amounts to satisfactory quality will vary according to individual circumstances.I think this car needed to meet the standard that a reasonable person would expect  taking 
into account its age, price and mileage at the point of supply. The car was six years old, cost 
just over £4,300 and had 90,350 miles on the clock when Miss W got it. As such, I think a 
reasonable person would accept that some parts would be worn and likely need to be 
repaired or replaced sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid for a used car 
compared to the price of a brand new vehicle. So, whilst Startline is responsible for any 
faults that are likely to have been present at the point of supply, Im unable to reasonably 
hold Startline liable for wear and tear or general maintenance issues.
What went wrong with the car
It looks as if Miss W was able to drive the car for some four months or so without any 
significant issue. Then, in January 2020, she took it to W for checks because the engine was 
overheating. I understand it was a shock for Miss W to be told by W that the car had a front 
impact in the past and, amongst other things, the chassis had been welded. I have no doubt 
this was concerning for Miss W but the fact that this car was involved in some sort of 
accident in the past doesnt necessarily mean it was of unsatisfactory quality.
The dealer has supplied a HPI check that shows the car was not previously the subject of an 
insurance write off or considered by any insurer to be beyond economic repair. And Im 
satisfied that none of the condition reports Ive seen suggest that the earlier impact and 
repairs rendered the car unsafe to drive or unroadworthy in some other way. I dont mean to 
suggest that what amounts to satisfactory quality here is simply whether the car was 
roadworthy and safe - I think Startlines obligations were somewhat higher than that. So, Ive 
gone on to consider carefully the evidence from the checks undertaken in order to try and 
identify what, if anything, was wrong with the car when Miss W got it.
Im satisfied the following issues were identified (across paperwork from W, E and the 
expert) in the early part of 2020:-
1. handbrake was loose;
2. a locking wheel nut was missing;
3. the airbag light on the dash was on meaning the airbag might be inoperative;
4. there was water in the boot due to damage to the rear quarter, rear bumper needs 
smart repair, left rear quarter panel distorted causing poor fitting of lamp unit;
5. the offside front headlamp had a broken bracket with missing bolt/dent in the 
nearside front light
6. the radiator was leaking;
7. the front chassis area had been welded in the past and cat blowing as it had 
previously been welded; and
8. the steering was notchy/wheel alignment/geometry. 
In order to hold Startline responsible for any of these issues, I would need to be satisfied that 
its more likely than not a particular issue was present in September 2019  when Miss W 
got the car  and this amounts to a fault in a vehicle of this age, price and mileage. 
I can see the car passed an MOT in September 2019, just before it was supplied to Miss W, 
with no advisories. Im satisfied this test would have checked things like emissions and 
ensured that the lights were working properly as well as the handbrake - and the airbag 
management light would not have been illuminated. This is supported by a 128 point used 
vehicle check the dealer arranged pre-sale that confirms the car was road tested and 
inspected visually by a third party and the lights and handbrake, amongst other things, were 
working as they should. So Im not persuaded, on balance, that items 1-3 are likely to be 
faults that were present when the car was supplied.On the current evidence, I cant be certain when the external damage to the vehicle 
occurred. The independent expert thought the damage to the rear  if it was present on 
supply - would certainly have been obvious to Miss W. Looking at the photographs in his 
report, Im inclined to agree. 
I cant see that Miss W raised any concern about any external damage at the point of sale - 
or over the 3,000 miles or so that she was able to drive the car by January 2020. And this 
doesnt seem to have caused a significant issue after that  given Miss W was able to cover 
another 10,000 miles or so up to the last MOT earlier this year. On balance, I am not 
presently persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that any external damage  if it was 
present at the point of supply - was significant enough to amount to a fault in a vehicle of this 
age, price and mileage.
I can see why Miss W thinks the leaking radiator (item 6 above) must have been due to 
damage from the previous impact - given the apparent location of the impact and the radiator 
itself. But, Im satisfied that she was able to drive the car for about four months or so and 
over 3,000 miles after supply. I think it seems unlikely she would have been able to do so if 
the radiator was damaged in the earlier impact - which occurred some time before she got 
the car, based on the experts observations. And I think its reasonable to give some weight 
to the experts findings in this situation. Im satisfied he appears to have appropriate 
qualifications and experience, his report seems fairly thorough and his conclusions make 
sense. 
I dont think its out of the ordinary for a car of this age and mileage to have radiator issues 
as the result of general wear and tear. We asked W  who replaced the radiator in August 
2020 - if these issues were likely to have resulted from the earlier impact and W couldnt 
confirm that. Taking all the available evidence into account, I cant fairly find its likely the 
radiator leaks were due to a fault that was present at the point of supply. And I cant 
reasonably hold Startline responsible for this issue.
As Ive explained above, I dont think the fact that theres evidence of a previous impact and
the chassis was welded must, of itself, mean this car was of unsatisfactory quality. Im
satisfied the expert checked under the car and inspected the chassis. He doesnt seem to
have seen any evidence that the work undertaken was not to an appropriate standard. He 
does acknowledge however that there might be an ongoing issue as regards wheel
alignment - which would need further investigation and possibly repairs. Startline seems to 
accept that any misalignment present would probably have been there when the car was 
supplied to Miss W. And, given the findings of the two third party garages and the expert  I 
think that seems likely. 
On the current evidence, I cant be certain how significant any mis-alignment is likely to be. I 
note W found the steering notchy and E thought tyres were wearing heavily on the inner 
edge whereas the expert found no excessive movement on his test drive  although he 
acknowledged the tyres were skipping on manoeuvring. On balance, I think its more likely 
than not the car had an alignment issue at the outset and it was of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The CRA sets out the remedies available in this situation. Broadly speaking, where goods 
supplied arent of satisfactory quality, a consumer has a right to reject within the first 30
days. I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss W sought to reject the car under this
short term right to reject. And, after the first 30 days, the CRA provides the consumer with
a right to repair - provided that can be done in a reasonable time and without significant
inconvenience to the consumer  with a final right to reject after that.The expert recommends that this car should have the wheel alignment checked and
repaired, if appropriate. I have no reason to think that these repairs wont be successful.
And, as far as I can see, Startline offered to arrange this not long after Miss W first raised
her complaint. 
I dont think repairs would have caused Miss W too much inconvenience at that
stage. I appreciate she has explained that she didnt receive Startlines correspondence
(containing the experts report in March 2020) when it was sent to her. But, Im satisfied that
Miss W did receive the accompanying email from Startline (containing a password to access
the experts report). And I think it would have been reasonable for her to have contacted
Startline then if she was unable to access the associated correspondence, which was clearly
referred to.
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for
Startline to have the opportunity to arrange for appropriate repairs here. To be clear, the
repairs should be carried out within a reasonable time, at no cost and with as little
inconvenience as possible to Miss W. The repairs should also be undertaken in accordance
with the experts recommendations - in that a four wheel alignment should be carried out to
check if any misalignment is present and, if misalignment is found to be excessive, then the
car should be placed on a jig for realignment. If the repairs required turn out to take too long 
or be unsuccessful, then Id expect Startline to review the matter again and allow Miss W to 
exercise her final right to reject, as appropriate.
I have given some thought to what the investigator says about impaired use. I cant see that
Miss W reported any problems with the car before January 2020. And she seems to have
continued to drive it after that  the most recent MOT shows the car had over 105,000 miles
on the clock. So Im not presently persuaded that there are reasonable grounds to find Miss
W should be entitled to a refund of monthly payments in this situation. 
I accept misalignment may have caused premature wear to tyres however. And, if Miss W 
had to replace tyres early - up to and including March 2020 (when repairs were offered) - I 
might be minded to find she should have that cost refunded. It is open to Miss W to provide 
more information about this in response to my provisional decision and Ill take that into 
account in my final decision.
I am satisfied that Miss W is likely to have experienced some upset and inconvenience as a
result of what happened here. I can see shes been worried and had to take the car to
several garages for checks, amongst other things. I think it is fair for Startline to pay Miss W
£200 compensation to reflect that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or evidence by 23 February 2022. I explained that I would review all the evidence
available after that and make my final decision.
Both parties have now responded. Theyve accepted my provisional decision with nothing 
more to add. And I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions, in 
the circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive given, I remain of the view it is fair and reasonable for Startline to have 
the opportunity to arrange for appropriate repairs. These should be carried out within a reasonable time, at no cost and with as little inconvenience as possible to Miss W in 
accordance with the experts recommendations - in that a four wheel alignment should be 
carried out to check if any misalignment is present and, if misalignment is found to be 
excessive, the car should be placed on a jig for realignment. 
If the repairs required take too long or are unsuccessful, Id expect Startline to review the 
matter again and allow Miss W to exercise her final right to reject, as appropriate. I consider 
Startline should also pay Miss W £200 compensation for associated distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Startline Motor 
Finance Limited to arrange for the car to be repaired as set out above and pay Miss W £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman