DRN-2473381
The complaint
Miss W complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim under her 
car insurance policy.
Miss W is being represented in this complaint by her father, Mr W. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Miss W. 
What happened
In April 2020 Miss W had an accident in her car and made a claim under her policy which is 
underwritten by Calpe.
Calpe turned down the claim saying that Miss W had been using her car for work (or 
commuting) when her policy only provided cover for social, domestic and pleasure use. 
Miss W brought her complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. After looking at the evidence they thought Calpe had acted fairly when turning 
down the claim. Miss W remained unhappy, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has provided a lot of evidence about her claim and why she thinks Calpe has acted 
wrongly when declining the claim. I want to assure Miss W that Ive read and carefully 
considered everything thats been provided. If I dont mention a particular point its not 
because I havent considered it; I have. Ive summarised and condensed what happened 
which reflects the informal nature of our service.
To start with Ive looked at Miss Ws policy to see what is covered. The policy schedule says:
Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes only excluding travel to and from work or 
study, any business work.
This is the level of cover Miss W selected during the application process and I think its clear 
that the policy doesnt cover work or business usage of any kind. 
When making the claim Miss W was asked what she uses the car for; and her reply was 
work and social.
When talking about the circumstances of what happened Miss W said that she was coming 
back from gardening and concreting some steps and stuff .. working. 
Miss W also confirmed that she travels to multiple locations for work.
Based on this information Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Calpe to decline the 
claim. Miss W told Calpe on two occasions that she was using the car for work proposes 
which isnt covered under the policy. 
Miss W says that Calpe shouldnt rely on evidence given in the telephone call as she was 
attending hospital at the time for injuries received in the accident and was in pain with some 
concussion. Calpe wasnt told that Miss W was in hospital and they checked that she was 
able to talk at the time. It wasnt until later, after the claim had been declined, that Miss W 
said she was actually in hospital at the time of the call. Ive listened to the call and am happy 
that Calpe can rely upon the information they were told.
In her dealings with our investigator Miss W disputes the definition of the word work saying 
she meant that she was doing some tasks that required effort rather than being paid for 
work. As a bricklayer Miss W also says that the terminology refers to concrete work and the 
making good or forming with concrete which doesnt imply paid work. In the context of the 
questions that Miss W was asked Im not persuaded this definition applies, and I think Calpe 
can rely on the usual commonly accepted definition of work. 
Miss W says that she gets public transport to her usual place of work in London and that the 
accident happened on a Sunday while she was on furlough. I dont doubt any of these 
things. However the policy doesnt cover work or business of any kind, and Miss W told 
Calpe more than once that she was using the car for work so I think its fair they rely on what 
they were told.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied Calpe acted fairly and reasonably when 
turning down the claim. Thats not to say that what happened hasnt taken an emotional and 
financial toll on Miss W; it clearly has, however I think Calpe applied the policy terms in a fair 
way based on the evidence. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman