DRN-1585080
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Well Dunn Limited mis-sold him a commercial vehicle insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy through Well Dunn - a broker - to 
provide insurance for his vehicle valeting and detailing business. Around 11 months later 
he was involved in an accident in a customer's vehicle  where he scraped the driver's door 
while pulling into their premises. So he claimed on his insurance policy for the damage. But 
the insurer declined the claim as it said that he was driving within 400 metres of a trade 
premise. And it said that the terms of the insurance policy don't cover losses to customers' 
vehicles in these circumstances.
Mr H complained to Well Dunn that it had mis-sold him the insurance policy. He said that he 
does valeting anywhere, so he doesn't think Well Dunn should have sold him a policy with 
this exclusion.
Well Dunn said that Mr H had said he did valeting and detailing, but it said that he didn't 
explain anything further than this. It said that its agent correctly established Mr H's needs 
regarding indemnity and cover for his policy and came to an agreement with Mr H about the 
level of cover required. It said that at no point during this phone call did Mr H advise that he 
needed to ensure that he was covered for damage or accidents at trade premises.
Well Dunn said that it was Mr H's responsibility to ensure he read and understood his policy 
documents to understand whether the cover met his needs and to ensure he abided by the 
terms of his policy. It said that it's not common industry practice to list all the general 
exclusions on a policy during the quote or inception call.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
"Mr H is complaining that he thinks the policy was mis-sold because he says Well Dunn 
didn't highlight the fact that he wasn't covered within 400 metres of another trade premises. 
Well Dunn says that it was Mr H's responsibility to advise it of all the material facts to enable 
it to provide a suitable policy.
Under the Insurance Act it was Mr H's responsibility to take reasonable steps to give the 
insurer a fair presentation of the risk. But this doesn't extinguish Well Dunn's responsibilities 
towards Mr H as a broker. Well Dunn recommended the insurance policy to Mr H. So it 
needed to assess whether the policy was suitable to him.
I note Well Dunn says that it thought the policy was it was suitable for him based on the 
information it gave. But when recommending an insurance policy the seller needs to ask 
enough questions to be able to assess the consumer's needs. So the call handler needed to 
ask Mr H about what his job entailed to understand what level of risk he required. And this 
included where Mr H would be driving his customer's cars. Ultimately I haven't seen anything 
to show that it did this. It seems that the policy isn't fully suitable as it didn't provide a level of 
cover that Mr H required. I recognise that Well Dunn wouldn't have been able to source a policy for Mr H that didn't 
contain this exclusion. But in these circumstances, it should have "advised with caution" - i.e. 
explain to Mr H that this is the most suitable policy it could provide him, but explain that there 
were certain limitations that he wasn't covered for.
But further to this, as Mr H's broker, there was also a requirement to highlight significant or 
unusual policy terms. I agree with Well Dunn that it's not possible to highlight each and every 
exclusion. The insurance regulations sets out that a significant exclusion is one that would 
impact on the consumer's decision making.
It appears that Mr H's business does require him to be driving on or near other trade 
premises. Given this, I think it would have been important to his decision making to know 
that he's not covered where he's in an accident in a customer's vehicle within 400 metres of 
another trade premise. So I do think it would have been a significant term to Mr H and I think 
it should have been highlighted to him.
However, I acknowledge that this is a fairly common exclusion that's found in most
motor trade policies. So, while I do think Well Dunn should have done more to highlight 
these terms to Mr H, I have to think about whether he's lost out as a result of this.
As I said, the term the insurer has relied upon is a common term found in most trade 
policies. I'm satisfied that Well Dunn wouldn't have been able to provide Mr H with a policy 
from its panel of insurers that would have covered him for damage to customers' vehicles on 
or near motor trade premises. So to be covered for this, Mr H would have had to contact a 
separate broker or insurer to try and source a policy that didn't have this exclusion. But I 
don't think he would have done so.
I'm aware that there are a limited number of insurance policies that don't have a similar 
exclusion to the one in question. But I also have to take into account that Mr H didn't have a 
No Claims Discount and had limited previous motor trade insurance history. So I think the 
insurers would have considered him a higher than normal risk. Given this, it's a high 
likelihood that Mr H would not have been able to get these policies.
However, irrespective of this, I think of particular note is that Mr H renewed his insurance 
policy a week after his insurer had declined his claim. I've listened to the telephone calls he 
had with Well Dunn in regards to the renewal and he did discuss the fact that the policy still 
didn't cover him for driving within 400 metres of a motor trade premise. He said that he had a 
quote from another insurer which didn't contain this exclusion. But, despite this, he chose to 
renew the policy through Well Dunn in the knowledge that this exclusion still applied. 
As I said above, Well Dunn should have advised him that his insurance policy didn't cover 
loss or damage to customers vehicles if it occurred within 400 metres of a motor trade 
premise. But taking everything into account, I don't think I have enough to say that Mr H 
would have taken out another policy if this had been explained to him.
So for the reasons I've set out above, while I naturally sympathise with the situation that 
Mr H has found himself in, I can't fairly require Well Dunn to cover the cost of the claim."
Well Dunn responded to say that it didn't have anything further to add. Mr H didn't accept my 
provisional decision. He maintains that Well Dunn should have told him that the policy didn't 
cover valeting on trade premises. And he said he wouldn't have taken the policy out had he 
known this. He says that he's since started to trade from home to avoid the situation with the 
exclusion clause which he thinks was unfair. He said that he might as well not have been 
insured at all and he thinks he's wasted almost £4,000 on the insurance policy.Mr H said that this matter has affected him significantly financially and he said he may have 
to close his business. He believes Well Dunn should be liable for the claim, but if not, it 
should refund the premium he paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken Mr H's comments into account, but it hasn't changed my decision.
I'm sorry to hear that Mr H is struggling financially. But for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I can't fairly say that this is down to Well Dunn's actions.  
Firstly, I acknowledge that Mr H thinks the term the insurer has referred to is unfair. But this 
isn't something I can consider in this decision as the term was set and applied by the insurer. 
If Mr H is unhappy with the insurer's actions, he'll need to contact the insurer directly.
I note Mr H said that he wouldn't have taken out this insurance policy. But, as I said before, 
the exclusion  is found in most motor trade policies. There are a limited number of insurance 
policies on the market that don't include this exclusion. But these aren't necessarily readily 
available to everyone and I understand are usually only available to people experienced in 
the industry. Given Mr H's limited motor trade insurance history, I'm not persuaded that he 
could have taken out one of these policies.
So I don't think I've seen enough to show that Mr H could or would have acted differently had 
Well Dunn had done what it should have done. And, ultimately, I don't think I can say that he 
would have been in a different situation.
Finally, I've taken into account Mr H's request for a full refund of the premium that he paid, 
but I don't think Well Dunn is required to do so. I can understand why Mr H thinks he hasn't 
had a benefit from the policy because his claim was declined when he sought to use the 
policy. But the policy still provided him with cover for driving cars away from motor trade 
premises and for other insurable events. So I think he did receive a benefit from it and I can't 
reasonably require Well Dunn to refund the amount he paid for the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman