Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B have complained about the charges applied by Wesleyan Financial Services 
Ltd.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B were alarmed when they received their 2020 With Profits ISA annual 
statement. They noticed that the charges applied in 2020 were much higher than those 
made in 2019. They felt that they had been overcharged and wanted a reduction back to the 
percentages used in previous years.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs B and Mr B appealed. 
In particular they queried the extra fee to Wesleyan Financial Services plus the charges and 
percentages used.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 February 2023. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im minded to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties. 
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here as far as I am able given the limited 
response from Wesleyan. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In 2020 a service charge appeared on Mrs and Mr Bs statement for the first time. I 
understand why they found this confusing and Wesleyan admitted it has not always been as 
transparent. Wesleyan explained that a service charge has always been applied for 
administration, previously in the product and fund management charges section.
Further Wesleyan explained how the annual management charge was calculated. I 
appreciate that charges and fees being shown together can be confusing and this service is 
not able to tell financial firms how its documentation should look. Wesleyan also explained 
that the 2020 charges were higher due to a longer billing period.
Nevertheless the explanation gave rise to other questions, which Mr B reasonably posed.
DRN-4041621Page 2 of 3The Key Facts document pre-December 2012 shows the annual management charge as1%. 
The 2017 Key Facts document stated that the cost of Wesleyan Financial Services providing 
ongoing advice is included in the annual management charge. It also confirms the charge 
will be 1% of the fund if you opt out of the annual advice service. Mrs B and Mr B had opted 
out. The terms and conditions do allow Wesleyan to vary the charge amount. But this service 
has asked Wesleyan three times since November 2022 whether the charge was varied, if so 
when and if notice was given. We asked too if not varied why has the charge gone up? We 
have not received a comprehensive reply.
We also asked why the fee to Wesleyan Financial Services wasnt included in any 
documentation, whether it had always been included at the current proposed rate and the 
basis for the fee. Again no response.
Without answers to the questions asked I cant be satisfied that that the charges complained 
about were made fairly. Therefore I am provisionally satisfied that compensation is due to 
Mrs and Mr B.
Time has now moved on, but this provisional decision concerns only the 2020 charges. I 
also note in the complaint to this service Mrs and Mr B have said they are disappointed with 
the returns on the fund, although this doesnt appear to be a complaint point as not included 
in the tell us what your complaint is about section of our complaint form. 
For the reasons given I explained I was minded to require Wesleyan to pay Mrs and Mr B 
compensation equivalent to a refund on any charges made on their policies in 2020 that 
exceeded the charges made in 2019.
Mrs B and Mr B accepted my decision. However they were concerned that the excess 
charges, not written into the product documentation, continued to be deducted.
Wesleyan responded. It made the following points:
The Wesleyan Financial Services Advice Fee is different to the Wesleyan Financial 
Services Service Fee.
The Society pays a Service Fee to Wesleyan Financial Services each year for the 
provision of administration services. The Wesleyan Financial Services Service fee is 
variable from year to year because the value of the services Wesleyan Financial 
Services provide to the Society changes from year to year. Therefore, it cannot be 
determined at outset.
In addition, it is not a direct fee to the policyholder, it is applied to the whole With 
Profits fund, which subsequently reduces the value of a policyholders fund value. 
The other recurring charges are other costs and payments (mainly transaction costs 
of buying and selling assets) that impact the profits of Wesleyan, which in turn impact 
the final bonuses applied to the With Profits policies.
These other costs and payments that impact on the fund have always applied, but 
since implementation of the Insurance Distribution Directive requirements, all firms 
are now required to show the impact of these type of deeper level costs to the fund. 
The With Profits fund literature states that the return on the fund is impacted by the 
profits and losses of the society and its subsidiaries.
Wesleyan didnt therefore believe that Mrs B and Mr B had been overcharged, but that they 
had paid the correct charges. However it felt that Wesleyan should have provided more Page 3 of 3information within the annual statements on the way that charges were being displayed, to 
avoid any potential distress and inconvenience to customers. With that in mind it offered a 
compensatory payment to Mrs B and Mr B of £50 each.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for Wesleyans response and for its recognition that its documentation wasnt 
clear. The points it makes however were largely made in its final response to Mrs B and Mr 
B. It still doesnt answer the questions posed several times to Wesleyan and repeated in my
provisional decision. Without specific answers to those questions, Im not persuaded to
depart from my provisional findings which I adopt here for the reasons given in my
provisional decision and set out above.
I still cannot say for sure that Mrs B and Mr B have been treated fairly. And I find 
compensation is payable to them at an amount equivalent to a refund on any charges made 
on their policies in 2020 that exceeded the charges made in 2019. As I explained to Mrs B 
and Mr B, in this decision I am only dealing with the complaint to hand and cant make any 
ruling on future charges or complaint points not before me.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd to pay Mrs and Mr B 
compensation equivalent to a refund on any charges made on their policies in 2020 that 
exceeded the charges made in 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman