DRN-4454238
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do enough to prevent him losing
money to a scam.
Mr R has used a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly just
refer to Mr R himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In November 2022 Mr R was the victim of a
scam. He found what he believed to be a genuine investment through social media and as a
result made the following faster payments from his HSBC business account.
Date Amount
16 November 2022 £5,000
16 November 2022 £5,000
22 November 2022 £15,000
Prior to this there had been payments towards the scam of £5 and £750 but these both
bounced back from the business they were sent to. The payments that did go through all
went to an account in Mr Rs own name with a business which specialises in money
transfers W. From there I understand Mr R paid it to what he thought was an investment
and it was subsequently lost to the scam.
When the scam came to light, Mr R reported this to HSBC who essentially advised that he
would need to take this up with W, as they were the point of loss. Mr R complained as he
believes HSBC is responsible for not protecting him. HSBC didnt agree theyd done
anything wrong and the complaint was referred to our service. One of our Investigators
recommended it should be upheld. She thought HSBC ought to have intervened in the
second payment on 16 November 2022 and that this would have prevented further losses.
She recommended that HSBC pay Mr R £20,000 plus interest.
Mr R accepted this outcome, but HSBC didnt. They asked for an Ombudsman to review the
complaint.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im
issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before
finalising my decision.
HSBCs primary obligation is to follow the payment instructions provided by their customers.
But they also have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers
best interests. So, the first thing I must decide is whether the payments Mr R made towards
the scam (either individually or collectively) were so unusual, suspicious or indicative of
potential fraud that HSBC ought to have done more before processing them.
Each account is individual and different from the next in the way it operates and so there are
no set rules for this, and it involves an assessment of the account. This typically covers a
range of factors which include its expected and intended use as well as patterns of spending
or activity that might indicate a fraud or scam.
Ive reviewed the account statements back to October 2021 to assess this. Mr Rs account
was a sole trader business account for a property rental business. The account typically
maintained a healthy balance of between £8,000 to £10,000 and most months there was
fairly consistent activity. With certain regular payments being made that might be expected
for a business of that type as well as occasional larger payments such as £5,000 in January
2022. There were also regular incoming payments presumably from Mr Rs tenants. And it
would appear that when Mr R wanted to pay himself from this account, hed use the
reference drawings. This appears numerous times and is the same reference he used when
sending money to his account with W as part of the scam.
I also note that shortly before the scam payments, there was a large credit into the account
for almost £300,000. I appreciate this payment (and much of how it left the account) was
unrelated to the scam. But it is still part of the context and overall picture. When Mr R
instructed two payments, each for £5,000 on 16 November 2022 the account balance was
over £300,000.
I appreciate Mr R hadnt (in the previous year) made two payments of those amounts before.
But in the context of this particular account and what might reasonably be expected, I cant
say this was so unusual that HSBC not intervening at the time was unreasonable.
And by the time we get to 22 November 2022 and the £15,000 payment, in the preceding
days there had been other significant outgoing payments which included two payments of
£100,000 and another of around £60,000. And in that context, I just dont think the £15,000
payment would have stood out as so unusual or suspicious that HSBC not intervening was
unreasonable. The fact that the recipient account would have been a recently set up payee
doesnt change my mind on this.
And as I dont think HSBC were unreasonable not to have done more before processing the
payments, I dont think they are responsible for the loss on that basis. I also dont think
(given the money went to Mr Rs own account) that anything HSBC did or didnt do in
relation to recovery efforts impacted the loss suffered by Mr R.
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr R being the victim of a scam, it would only be fair for me
to direct HSBC to provide redress if I think they are responsible for the outstanding loss. And
as Im not currently persuaded they are, Im not intending to tell them they need to do more
to resolve this complaint.
HSBC responded and said they had nothing further to add. Mr R responded and said he 
accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman