DRN-3078218
The complaint
IS, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) wont refund money its 
director lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
IS director, Mr M, made some payments from IS business banking account to what he 
believed to be a legitimate investment company. He also made payments to another 
company who said they could help him get back the funds hed initially lost. Unbeknown to 
Mr M at the time, he was actually dealing with fraudsters. 
Between 2017 and 2019, Mr M sent payments from both his personal and IS business 
account. The payments made from Mr Ms personal accounts are being looked at separately 
and will not be discussed further here. 
Barclays has declined to offer Mr M a refund of the four payments that left ISs business 
account. Mr M complained and the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things, but they didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. They said they werent persuaded that IS had suffered a loss in these 
circumstances. Mr M, on behalf of IS, disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a 
decision. So, the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision is solely in relation to the payments that left IS 
business account. In these circumstances, IS is the eligible complainant. As the director, Mr 
M can represent IS, but personally he is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from IS. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the payments from IS business account that went to 
the fraudsters. So, the starting position here is that Barclays ought to have followed the 
instructions it was provided with and processed the payments. 
Based on everything Ive seen; the money being paid from IS account was for a personal 
investment being made by Mr M. He hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate or 
suggest that the investment was being made by IS in its own capacity  Mr M has told us 
this was a personal investment and IS account was used as this is where the money was at 
the time. Based on this, Im satisfied that, on balance, the spending on IS account was for 
the purposes of Mr Ms own personal gain, rather than for any business-related purposes.
Broadly speaking there are two potential scenarios in relation to the debt created by the 
spending on IS account. Firstly, that this was, in effect, IS lending money to Mr M 
personally. If Mr M had borrowed money in this way from IS for personal gain, then he would 
be liable to repay that debt to the company. In this situation IS cant fairly be considered to 
have suffered a loss, as it is still owed the money by Mr M as the debtor in these 
circumstances. 
The second potential scenario is that by spending on ISs account in this way, IS was 
discharging some debt owed to Mr M. Be that a dividend payment, wages or similar. But in 
this situation, again, IS hasnt suffered a loss. The debt has been discharged and Mr M was 
provided with what he was owed (which he then paid to the fraudulent companies). 
Barclays do have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams. But setting all those obligations 
aside, I dont think the fair and reasonable outcome here is to tell Barclays it needs to do 
more. Whichever approach I take to the spending on ISs account, Im not persuaded that IS 
itself has suffered a loss. So even if I were to conclude that there had been a clear and 
obvious failing by Barclays in its handling of matters, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to ask it to do more. This is because any failures that might have occurred didnt cause a 
loss to IS. As such, Im not intending to direct Barclays to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman