DRN-3632635
The complaint
C complains about the decision of HDI Global SE to decline is business interruption 
insurance claim made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of events. Whilst other parties have been 
involved in some of the correspondence, I have just referred to C and HDI for the sake of 
simplicity.
C operates as a recruitment agency and held an industry specific commercial insurance 
policy underwritten by HDI. In March 2020, C contacted HDI to claim for loss of income. It 
said that it had been forced to stop working, either as a direct result of the 
government-imposed restrictions requiring it to close or because these restrictions prevented 
it operating. 
HDI declined the claim. It said that C was not one of those businesses that were required to 
close as a result of the restrictions introduced in March 2020. It also said that the restrictions 
allowed for work premises, of those businesses not required to close, to be used if 
necessary. 
Unhappy with this outcome, C complained  ultimately bringing its complaint to our Service. 
But our Investigator did not think HDI had acted unreasonably by declining the claim. She 
said that recruitment agencies were not a type of business required to close by the 
restrictions, and that it would have been possible for C to use its premises. She also said 
that, whilst she appreciated Cs arguments, the fact that Cs client base would not have been 
operating  meaning that C had no-one to recruit for  is not something that is covered by 
the policy.
C accepted that it was not a type of business specifically required to close. But said that 
regulation 6 of the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 
(the March Regulations) and social distancing guidelines prevented part of its operations. 
As the Investigator did not change her outcome, this complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on C, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy C took out.
The business interruption section of Cs policy provides cover for a number of causes. But 
the majority of these are based on an interruption to the business of the insured which has 
been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused 
substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led 
to an interruption of Cs business. So, I think HDI acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting 
Cs claim under this area of cover.
The section does include cover for interruption caused by:
5) your inability to use your premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority following:

b) an occurrence of a notifiable human disease
COVID-19 is a notifiable human disease, it had occurred by March 2020, and restrictions 
were imposed by a public authority. The question in relation to this cover is whether this 
caused an inability to use Cs premises. 
As has been largely accepted by C, recruitment agencies were not one of the types of 
business specifically directed to close by the March Regulations. Recruitment agencies 
provide a, largely, office-based service. They are not shops, and do not sell or hire goods. 
They also do not fall into the other categories of business that were directed to close. So, I 
agree that the March Regulations did not direct C to close. 
I do appreciate that the sector C provides recruitment for was one of those directed to close. 
And that the consequence of this was that C effectively had no-one to recruit for. But Cs 
policy does not provide cover for, what is effectively, a downturn or loss of market. So, I dont 
consider it would be fair for me to require HDI to cover Cs claim on this basis. 
C has said that certain elements of its normal operation would not have been possible (even 
if there had been a market). It has said this was largely due to regulation 6 and social 
distancing requirements. 
Regulation 6 required people to remain at home, unless they had a reasonable excuse. The 
March Regulations contained a non-exhaustive list of such excuses, and this specifically 
included traveling for the purposes of work. So, I dont consider this would have prevented C 
operating. I consider that both its own employees and the persons it would be placing in any 
relevant role would likely be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work when attending its 
offices. 
And whilst social distancing guidelines may have made certain parts of its operation more 
difficult, the policy requires there to be an inability to use the premises. This can be 
contrasted with other policies that provide cover where there is a hindrance of use. I dont 
think making the changes to its normal operation that would have been required by these 
guidelines would have led to an inability to use the premises. 
So, I am satisfied HDIs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means HDI should have met Cs claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for C and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman