DRN-3143892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the repairs and redecoration proposed by Fairmead Insurance 
Limited in respect of their claim for subsidence damage to their home under their home 
insurance policy. Mr and Mrs L also complain about Fairmeads poor handling of their claim.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs L noticed that cracks on the inside and outside of their home and 
they claimed to Fairmead. Fairmead appointed loss adjusters to investigate and expert 
assessments and monitoring of the property for movement followed. The loss adjusters 
report concluded that movement was due to clay shrinkage due the presence of a tree in the 
neighbours front garden and a local authority owned tree which was in front of the property. 
Fairmead said monitoring needed to last 12 months to meet local authority requirements 
concerning its tree. Following this the local authority appear to have refused to remove its 
tree. But Fairmeads loss adjusters sent Mr and Mrs L a schedule of repairs and there was 
discussion as to what should be included therein and the materials to be used.
Repairs were due to begin in June 2020 and a revised schedule of work included Mr and 
Mrs Ls hallway. But a breakdown in communication, a dispute about payment of the excess 
and the covid pandemic delayed matters until January 2021. Mr and Mrs L said the loss 
adjuster told them the excess would only apply if structural work was undertaken and as 
most of the work was decorative, they understood the excess wouldnt apply. 
  
As the works were about to commence Mr and Mrs L said they werent sufficient to cover all 
the repairs necessary. Mr and Mrs L were also concerned that subsidence would return after 
the repairs. Fairmeads loss adjuster thought a cash settlement would allow Mr and Mrs L to 
arrange the work themselves. Mr and Mrs L complained to Fairmead about its decisions and 
handling of their claim and said its offer of cash settlement was derisory.
Fairmead responded that the excess always applies and explained how the repairs would be 
carried out. It said painting to undamaged walls wouldnt be covered, but a 50% contribution 
could be offered for the cost. Fairmead said if cracks reappeared then it is likely this would 
be considered as part of the same claim with no requirement for payment of a new excess. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy about the proposed repairs and referred their complaint to 
our service. They said theyd contended with immense stress, upset and worry with their 
claim and expended a huge amount of time on it. They were concerned about the paint that 
would be used, mis-matched walls, and a gap between the floor and skirting board. Mr L 
said he was spoken to rudely about the cash settlement offer. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said the excess would 
have to be paid by Mr and Mrs L and Fairmeads proposed repairs were reasonable. She 
invited Mr and Mrs L to provide evidence about the proposed repairs if they remained in 
disagreement. She thought the paint could be changed to meet Mr and Mrs Ls requirements 
and Fairmead should include the gap between the floor and skirting board in the repairs. 
The investigator said theres nothing in the policy concerning matching items and so 
Fairmeads offer of a 50% contribution was more than fair as is its offer of a cash settlement 
for the claim. She recommended Fairmead pay £250 compensation for the delays and 
distress caused to Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L said they agreed with the investigators assessment but were interested in 
what the repairs would involve in practice. 
Fairmead said it wasnt previously aware of a gap between the floor and skirting board and 
would cover this if caused by subsidence. Fairmead said it would cover the cost of all walls 
in a room affected by subsidence. It didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls preferred paint would be a 
problem and it confirmed its 50% contribution for work to undamaged areas. And it agreed to 
pay £250 compensation. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because there is a small degree of uncertainty in how the almost agreed settlement of Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim would work out in practice, their complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision. We have asked Fairmead for further clarity on its resolution of the claim but 
this hasnt been forthcoming and so I have set out what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable resolution of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. In doing so I have reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator and largely for the same reasons.
Subsidence claims by their nature tend to be more complex than other claims for damage 
and generally involve multiple parties. This means we expect them to take longer, not least 
because a period of monitoring of the property is required, and claims consume more of a 
policyholders time in pursuing them to a conclusion. So, when I consider if there have been 
any delays Im only considering any avoidable delays for which Fairmead are responsible. 
Ive reviewed the progress of Mr and Mrs Ls claim in detail, and I think there are two errors 
by Fairmead in this respect:
- There is a delay of around six weeks between the monitoring being completed in early 
December 2019 to early February 2020 when Mr and Mrs L chased for an update. These 
delays caused Mr and Mrs L frustration and additional distress at having to chase in order for 
the claim to be progressed, so its an avoidable delay.
- It doesnt look like Mr L received a call back when he asked to speak to the case handler at 
the end of July 2020 so there was a delay of around a week. Again, Mr L had to chase for 
this, which could have been avoided had his request been actioned initially. 
I have also found that Fairmead and its agents could have communicated better, and Mr and 
Mrs L became locked into a cycle of endless phone calls and e-mails with little progress on 
their claim. I can see that Mr and Mrs L have suffered inconvenience and frustration. The 
parties have agreed the compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs L put forward by our investigator, and I think this is fair. 
Mr and Mrs L said they were told that they would only have to pay the policy excess if their 
property was underpinned. I havent seen any evidence of this. The policy excess is payable 
when a claim is accepted and work is to take place. This doesnt depend on the type or level 
of work and so I think Fairmead is entitled to charge the policy excess for this subsidence 
claim. In terms of the repairs, our investigator suggested that Mr and Mrs L could provide some 
expert evidence about the repairs proposed by Fairmead and said that Fairmead would have 
to review this. It seems that the parties are now very close to agreement on what will take 
place, the materials to be used and costs.
To assist with clarity, I will address points where they may still be uncertainty. It seems that a 
gap between the floor and skirting board has appeared. I dont think this was reported to 
Fairmead or its agents initially. However, it seems likely this would have occurred as a 
consequence of the movement of the property and so in order to get the claim resolved it is 
reasonable for this to be added to the schedule of works and remedial work carried out as 
part of the claim repairs.
Fairmead has said the paint to be used can be changed to meet Mr and Mrs Ls 
requirements. I think this is reasonable and Fairmead should confirm this to Mr and Mrs L to 
put their mind at rest. 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy does not offer recovery for undamaged matching items and so I agree 
with the investigator that Fairmeads offer of a 50% contribution towards these costs is a 
very fair offer to Mr and Mrs L. 
As with all repairs, our service expects insurers to carry out lasting and effective repairs of 
the damage to Mr and Mrs Ls home. Fairmead has said that the recurrence of any related 
damage is likely to be addressed under the existing claim. 
From what Ive seen both parties are keen to have this claim resolved and so I am sure 
Fairmead will not cause any further delays and carry out all claim-related repairs as quickly 
as possible to minimise further disruption to Mr and Mrs L. However, should Mr and Mrs L 
remain dissatisfied with the repairs and costs they can bring a further complaint to Fairmead 
about this, but I hope that wont be necessary.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
This is for the claim repairs to be carried out as soon as possible by agreement between the 
parties where possible and as set out above.
 
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs L £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they have been caused. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman