DRN-3543155
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Pen Underwriting Limited (Pen) made a mistake when it quoted the 
renewal premium for her home insurance, then acted unfairly by asking her to pay an 
additional premium to correct this mistake.
What happened
Mrs B had a landlords home insurance policy with Pen, taken out through a broker. The 
policy was due for renewal in December 2020. 
Pen initially quoted her new premium at £912.21, a significant increase on the previous year. 
Mrs B told us she received this in November 2020 and queried the increase via her broker. 
She was told this was due to an open July 2020 claim on her policy. 
On 1 December 2020, the day of renewal, Mrs Bs broker asked Pen to send her the new 
policy documents and confirm the premium. Pen sent the broker a quote of £493.09. The 
broker asked Pen which quote was correct but Pen didnt reply until 16 December. At that 
point Pen told the broker the original £912 quote was correct and asked her to renew at this 
price. 
When Mrs B complained about this, Pen explained that a system error meant the second 
calculation hadnt taken account of the July 2020 claim. It accepted that it should have 
replied more quickly to her broker and offered Mrs B £50 to apologise for this.
Mrs B was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to this service. She thinks 
Pen should honour the lower quoter and doesnt see why she should have to pay for Pens 
mistake.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that Pen initially quoted the correct renewal premium and Mrs B was prepared to 
accept that. He accepted Pens explanation that the second quote was due to a system 
error. He thought Pens apology for the delay replying to her broker and £50 compensation 
offer was fair.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs B. It would have been nice to be told the renewal would cost less than 
she was initially quoted, and I can understand why she might have believed this was 
because her earlier claim had been settled. So I can understand her frustration at being told 
later that the higher quote was correct and asked to pay the difference.
I think that if Pen had quoted only the lower figure and Mrs B had accepted this Pen should 
honour it. However, theres no question that Pen first quoted Mrs B the correct premium. Mrs 
B told us she received this in early November. That means she and her broker had more 
than two weeks to reject this and search the market for a lower quote. I note that, in an email 
exchange on 1 December, the broker told Mrs B due to the pending claim I am unable to 
offer a quote elsewhere. I also note that the broker confirmed the July 2020 claim was still 
outstanding in that same email exchange. 
In February 2022, Mrs B told us she was expecting the premium to reduce as soon as the 
open claim was settled. However, in her original complaint she said her broker had told her 
this was possible but could not be guaranteed [my emphasis]. She said the same thing in 
a phone call with our investigator in November 2021. So Im satisfied Mrs B was told there 
was no guarantee her premium would reduce when her claim was settled.
Finally, Mrs B told us she would most likely have accepted the original quote. That makes 
sense given her broker only asked Pen to provide the new policy documents on the day of 
renewal, giving little or no time to seek alternative cover. 
For the reasons above, I think its reasonable for me to conclude that Mrs B was prepared to 
renew her insurance at the higher premium. Put another way, Im satisfied she didnt renew 
her insurance based on the lower quote. In the circumstances, I dont agree that Pen should 
have to honour the second, incorrect quote.
I agree that Pen made a mistake when it quoted the lower premium. Its records show that it 
confirmed the correct figure to her broker two weeks after this mistake, on 16 December, not 
two months later as Mrs B says. It apologised for this and offered Mrs B £50. I think this is 
fair and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman