DRN-3854365
The complaint
Miss J complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), didnt reimburse the money she lost when she 
was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) purchase scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Miss J was the victim of a purchase scam.
Miss J was looking to purchase a mobile phone and came across one that was listed for sale 
on a well-known social media website. 
Miss J engaged with the seller of the advert and opted to purchase the mobile phone for 
£500 plus a delivery fee of £7.
Miss J tried to pay through an online payment service provider whom Ill call X, but the 
seller didnt have an account with X. The seller then set up an account and Miss J sent the 
funds across. But the seller then sent Miss J a screenshot showing that he had sent the 
money back as they would have to wait seven days for the money and that X had taken a 
£15 fee. Miss J then opted to send the money via bank transfer instead and did so on 
15 January 2022. The seller advised they had posted the mobile and that it would be with 
Miss J the next day by 1pm. The seller then stopped engaging with Miss J and the mobile 
phone never arrived. 
Miss J, having realised shed been the victim of a scam contacted Monzo. Ultimately, after 
some initial confusion  caused by Miss J, Monzo logged the scam and reached out to the 
beneficiary bank (the bank where Miss J had sent her funds to) to see if any funds remained 
that could be recovered. Unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered.
Monzo also considered whether Miss J should be reimbursed for her loss under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). Monzo isnt a 
signatory of the CRM Code but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. Monzo said Miss J ought to have done more checks to make 
sure she was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller.
Unhappy, Miss J referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
Miss Js complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. The Investigator didnt believe Monzo 
had fairly assessed Miss Js claim under the CRM Code. They didnt consider Monzo had 
been able to establish Miss J made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
she was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller.
 
The Investigator recommended Monzo reimburse Miss J the funds she lost to the scam and 
pay additional compensation at 8% simple interest per year on that amount from the date it 
declined Miss Js claim under the CRM Code. 
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, I 
have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of Miss Js complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss J 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss J 
lost.
The money was taken from the Miss Js current account. Miss J has therefore been 
deprived of the use of those funds. So Monzo should also pay interest on the amount 
not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should apply from the 
date Monzo first declined to refund Miss J under the CRM Code, to the date of 
settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If Monzo declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Monzo to 
establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code itself. Those 
exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but none of these are applicable here.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
After having carefully considered all of Monzos submissions, Im satisfied that it has not 
shown that Miss J made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that she was 
paying a legitimate seller or ignored an effective scam warning. I will go on to explain why I 
have reached this finding.Did Miss J have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
When considering this aspect, I am mindful that the test here is whether Miss J had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. 
It is important to note at this point, that Miss J didnt expect or want to be scammed. She 
thought she was purchasing a mobile phone which she had found for sale on a well-known 
social media website. It isnt uncommon for people to purchase items this way, and in this 
case I dont find there was anything about unusual about the item for sale, such as the price 
or the seller, that should have given Miss J cause for concern. 
Monzo has commented that the price of the mobile phone was too good to be true. I 
disagree, while it was a good offer, I dont think the price was so unrealistic that it should 
have been a flag to Miss J that all may not be as they seemed. And I am mindful, as our 
investigator pointed out, that the model of the mobile phone Miss J was purchasing had 
been available for around 18 months and the newer model was already on the market and 
had been for some time. Mobile phones typically tend to go down in value when the later 
model becomes available. Monzo has provided this service with a link to website which 
shows the average retail price at the time Miss J made payment. I have taken that into 
consideration in reaching my findings, and in reviewing that information, I can also see that 
the price also dropped shortly after Miss J attempted to purchase the phone and went back 
up again slightly. But here, I am also mindful that as Miss J was buying from a private seller 
it wasnt implausible that she thought she was simply getting a good deal for an older model 
mobile phone. So, on the whole, I dont think the price Miss J was paying at the time was so 
unreasonable or would have been such a red flag or deemed too good to be true that it 
should have given Miss J cause for concern. 
Monzo has also raised a concern that Miss J made the payment through bank transfer which 
goes against the social media platforms advice when buying goods. But it isnt uncommon 
for people to make payment by bank transfer. And here, having also reviewed the messages 
Miss J had with the seller and I can see why Miss J thought everything was ok and so 
proceeded to pay via bank transfer. The supposed seller did accept Miss Js initial payment 
through X, but advised, and sent a screen shot to Miss J showing that the funds would be 
held for seven days and there was a £15 fee and then sent her the funds back. I think this 
act would have simply reinforced to Miss J that the seller didnt have any bad intentions and 
seemed to be a genuine seller and wouldnt have reasonably thought beyond this.
The account beneficiary name that Miss J made the payment to matched the name of the 
seller, which also matched the name when she initially made the payment through X. Again I 
think this would have reassured Miss J that she was dealing with whom she thought was a 
legitimate person selling a legitimate item. 
All things considered, I can see why Miss J thought she was dealing with a legitimate seller 
when making the payment. So Im not persuaded Monzo has shown that Miss J lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment for it to choose not to reimburse 
Miss J under the terms of the CRM Code.Did Miss J ignore an effective warning? 
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Miss J from becoming a victim of a 
scam. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, 
they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The CRM Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.
 
I am also mindful that when Miss J made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In this case, Miss J was making a relatively modest payment. I dont think the amount of this 
payment would have made it stand out enough for Monzo to have been concerned that 
Miss J might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time that she made it. The 
payment was relatively low in value. So, I dont think Monzo should have identified an APP 
scam risk in the payment journey or that it needed to provide Miss J with an effective 
warning. 
That said, in its submissions to this service, Monzo has said a medium friction warning was 
shown. It hasnt explicitly said what warning Miss J would have been shown but has 
provided all of its warnings for various payment purposes. I have reviewed what I consider 
the most relevant warning to be, or likely selected by Miss J  which was Monzos warning in 
relation to Goods and Services
In this case, Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. I say this because the warning attempts to prevent purchase scams, but I dont think 
the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this particular type of purchase scam obvious. 
The warning is bright red and says Stop, dont pay. Its very likely this is a scam. But then it 
simply advises that bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at a higher risk 
of fraud and that bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments, It 
recommends to Pay by card if you can. But it doesnt cover the common features of this 
type of scam or really bring to life what the type of scam Miss J fell victim to looks like. And it 
doesnt explain in sufficient detail what Mr B could have done to protect himself against this 
type of scam other than find a legitimate seller who lets you pay by card. And I am mindful 
as explained above that Miss J was making a payment to a private seller who wouldnt have 
facilities to take payment by card and whom she had already made a payment to through 
PayPal  so was satisfied she was paying the right person and didnt have any concerns 
about at the time. 
So, Im not satisfied Monzo can choose to decline reimbursement under this exception 
either.  
Did Monzo do enough to recover Miss Js funds?
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether Monzo 
took reasonable steps to recover Miss Js funds once it was made aware she was the victim 
of a scam. But for completeness, I can see that Monzo did act promptly once notified of the 
scam but unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered.
Summary
Overall, I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, Monzo hasnt established any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply.My final decision
For the reasons explained, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Js
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. 
I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss J:
the money lost through this scam, that being the sum of £507; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo Bank Ltd 
originally declined Miss Js claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Miss Js acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman