DRN-3034010
The complaint
Mr D complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner and he felt 
the interest rate on the loan made the borrowing unfairly expensive.
What happened
Mr D was given loans by Loans 2 Go as follows:
LoanDate 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentLoan 
status
1 04/08/19 £250.00 18 months £57.14 Repaid 
12/08/19
2 14/11/19 £350.00 18 months £79.99 Outstanding
Mr D complained that Loans 2 Go didnt carry out proper checks and he felt, had it 
done so, it would have been clear that the lending wasnt affordable for him. Mr D has 
also complained about the overall cost of the borrowing. 
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although our adjudicator 
didnt think the checks Loans 2 Go had done were sufficient, she explained that Mr D 
hadnt provided information she would need to determine what better checks would have 
shown. So our adjudicator wasnt able to say that the lending shouldnt have been agreed 
and she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ds complaint.
I think there are several key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loans2Go was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr D 
irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that he could repay the loan in a sustainable way. So the lender was required to 
carry out checks to ensure the loan was affordable.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr D. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, 
and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of 
credit being applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all 
of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr D.
I have included information about loan 1 as it is part of the overall picture of Mr Ds use of 
credit. But, like our adjudicator, I dont think I need to deal in any detail with loan 1. Thats 
because Mr D wasnt charged anything for this loan  it was repaid before any interest 
was incurred. 
So Mr D wasnt any worse off in money terms as a result of taking it out and this means 
there wouldnt be anything Loans 2 Go would need to do to put things right. 
Thinking about loan 2, Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr D before it 
agreed this loan. It asked him for details of his income and it checked his credit file to 
assess his credit history and see how much he was repaying to other creditors.
Loans 2 Go used an online income verification tool to check Mr Ds pay and it was 
satisfied that it could safely rely on Mr D receiving a minimum monthly income of 
around £1,459. It boosted the amount of expenditure Mr D had declared and calculated 
that he would need to spend around £1,149 each month on his regular outgoings and 
servicing his existing debt. It also added a 10% buffer to allow for fluctuations in his income or expenditure. On this basis, Loans 2 Go was satisfied that the contractual 
loan monthly repayments should still have been affordable for Mr D  and I think its fair 
to say its affordability calculations do seem to support that conclusion. 
The credit check Loans 2 Go obtained suggested that although Mr D wasnt heavily 
reliant on credit at that time, he had struggled to make his repayments in the past and he 
appeared to have run into payment problems on a £200 short term loan taken out just the 
month before. So I would expect that Loans 2 Go would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ds financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. 
I dont think that the checks it did were enough. I think it would have been proportionate 
for Loans 2 Go to independently check the true state of Mr Ds finances before agreeing 
the loan. But although I dont think the checks Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the loan 
were sufficient, thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I also 
need to be able to say that if Loans 2 Go had done what I consider to be proportionate 
checks, these would have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr D couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments. 
We asked Mr D to provide us with his bank statements from the time to show us more 
about his actual financial circumstances when he applied for the loan. Being able to look at 
his bank statements would help us understand what information Loans 2 Go shouldve 
taken into account before agreeing to lend to him. 
Unfortunately Mr D hasnt given us what we asked for. So I havent seen bank statements 
that would help me gain a fuller understanding of his actual financial situation when he 
was taking out this loan. And I dont know what else, if anything, Loans 2 Go is likely to 
have found out if it had done more and better checks. 
Whilst I appreciate its frustrating for Mr D  he told us that his bank cant go back that far so 
he cant send us anything else  what Mr D has told me isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold the complaint. Where the information is incomplete, as some of it is here, 
I must make my decision based on the information thats available, making some reasonable 
assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be impartial. 
I dont feel that I have seen enough overall to make me think that even if Loans 2 Go had 
sought a fuller picture of Mr Ds finances it shouldve realised that the loan wasnt likely to 
be sustainable for him. Even if Loans 2 Go had looked in more depth at Mr Ds finances, 
based on what I've been able to look at, I cant fairly say that Loans 2 Go would have seen 
enough to make it think that Mr D was facing serious problems managing his money when 
he applied for these loans and so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
In coming to my view, Ive taken on board that there was a risk that Mr D would be adding to 
his debt problems with this additional borrowing. And I can see that Mr D had payment 
problems by the time the first monthly repayment was due and he told Loans 2 Go that the 
loan wasnt affordable for him. But I dont think that Loans 2 Go had any real reason to think 
that was likely to happen as a result of its loan. 
I think its fair to say that evidence of serious financial difficulty isnt reflected in the credit 
checks that Loans 2 Go acquired. 
Whilst it could see some defaulted accounts, it looked like those had been settled some time 
before Mr D applied to borrow from Loans 2 Go. It was apparent that Mr D had made full use 
of two credit cards, but the overall outstanding balance owing on his cards didnt appear 
excessive for him and he was maintaining those accounts satisfactorily. I do think it was concerning that he appeared to have run into payment problems on another 
loan soon after taking it out  but the fact he had entered a payment arrangement suggested 
that he had addressed the issue with the lender and agreed new terms that were 
manageable for him. 
And although I think it warranted further enquiry, this information alone wasnt enough in my 
view to have prompted a responsible lender not to provide more credit. Its fair to say that it 
could have been a one-off payment issue now resolved. 
The loan monthly repayments looked affordable for Mr D out of his disposable income. 
And there wasnt enough showing on the credit checks that Loans 2 Go could see that 
shouldve made the lender realise that the loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable for Mr D. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
Overall, I dont think the information Loans 2 Go saw was enough to make it think that it 
shouldnt lend to Mr D.
So Im not upholding Mr Ds irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaint.
And I havent seen enough to say that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mr D in any other way that 
was unfair or unreasonable. Im very sorry to learn about Mr Ds financial difficulty. 
I think there is a large amount of interest payable and I can appreciate that Mr D might now 
feel this is unfair. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amounts of interest 
payable. 
Mr D had to actively engage in the loan application process. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr D was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree at the time. 
So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
And it looks like Loans 2 Go offered to accept reduced monthly repayments on the loan to try 
and assist Mr D when it became apparent that he wasnt able to make the full monthly 
repayments successfully.
So this isnt a reason for me to make any award against Loans 2 Go. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Mr D but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion. 
And if Mr D would like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about his 
situation theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other support on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman