DRN-2337361
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc closed his credit card account and recorded a CIFAS 
marker against his name. CIFAS in one of the UKs fraud alert services. He wants 
compensation for the distress caused.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr C applied online for a credit card with Santander. His account was 
opened, but a few days later the account was blocked and then closed by Santander.
When Mr C complained, Santander would not change its decision to withdraw the offer of a 
credit card. But it accepted Mr C had been provided with some conflicting information and its 
service fell short of what Mr C should have expected. It paid him £100 compensation. 
In its final response to his complaint, in November 2019, Santander also suggested Mr C 
obtained a copy of his credit report and request a subject access report from CIFAS.
Mr C obtained information from CIFAS in March 2020 which showed that Santander had 
recorded a marker against his name for a fraudulent application. Mr C referred his complaint 
to this service.
During our investigation, it became clear that Santander had recorded a marker for 
application fraud. This was because Mr C had not disclosed an address linked to him. This 
address had a default registered against it. 
But Mr C explained that hed never lived at the address which was a third-party bank branch 
address. Santander removed the CIFAS marker when our investigator made Santander 
aware of this information.
Our investigator didnt think Santander needed to do anything else.
C didnt agree. He replied in some detail to say, in summary, that:
Santander should compensate him for wrongly recording a CIFAS marker against his 
name. He noted this service had awarded compensation in other cases where CIFAS 
markers have been misapplied.
Santander was wrong to record the CIFAS marker and it wouldnt engage with him when 
he complained.
Santander didnt have the required evidence to report him to the police, so it broke 
CIFAS principles.
Santander has defamed him and would only remove the marker after Mr C referred his 
complaint to this service.
Mr C will apply for compensation through the courts if this service does not award 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander initially accepted Mr Cs application for a credit card. But, when it carried out 
further checks, it found an address linked to Mr C that he hadnt disclosed in his application. 
That address had a default linked to it and was the subject of another CIFAS marker. Having 
identified this, I dont find Santander was wrong to reject Mr Cs application and I dont find it 
acted unreasonably in recording a CIFAS marker against his name.
Mr C complained about his account being closed. Santander accepted it hadnt provided as 
good a service as it should have and paid Mr C £100 compensation. I consider this to be fair 
and reasonable.
Based on the information Santander had in 2019, I think it had enough to record a CIFAS 
marker  Mr C was linked to an address where he had a default for a mortgage that he 
hadnt disclosed. I dont find there was any obligation on Santander to make any further 
enquiries about that address.
Mr C obtained the information about the marker from CIFAS in March 2020. I cant see that 
he complained to Santander about the marker. He only raised this when he referred his 
complaint to us. And, when he did so, he told us that the address was a bank branch 
address.
We made Santander aware of this information and it arranged to remove the marker. Ive not 
seen evidence to show that Mr C contacted Santander to tell it about the address. So I think 
Santander acted as soon as it became aware of what had happened.
I understand this has been upsetting for Mr C. But I dont find that Santander did anything 
wrong. It acted reasonably on the information that was available. For that reason, I dont find 
that needs to compensate Mr C.
Mr C is free to reject my decision and pursue his complaint through other means, as he has 
suggested he will do.
If he has not already done so, Mr C may wish to contact the third party bank whose address 
he has been linked with to ensure this is removed from his credit file to prevent any problems 
with financial applications in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman