DRN-1433362
 
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the service Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) provided when she 
tried to stop money debiting her current account.
What happened
On 24 July 2019 Miss A contacted Halifax as she was concerned a payment of £319.50 was 
debiting her account to a retail company. Miss A wanted Halifax to stop the payment being 
made. Miss A says the advisor said they couldnt assist her. So, she asked to speak to a 
manager.
Miss A was put on hold before speaking with a manager but she says it wasnt helpful so the 
call was disconnected. Miss A then made a further call with Halifax so she could raise a 
formal complaint. But she says she wasnt put through to the complaint department. Miss A 
wasnt happy with the service Halifax provided and she said the advisor was rude to her.
Halifax looked into Miss As complaint. It explained it was unable to stop or cancel the debit 
card transaction whilst it was pending. It went on to explain when Miss A gave her debit card 
details to the retailer, she was giving her card as a guaranteed method of payment. So Miss 
A would need to raise this issue with the retailer. But Halifax did say if Miss A wasnt sure 
that the service provider should be taking the money, she may have been able to dispute the 
payment using the card dispute process. 
However, Halifax did agree that the service it provided could have been better and because 
of this it offered Miss A £25. Halifax says this was put into Miss As account on 30 July 2019. 
But Miss A says Halifax took this back when she moved her account to another bank. 
Miss A closed her account with Halifax on 5 August 2019 and because she was unhappy 
with Halifax final response, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. To 
summarise she said that Halifax had acted in line with the terms and conditions. She didnt 
agree that the advisors at Halifax had acted rudely towards Miss A and couldnt see that it 
took back the compensation if had paid. Miss A remained unhappy with the investigators 
response, so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators finding for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
When Miss A opened her current account with Halifax she would have been asked to read 
and sign to say she agreed with the terms and conditions of the account. Having reviewed 
the terms and conditions of the account, I am satisfied that it clearly states that a debit card transaction can't be stopped or cancelled while it is pending. So, I am satisfied the 
information the advisor provided to Miss A when she contacted Halifax on 24 July 2019 was 
correct and in line with the terms and conditions. 
Miss A has said the advisor was rude to her and belittled her on this call. Having listened to 
this call I can't say I agree. The advisor tried to explain why it couldn't stop a payment and 
that the best course of action was for Miss A to redirect her complaint back to the retailer. 
However, at the start of the call Miss A does clearly say the retailer was "holding her direct 
debit details" and it appears the advisor misunderstood what Miss A had said. When Miss A 
asked the advisor to repeat what she had said earlier on in the call, the advisor didn't 
accurately relay back what Miss A had said. So, I appreciate why Miss A felt the advisor 
hadn't listened. However, I am satisfied this wouldn't have changed the outcome of Miss A's 
complaint. I say this because the advisor still wouldn't have been able to stop or cancel the 
payments, which is what Miss A wanted.
Miss A asked to speak to a manager, the advisor asked Miss to refrain from swearing before 
she put her on hold. I do agree that the service Halifax provided at this point could have 
been better. I say this because Miss A was put on hold for 17 minutes and when the 
manager did speak to Miss A she confirmed she had listened to the call. But that wasn't the 
case. 
A better service could have been offered by either, explaining that it was going to take some 
time for a manger to become available, or for a call back to have been offered. Miss A says 
the manager was disinterested and mumbling. I can't say I agree. She was clearly and 
confidently explaining the process and why the payment couldn't be cancelled. But overall, I 
do think the service Halifax offered could have been better and it also acknowledged this 
point. Halifax offered £25 for the trouble and upset it caused. And I feel this is satisfactory. I 
say this because it covered the call costs Miss A incurred and for the error Halifax made 
when it confirmed it had listened to the call (although this error didn't have an impact the 
outcome of the complaint). 
Having listened to the last call Miss A made to Halifax, I don't agree that the advisor was 
rude or trying to belittle Miss A. The advisor said if Miss A continued to talk over him or use 
offensive language, he would terminate the call. And the call was terminated due to the 
language Miss A used. So, I don't agree Halifax acted inappropriately in this circumstance. 
Halifax has said it credited Miss A's account with £25 for the trouble and upset it caused. 
Having reviewed Miss A's bank statements I can see that a payment of £25 credited her 
account on 30 July 2019. Miss A says Halifax took this money back from her account. But 
having reviewed her statements between 30 July 2019 and 5 August 2019 (when the 
account closed) I can't see any evidence to show Halifax debited the compensation.  
With that in mind and for the reasons I have explained above, I do think Halifax made some 
errors and aspects of the service it provided could have been better. But I think the £25 it 
offered to compensate Miss A is fair and reasonable, so I won't be asking it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Jade RoweOmbudsman