DRN-2977747
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain about The Co-operative Bank Plc (TCB) as they believe the 
account numbers they usually pay money into online were changed without their consent.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L hold a joint current account with TCB. Mr L regularly used this account to 
transfer money into the current and savings accounts he held with another bank, who Ill 
refer to as N. 
On 17 March 2021, Mr L attempted to transfer £50 from the TCB joint account into his 
current account open with N. But instead, the £50 was transferred into his savings account. 
So, Mr L had to log into his online account with N to move the £50 into the correct account. 
Mr L was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr L was unhappy that hed been forced to move the £50 for a second time. He explained 
this had taken time and effort and had been inconvenient for him. Mr L thought TCB had 
altered the account numbers that hed saved on his online banking, so his current account 
number was listed as his savings account. He thought this caused the £50 to be transferred 
to the incorrect account and he wanted to be compensated for the upset this had caused 
him.
TCB didnt agree. They explained they wouldnt alter any information a customer had listed 
on his account, unless they had consent to do so. They explained theyd checked their audit 
log and hadnt found any evidence to show theyd accessed Mr Ls account since November 
2020, and Mr L had made successful transfer and payments into his accounts with N since 
then. So, they didnt agree theyd altered Mr Ls details and because of this, didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr L remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He understood the 
inconvenience Mr L had been caused. But he didnt think hed seen any evidence to show 
any of Mr Ls details about his accounts with N had been changed by TCB. So, he didnt 
think he could say TCB had done anything wrong and because of this, he didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree. He maintained his view that TCB had changed the details on his online 
banking. And he thought TCB had made an error saying they had three accounts listed on 
his online banking for N, when he only held two accounts. He thought this was evidence to 
show TCB had made a mistake. As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had one Mr L. I dont doubt Mr L 
intended to transfer the £50 into his current account with N. So, I can understand why hed 
be left frustrated when he realised it had instead gone into his savings account. And I can 
appreciate the time and effort it wouldve taken to log onto his online banking with N to 
ensure the £50 was in the right account. But for me to say TCB were at fault for this, Id need 
to be satisfied they made a mistake that directly led to the £50 being sent to the incorrect 
account. And in this situation, I dont think they have.
I recognise Mr L feels strongly that TCB altered the account details he held for N on his 
online banking with them. So, Ive looked at the evidence available to me to see if this is the 
case. Ive looked through the audit trail of Mr Ls account at length, which shows me each 
time Mr Ls account was logged into. And from this, I cant see any evidence to show TCB 
entered Mr Ls account from November 2020 to March 2021, when they investigated Mr Ls 
complaint.
Within this time, Mr L logged into his online TCB account on several occasions. And he 
made five separate payments into his accounts with N. Three payments were made as a 
regular bill payment, of £100 each to Mr Ls savings account. And two other transfers were 
made into Mr Ls current account of different amounts. So, I think Mr L was able to make 
transfers into both accounts, using the same account details that were available to him when 
the £50 was sent to the incorrect savings account. I cant see that TCB accessed Mr Ls 
account in that time to change the details of these. And I wouldnt have expected them to do 
so, as Mr L didnt ask them to do so. So, without any evidence to show me otherwise, I dont 
think I can fairly say that TCB have done anything wrong and because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
Ive also thought about Mr Ls comments regarding the three accounts he thinks TCB hold 
for his N accounts. But I cant see that TCB have three different accounts listed for Mr L and 
his N accounts. I can only see two accounts, his current account and his savings account. 
But I can see Mr Ls savings account is listed twice, named as both N and Savings. Ive 
looked at Mr Ls account history, to understand why this may be. And I can see Mr L 
attempted to make a funds transfer of £4,000 to his savings account in in August 2020, 
which was unsuccessful. Mr L has since set up a bill payment from his joint account with 
TCB to his savings account, which is processed each month. So, Mr L has made two 
different types of payment into the same account, which I think explains why Mr L has two 
separately named accounts listed on his TCB online banking for his savings account with N. 
And I dont think TCB have acted unfairly or unreasonably by saving the details in this way.
As TCB has explained, Mr L is able to delete one of these through his online banking, which 
may help prevent further confusion. Its Mr Ls own decision whether he wishes to do so, but 
I think TCB have acted fairly by letting Mr L know he has this option available.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for. But I hope this decision provides 
some clarity on the account details TCB hold for his accounts with N and clears up any 
further confusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about The Co-operative 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman