DRN-3883892
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after she made a claim on her
landlord legal expenses and rent guarantee policy.
What happened
In August 2021 Ms D got in touch with Amtrust (all references to Amtrust include its claims
handlers). She wanted assistance in bringing an eviction claim against a tenant for breach of
his tenancy agreement. She said hed damaged her property and was preventing repairs
being carried out. After obtaining further information from Ms D, Amtrust referred the matter
to panel solicitors.
There was discussion between the solicitors and Ms D over what evidence was required to
support her claim including whether tenant was in rent arrears, what the damage to the
property was and details of how his deposit had been registered. Ms D had difficulties in
responding to some of the emails because of health problems but confirmed towards the end
of December that she did want to pursue the eviction.
Amtrust said prior to possession being obtained cover was only provided where a tenant had
failed to perform their obligations under the tenancy agreement. As it now appeared the rent
at the property was up to date there was no breach of the agreement. So Ms D would need
to issue a Section 21 notice (which didnt require a breach of the agreement). If the tenant
didnt then vacate the property, the policy could potentially assist. Amtrust offered assistance
from panel solicitors in checking the validity of the notice.
Having sought advice from them Ms D issued a notice at the start of January which expired
in early March. However, when she contacted the solicitors at the start of March they said
there was an error with the notice which theyd missed. But they noted the tenant had
agreed to vacate the property at the end of March. They offered to draft the necessary
paperwork in relation to this and to issue a revised Section 21 notice.
Ms D said shed lost confidence in the panel firm and asked Amtrust to find her an
alternative. Amtrust said that there was no cover under the policy for the issuing of the
notice. So Ms D would need to reissue it herself. It would then find another solicitor to
confirm its validity.
But her policy was due to expire in April. And, as the insured event would be the tenant not
vacating on expiry of the revised notice, Ms D would need to renew her policy if she wanted
cover for that. I understand Ms D in fact took out cover elsewhere and her tenant left the
property at the expiry of his tenancy agreement on 16 April 2022.
Our investigator didnt think it was reasonable to expect Ms D to have continued with the
existing panel firm and said Amtrust should arrange for a different firm to assist her. She also
said it should reimburse any legal expenses shed incurred in line with the terms of her
policy.
Amtrust didnt agree. It thought that the offer the panel firm had made to put right its error
was reasonable and if Ms D had accepted it was likely possession of the property could
have been achieved earlier.
Ms D said the loss shed incurred was having to take out another legal expenses policy in
order to obtain further advice. And her tenant had caused more damage during the
additional time he was in the property which would have been prevented but for the errors
she believed Amtrust had made. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
I appreciate this has been an extremely distressing and stressful situation for Ms D. From
the correspondence Ive seen its clear she had some difficult health and personal issues to
deal with while the problems with her tenant were ongoing. I was very sorry to learn of these
and I know this will have been a particularly challenging time for her.
However, it does seem to me a number of her complaint issues relate to the actions of the
panel solicitors. I dont think its in dispute those solicitors did make some mistakes; theyve
acknowledged missing the error in the Section 21 notice Ms D drafted. But the question I
need to consider is whether her insurer - Amtrust - did anything wrong in dealing with the
claim she made to it.
Amtrust isnt responsible for the actions of the panel solicitors and those actions arent
something I can consider. If Ms D wants to pursue her concerns about what the panel firm
did she can make a complaint to that firm and possibly to the Legal Ombudsman if shes
unhappy with its response.
Ms Ds contact with Amtrust in March 2022
Ive considered first whether Amtrust should have done more to assist Ms D when she got in
touch with it in March 2022 (after the error with the Section 21 notice) had been identified. I
can understand why Ms D had lost confidence in the panel firm. But I dont think Amtrust
needed to appoint an alternative firm.
There wasnt cover under the policy for the claim Ms D was pursuing at that point so there
would have been nothing to appoint an alternative firm to do. I appreciate Amtrust had
previously asked the panel solicitors to check the validity of the Section 21 notice but that
isnt something which is covered by her policy. I think it was reasonable of Amtrust to
nevertheless offer an alternative firm to check the validity of any further notice Ms D issued.
Amtrust also said in order for cover to be provided for any claim Ms D subsequently wanted
to make following expiry of that notice shed need to renew her policy. Her policy defines an
insured event as the incident or the start of a transaction or series of incidents which may
lead to a claim or claims being made under the terms of this Insurance.
So if the insured event in this case was the tenants non-compliance with the Section 21
notice Ms D would need to have cover in place at the point that happened. I appreciate Ms D
says she wouldnt have needed to renew if the panel solicitors had spotted the error in the
notice but thats something shed need to raise as part of a complaint against that firm; it isnt
something Amtrust is responsible for.
Ms Ds initial claim
Turning to what happened earlier in the claim I can see there was some initial discussion
between Amtrust and Ms D about the information that was required to support this. I dont
think it was unreasonable of Amtrust to request those details from her. And its a condition of
her policy that any claim has prospects of success. In relation to that it says:there must be more than a 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive
outcome the assessment of Your claim and the prospects of its success will be carried out
by an independent Adviser. If the Adviser determines that there is not more than a 50%
chance of success then We may decline or discontinue support for Your case.
So I think it was right Amtrust referred the matter to panel solicitors for them to consider. I
recognise Ms D is unhappy with the contact she then had with the panel firm but that isnt
something I can consider.
However, I do have concerns about the basis on which Amtrust asked the panel firm to
consider the claim. I can see the correspondence it sent it at the time focussed on issuing
notices in relation to a claim for rent arrears. But the information Ms D sent didnt reference
that issue; her concerns were around other breaches of the tenancy agreement (for example
damage caused to the property and the tenant not allowing access in order for these to be
rectified). It appears the panel solicitors didnt advise on these issues because Amtrust didnt
instruct them to do so.
And Amtrust subsequently told Ms D that only a claim for rent arrears would be covered
under the policy. But I dont think thats right. Her policy covers adviser costs to pursue:
a) Legal Action against a Tenant or Guarantor to recover possession of the Insured
Property where the Tenant fails to perform his obligations set out in the Tenancy
Agreement relating to the rightful occupation of the Insured Property
It doesnt limit the cover to a breach relating to rent arrears. However, a claim for possession
relating to a tenant breaking a non-rental obligation of their tenancy would require a judge to
decide whether it was reasonable to grant possession. So I think Amtrust should have asked
the panel solicitors to consider whether a claim on that basis would have had prospects of
success.
As that hasnt been done its not clear whether that would have been the case or not. But
even if it was Ms Ds key concern here is the length of time her tenant remained in the
property (and the additional damage she believes he caused during that period). So Ive
thought about whether, if this aspect of her claim had been properly considered by Amtrust,
the tenant would have left significantly sooner than he actually did.
I can see after Ms D made her claim to Amtrust she had some health and personal problems
that impacted her ability to pursue it. Ms D wasnt able to respond to all of the emails from
the panel solicitors and told them in October she didnt have capacity to deal with the
eviction. She asked for the matter to be put on hold until January (and contacted the
solicitors again towards the end of December).
Given that, even if Amtrust had agreed to fund a possession notice in relation to the broader
tenancy issues, its unlikely that would have been issued until early January. And looking at
the timeframes for that process (including how long it would take for a court hearing to be
arranged) I think a possession order (if granted) is likely to have expired at roughly the same
time Ms Ds tenant actually left her property.
As a result I dont think any additional damage caused to her property by the tenant has
come about because of the failing by Amtrust Ive identified. And it doesnt appear Ms D did
incur any legal costs in evicting her tenant because he left at the end of his tenancy. I
appreciate Ms D took out legal expenses cover with a different provider to obtain general
legal advice on her position. But I dont think that represents a loss to her. If she wanted to
have ongoing cover for the risks covered by a legal expenses policy she would always need
to have done that either with Amtrust or another insurer.However, I do think Ms D has been caused some distress and inconvenience by what
Amtrust got wrong. She made numerous references to the damage issue in her
correspondence with Amtrust. So there has been a lost opportunity to consider all aspects of
the claim she made. If Amtrust had provided clear instructions to the panel solicitors at the
outset and subsequently provided correct advice to Ms D about what her policy covered
shed have been clear about what the position was on this issue. And Ive already identified
this was in itself a particularly difficult time for her. Taking all of that into account I think
Amtrust should pay Ms D £200 to recognise the impact of what it got wrong on her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms D didnt respond to my provisional decision. Amtrust did respond. It said the information 
sent to the panel solicitors included the claim form which referenced access problems and 
damage. As a result they would have been aware of this and it was discussed in 
correspondence between them and Ms D. 
So Amtrust thought the panel firm had considered these aspects of the claim as they related 
to potential legal action to gain vacant possession; their assessment wasnt limited to the 
rent arrears issue. It thought the claim had been handled in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the information Amtrust sent to the panel firm did include the claim form and 
there was discussion between that firm and Ms D where it sought further information about 
the issues highlighted in it. But the covering letter Amtrust sent with its instructions only 
referenced the issues of the rent arrears and requested action in relation to that. 
When Ms D then discussed matters over email with the panel firm in December 2021 it told 
her it had been instructed to send correspondence in relation to the rental breach. And it 
would need Amtrust to confirm whether there was cover for the other issues Ms D wanted to 
pursue. So I dont think Amtrust are right to say these issues were assessed by the panel 
firm.
Ms D then contacted Amtrust to find out if she was covered for these issues and it told her 
that as her tenant was no longer in rent arrears they were not failing the obligations of their 
tenancy agreement. But as I explained in my provisional decision the policy doesnt limit 
cover for possession to a breach relating to rent arrears and Ms D was clearly alleging there 
were other breaches of the agreement. So I continue to feel Amtrust should have instructed 
the panel solicitors to consider whether a possession claim relating to those other breaches 
would have had reasonable prospects of success.
For the reasons Ive already explained I dont think any additional damage caused to Ms Ds 
property by the tenant would have been prevented even if Amtrust had done that. But I do 
think Ms D has been caused some distress and inconvenience by what Amtrust got wrong 
and that £200 is the right amount to recognise that. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to put things right by 
paying Ms D £200. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman