DRN-4179678
The complaint
Mr S complains that Yorkshire Building Society agreed a temporary Interest only plan with 
his recently divorced wife without his agreement.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Yorkshire on their family home in 2014. Mr S and his 
wife are joint mortgage holders with Yorkshire. In early 2021 Yorkshire says that Mr S called 
to say that as he no longer lived in the property that he would no longer be making the 
mortgage payments and was going through a divorce. Yorkshire says that the payments 
were up to date until September 2022 when the second account holder contacted Yorkshire 
to say that she had difficulty making the payments. Yorkshire said that it agreed a temporary 
interest only payment plan to assist her with the payment of the mortgage.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part as Yorkshire 
should have looked to obtain Mr Ss prior consent. She believed that £150 represented fair 
compensation but said that there was no financial loss. Mr S disagrees saying in summary 
that Mrs S wasnt complying with the matrimonial courts decision about the sale of the 
property. Yorkshire accepted our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises out of a matrimonial break-up. As I understand it Mr S had left the 
matrimonial home in early 2021. There appear to have been divorce and other legal 
proceedings arising out of the break-up of the marriage, and Ive seen a court order made in 
September 2022 dealing with the matrimonial home. Relevant to this complaint is that Mrs S 
was responsible for discharging the full monthly mortgage repayments and that the home 
was to be sold and the proceeds of sale divided between them in a certain ratio.
Although Mrs S was responsible for the payment of the mortgage as between her and Mr S, 
they were both responsible under the terms of the mortgage for payment of it. So, any 
changes in the payment structure of the mortgage should have been discussed with Mr S. 
Indeed, Yorkshire recorded this as a flag on the account which said that any changes 
needed the consent of both parties. Yorkshire agrees that it failed to inform Mr S through 
human error although he was made aware of the situation shortly afterwards as a letter went 
to him because of a difficulty with a direct debit involving the new arrangement.
So, as Yorkshire failed to inform Mr S, I agree that this application should be upheld. 
Yorkshire says that this was done to benefit both parties as if the payments werent made 
and they hadnt agreed the arrangement, it would have affected both their credit files if the 
mortgage payments went into arrears. I can understand the reasoning there and that it may 
have been to Mr Ss benefit despite him not knowing about it. I note that Mr S feels that 
instead of selling the house under the terms of the court order that Mrs S got this temporary 
arrangement with the bank. But it doesnt seem to me that the temporary arrangement 
prevents the sale of the property  it was after all only a short-term payment arrangement. 
Indeed, if it prevented arrears appearing on his credit file, it may have been to Mr Ss 
financial advantage. So, my view is that Mr S was understandably upset by Yorkshires 
failure, through it says human error, to see whether he consented to the temporary interest 
only arrangement and should be compensated for that. I agree that the sum of £150 is 
appropriate. 
Ive noted that the court order requires Mrs S to pay the full monthly mortgage repayments 
and under the terms of the agreement with Yorkshire she would seem to have paid less than 
the full mortgage repayments for that period. But the enforcement of the terms of the court 
order between Mr S and Mrs S isnt a matter for Yorkshire and its not my role to interfere 
with the jurisdiction of the court dealing with the matrimonial breakdown and any alleged 
breaches of the terms of a court order. So, I dont propose making a further award in this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr S £150.
My final decision
I uphold his complaint in part and require Yorkshire Building Society to pay Mr S £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman