DRN-4253359
The complaint
Mr R complains about poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC relating to his mortgage. He 
wants Barclays to explain why this keeps happening.
What happened
Mr R has had a mortgage with Barclays for some years. He had financial difficulties and 
Barclays agreed a payment arrangement for six months. When this ended he spoke to 
Barclays again. 
Mr R says it difficult to get to speak to anyone, and Barclays didnt call him when it promised 
to do so on more than one occasion. He says its communication is poor and it changes what 
it says is possible which makes it impossible to plan. Mr R says he receives threatening 
letters, the call handlers are working from home and not interested in helping him and he 
believes they mocked him when he broke down under pressure during a call. Barclays sent 
a letter incorrectly saying Mr R had broken his payment arrangement. 
Barclays accepted that Mr R spent a long time on the phone trying to reach the home 
assistance team and didnt receive a promised call back. It offered Mr R £150 for poor 
service.
Our investigator said Barclays should have been aware that Mr R was vulnerable and 
ensure he received the correct level of customer service. Our investigator said Barclays 
should make notes on Mr Rs account to ensure it provides an appropriate service in future. 
He said Barclays should pay £250 compensation (in total), which Barclays agreed to do. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he wanted Barclays to understand how this affects his health and 
wellbeing. He said he didnt want to have to keep complaining about poor service just to be 
compensated financially with a pittance. He said hed made many calls to Barclays trying to 
reach an agreement to enable him to afford his mortgage payments and stay in his home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was unable to maintain his monthly mortgage payments and his mortgage had fallen 
into arrears. Barclays agreed a six-month payment arrangement which ended in late 2022. 
Mr R spoke to Barclays in January 2023 about agreeing a new arrangement. Mr R made a 
complaint about Barclays poor service, saying it didnt call him back when promised and sent 
a letter saying hed broken a payment arrangement. 
In response to our investigators view Mr R commented on his experience with Barclays over 
many years. I must be clear that the complaint Im considering here is the complaint Mr R 
brought to us in February 2023, about Barclays poor service. 
Barclays sent transcripts of Mr Rs calls during early 2023. Mr R told Barclays the property 
was on the market and he expected it to be sold by April 2023. Mr R said if the property 
didnt sell hed look at equity release later in 2023 when he reached the required age. 
Barclays carried out an income and expenditure discussion with Mr R in early January 2023. 
Based on this, it said hed only be able to afford to pay some of the interest each month. 
Barclays said it could only agree a less than interest only concession for three months, but 
could ask management to review this prior to it being renewed in March 2023. Mr R said he 
wanted a plan in place for six months.
Barclays called Mr R a couple of days later and offered an assisted voluntary sale. Mr R 
declined this. He said he was confident the property would sell and didnt want to pay a 
break fee to the estate agent hed appointed. 
In mid-January 2023, Barclays said it would put forward a proposal for a six-month less than 
interest only concession to management. The call handler said they were sure it would be 
approved, but theyd have to wait for confirmation. The call handler called Mr R again to say 
shed been told the proposal had to be approved by senior management (which Barclays 
refers to as the panel) and this could take up to 21 days. The call handler said it could be 
approved in less time, the panel could come back with different options or it could ask for 
further information.
The option the panel came back with in mid-February 2023 was an assisted voluntary sale. 
Mr R declined this. 
Barclays sent a final response letter dated 2 March 2023 upholding Mr Rs complaint about 
poor service. In particular, Barclays said that Mr R had long wait times when he called and 
didnt receive a call back when promised. Barclays apologised and offered compensation. 
Our investigator recommended that Barclays pay further compensation (to total £250) and 
make a note on Mr Rs account to ensure it provides an appropriate level of customer 
service. 
When considering if this is fair, Ive taken into account that this would have been a worrying 
time for Mr R. He had financial difficulties and by early 2023 Mr R had mortgage arrears of 
about £11,000. He couldnt afford payments that would cover the interest accruing. Hed 
been marketing the property for sale for some time and several sales had fallen through. 
Mr R told Barclays in early 2023 he couldnt access equity release to repay the mortgage 
balance, at least until late 2023. Mr Rs circumstances were difficult and his options were 
limited. This would have made long wait times or calls not being returned as promised all the 
more frustrating and upsetting.
Ive also taken into account that Barclays was in regular contact with Mr R. It discussed his 
circumstances with him and considered what support it could offer. By mid-January 2023 
Barclays proposed a less than interest only concession for six months (which its notes 
suggest Mr R was happy with). It made Mr R aware that this proposal would need approval 
by the panel and this could take some time. It also said the panel could ask for further 
information or respond with a different option. So while Mr R wasnt happy with the option 
offered (an assisted voluntary sale) I think Barclays made him aware that the panel could 
come back with a different option to the proposal put forward in January 2023.
In the circumstances, I think £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused by Barclays poor service. I appreciate that Mr R told Barclays he 
doesnt want compensation. I leave it to Mr R to decide whether to accept this.
If Barclays had the facility to add a note to Mr Rs account to ensure hes provided with 
appropriate service then it should do this.Mr R raised a new complaint with Barclays in mid-April 2023  that hed contacted Barclays 
in mid-March 2023 about porting part of the mortgage to another property and was waiting to 
be called back about this. As this wasnt part of the complaint when it was brought to us, I 
cant fairly look into this here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclay Banks UK PLC to pay £250 to 
Mr R. It can deduct any compensation already paid in relation to this complaint. It should add 
an appropriate note to Mr Rs account, as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman