DRN-2419697
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the actions taken by the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in 
February 2020, in relation to the joint accounts hed held with Mrs B. Hes said RBS actions 
caused them significant stress and inconvenience, which continued and increased over the 
following eight weeks that it took RBS to remove Mrs B from the joint account. Mr B is also 
unhappy that RBS didnt contact him at all, prior to taking action on the account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 December 2020 explaining that I was 
intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr B held two joint accounts with RBS in his name and Mrs Bs name. One of the 
accounts had an overdraft attached to it. On 27 February 2020 at 3pm, Mrs B 
received a text message from RBS saying that as shed entered into an IVA they 
were immediately closing the accounts. Their salaries were due to be paid into one of 
the accounts on the following day, and a large number of direct debits were due to 
leave that account imminently. The other joint account was closed.
Mrs B immediately contacted RBS, on the advice of her insolvency practitioner, but 
was told the funds wouldnt be available until Monday 2 March. Mr B says they were 
told to attend a branch to arrange for Mrs B to be removed from the account and 
withdraw cash from the account. However, during that appointment they were told 
their accounts were frozen so nothing could be done.
Over the next eight weeks, Mr B was required to phone RBS daily to request that the 
direct debits be manually processed. He says at times he was on the phone for more 
than an hour, waiting to be speak to someone in the insolvency department before 
the cut off time in the early afternoon. He received seven notifications during that 
time, to say that direct debit payments hadnt been received. On 20 April, Mrs B was 
removed from the account, and it became Mr Bs sole account. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and issued her view on 30 June 2020 
partially upholding the complaint. Overall, our investigator felt that RBS was trying to 
help Mr B and she thought RBS hadnt acted unreasonably. Our investigator did 
uphold the part of Mr Bs complaint that related to the time it took RBS to remove Mrs 
B from the joint account. She awarded £120 compensation for the delay because she 
thought it could have been done more quickly.
RBS accepted the view, but Mr B did not. He felt our investigator hadnt had regard to 
the way RBS had treated him and the impact that had on him. He said that he felt the 
level of distress hed suffered was far more than the £120 acknowledged and he 
didnt feel shed explained how shed arrived at the £120. 
Mr B requested an ombudsmans decision on his complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether the actions taken by RBS in relation to the joint 
accounts, were permitted by the Account Terms and Conditions and their Personal 
Insolvency Policy.
Paragraph 12.2 of the Account Terms and Conditions says RBS can close any 
account immediately if the account holder has entered into a voluntary arrangement 
with their creditors to repay their debts. As the account in question was a joint 
account, RBS could take that action, if either Mr B or Mrs B entered into an IVA. So, 
RBS was permitted by the Account Terms and Conditions, in the circumstances of 
Mrs B entering into an IVA, to close the accounts without notice.
Ive also considered RBS Personal Insolvency Policy and again, it seems that RBS 
have acted in line with that policy, as our investigator also commented.
However, RBS also have an obligation, under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) Principles for Businesses to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. RBS Financial Difficulties Referral Policy says that they will 
comply with that requirement by taking full account of the customers individual 
circumstances before considering the most suitable treatment. That means they need 
to treat the customer fairly, which I dont think theyve done in Mr Bs case.
In summary, RBS acted in line with the Account Terms and Conditions and their 
Personal Insolvency Policy in closing the accounts without notice and putting a stop 
on all transactions in and out of the accounts. But Mr and Mrs B had been customers 
of RBS for a number of years, so RBS would have been aware of the pattern of 
payments into and out of the joint account. When deciding to immediately close the 
joint accounts, in treating Mr and Mrs B fairly, I think RBS ought to have taken into 
consideration the imminent payment of Mr and Mrs Bs salaries into the account and 
the 34 direct debits that were scheduled to leave the account shortly after. I also think 
RBS should have realised, on Mrs B entering into an IVA, that the family was facing 
difficult financial circumstances which the IVA obligations could well accentuate. 
However, I havent seen evidence to suggest that RBS took any of these 
circumstances into account before sending a text message to Mrs B at 3pm in the 
afternoon before immediately freezing their joint accounts. 
RBS said theyd acted outside of their policy and helped Mr B by agreeing to remove 
Mrs B from the account, and by manually pushing through direct debits for Mr and 
Mrs B each time they phoned. However, I think RBS could have done more to help 
Mr B during this period.
Mr B told us they had to phone the insolvency department every day from 28 
February to 22 April to ask for their direct debits to be manually pushed through, 
sometimes having to hold for an hour or more. He didnt have access to internet 
banking so didnt know when the irect debits were due to go out of the account. The 
account statements show that direct debits left the account on 24 days during that 
period. When the direct debits werent successfully pushed through, as happened on 
7 occasions, Mr B had to then find alternative methods of making that payment, such 
as using his credit card. On 17 April they were told by the insolvency department that 
they really needed to have Mrs B removed from the account because they couldnt continue pushing the payments through each day, something theyd asked to be 
done almost two months prior. As a result of RBS taking two months to remove Mrs 
B from the account, Im currently of the view that Mr B was caused unnecessary 
inconvenience which I think he should be compensated for.
Mr B has provided a detailed explanation of how this impacted him during the two-
month period. He said that as a key-worker, he needed his car to perform his 
essential work, but a car insurance payment, and a car tax payment didnt go 
through, and he was anxious about whether or not hed have sufficient funds on his 
credit card to put fuel in his car to get to work. On one occasion his sons nursery fee 
payment was bounced. A council tax also payment was missed, leading to increased 
payments for the rest of the year. And on one occasion the direct debit payment for 
his credit card, which he was reliant on to pay for food and fuel was also unpaid, 
increasing his anxiety and worry.
He said that having to try and manage their family finances in this way, for an 
extended period of time caused him significant stress and anxiety. By early April, Mr 
B said he was at the point where he might not be able to continue working through 
stress and lack of sleep. He felt the calls from the IVA team were unhelpful and was 
worried that as a result of the way RBS was managing his account, hed need an IVA 
despite never missing a payment in his life. He said the account had sufficient funds 
for all of the payments, but RBS insisted they call every day, despite knowing the 
phones may not be answered in time, if at all, due to limited staffing. He and his wife 
were reduced to tears by the daily stress of trying to pay their bills in this way, their 
children were upset by the tension in the household and their marriage came under 
some considerable strain.
It took RBS nearly 8 weeks to remove Mrs B from the joint account. When asked 
about what a usual period of time would be for this to happen, RBS couldnt give a 
time frame, but said it would take 24 hours to update their back-office system. Two 
months after requesting that Mrs B be removed from the account, Mr B found out on 
22 April that the account was in his sole name, because Mrs B failed the security 
check on that day when she phoned to request the direct debit payments be 
manually pushed through.
Our investigator asked Mr B why he hadnt set up an account in his own name with 
RBS and had the direct debits transferred across when the accounts were first 
frozen. He said that possibility was mentioned at the outset, but he was told hed 
need to set up all of the 34 direct debits again. He felt that was too complex at a very 
stressful time for him, and he didnt want to risk missing mortgage or other important 
payments due to problems with re-scheduling all of the direct debits.
I said that I didnt think RBS had treated Mr B fairly during this time. I observed that he was 
left to struggle on with the joint account, having to follow insolvency department procedures 
to get money into and out of the account, for a period of two months. I said I was intending to 
award Mr B £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
I asked Mr B and RBS to let me have any final comments or arguments theyd like me to 
consider by 5 January 2021.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr B said he thought it included a fair account of 
events and addressed the points he felt were missed in the original view. He also said he felt 
the amount awarded, although lower than his calculated losses, takes into account that RBS 
did follow their own policies while failing on numerous other counts. He said he had nothing 
further to add.RBS responded to say that £750 seemed quite high but agreed that the delay was 
excessive. They also said that my comment to the effect that RBS should have done more to 
understand the spending pattern on the account was an unreasonable suggestion because 
that isnt something they do, and once theyre told about an IVA they have an obligation to 
put a freeze on the account, which the IVA practitioner should have warned Mr and Mrs B 
about. 
As Ive now received responses from both parties Ive decided its appropriate to proceed to 
issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the comments Ive received in response to my provisional decision. Mr 
B has accepted the provisional decision. And RBS has only commented that they felt the 
award of £750 seemed quite high, and they thought it was unreasonable of me to expect that 
they should have done more to understand the spending pattern on the account. Just to 
clarify, I wasnt intending to say that RBS should understand the detail of all of the 
transactions in and out of the account, however, as they were putting a freeze on the 
account at a time when both salaries were due to be paid into the account, I thought they 
should have factored that in to their decision to immediately freeze the account.
Having considered RBS and Mr Bs comments, I havent been persuaded to come to a 
different decision to that set out in my provisional decision.
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, and this decision, I uphold this 
complaint and require RBS to pay Mr B £750 for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered.
Putting things right
I require the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr B £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the way they managed the joint account during the 
two-month period.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay the award detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman