DRN-3192230
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the decisions of The Energy Saving Trust Limited in relation to a 
loan she had taken out to fund external wall insulation on her property.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs M took out a fixed-term interest-free loan via the Home Energy Efficiency 
Programmes for Scotland (HEEPS). This scheme is administered by The Energy Saving 
Trust Limited (EST). The loan was to partly fund external wall insulation on her property. She 
also received a grant at this time to fund the other part of these works. 
A few years later, during the term of the loan, Mrs Ms local council introduced further 
financial support for people in Mrs Ms street to install external wall insulation. Mrs M felt that 
as her neighbours were now able to carry out these works with no cost to themselves, she 
should not have to continue to repay the loan to EST. 
However, EST did not agree to cancel the loan. It said that the loan and grant funding Mrs M 
had received were the options available to her at the time the loan was entered. And that 
although different sources of funding might now be available, the decision to introduce those 
alternatives was not one EST made itself. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. But our Investigator didnt think EST had done 
anything wrong. She empathised with Mrs M, but said that the funding provided in 2015 was 
what was available to her and that she didnt think EST had to cancel the loan just because 
this situation had since change.
Mrs M remained unhappy and so her complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much like our Investigator, I do empathise with Mrs M and agree that she has found herself 
in an unfortunate position. She has indicated that had she decided to install the insulation at 
an earlier date, she would have received a larger grant. And had she decided to wait, she 
may have received full funding. 
However, the issue I have to determine is whether or not EST has done anything wrong. 
EST is responsible for administering the individual loans provided to applicants. It is not 
though responsible for making the wider funding decisions that are taken by the Scottish 
Government and Mrs Ms local authority. And so, the changes in the availability of funding 
for the measures Mrs M installed on her property were not those EST made and I cannot 
therefore hold it responsible for these changes or their timing.
EST provided Mrs M with lending which was based on the terms contained in the loan 
agreement. These required Mrs M to repay the borrowing. And they did not make provision 
for this borrowing to be written-off if alternative funding was made available elsewhere. So, 
in requiring Mrs M to repay the borrowing in line with the terms and conditions she agreed to, 
I consider EST acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman