DRN-1708479
 
The complaint
Mr E says Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about 14 payday loans Ferratum provided to Mr E between January 2018 
and August 2019. Mr E borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £500 to be repaid in 
one to four monthly instalments. There were no significant breaks in the chain of lending. 
From what I can see, Mr E repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint in part and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Ferratum didnt reply to the adjudicators view, and so 
the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Ferratum asked Mr E for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr E said his monthly income was £1,250. He said his monthly outgoings 
were £300. 
I think these affordability checks went far enough for loans one to four. For loans one to four, 
given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Es circumstances at the time and his 
history with Ferratum, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount 
of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr E provided or the information Ferratum shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr E was saying. These loans 
looked affordable for Mr E, so I cant say it was wrong for Ferratum to have provided them. 
But I think Ferratum should have made better checks for loan five. This was Mr Es fifth loan 
in eight months and the amount borrowed had increased. I think Ferratum should then have 
looked closely at Mr Es finances and verified what hed told it to check that he could 
sustainably repay his loan. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan five would most likely have 
shown that Mr E was having problems managing his money. I think if Ferratum had made 
better checks, it would have seen that Mr E had short-term loans with at least three other 
lenders when he asked for loan five. So I think Ferratum should have realised that Mr E 
would be unlikely to be able to sustainably repay loan five, or any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Ferratums lending history with Mr E, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Ferratum should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Es case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
eight. I say this because I think that by this point the pattern of borrowing showed that Mr E 
was persistently reliant on short-term loans:
By loan eight, Mr E had taken eight loans in eleven months. From loan eight onwards 
Mr E was provided with a new loan within days of settling a previous one. So 
Ferratum ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr E was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Es indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.Mr E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Ferratum. Loan 14 was 
taken out 19 months after Mr Es first. And it was for a similar amount. Mr E had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Ferratum over an extended 
period.
 
I think that Mr E lost out because Ferratum continued to provide borrowing from loan eight 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Es ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 14 and I think Ferratum should put things 
right. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr E, I think Ferratum should:
refund all interest and charges Mr E paid on loans 5 to 14;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Es credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 8 to 14 should be removed from Mr 
Es credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Es 
complaint. I require Ferratum UK Ltd to pay Mr E compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman