DRN-2094210
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) charged her a £20 fee 
for faster completion on her mortgage, despite her checking with her mortgage advisor 
beforehand that no fees would be charged. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all of them 
again here. But Ill outline the main points, and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Ms W took a mortgage for £71,000 with Nationwide, which completed on 18 February 2020. 
After the mortgage completed Ms W noticed that Nationwide had charged a £20 fee at the 
time of completion. She enquired about the fee with Nationwide and it explained that the fee 
had been charged due to the short timescale between receiving the instruction to release the 
funds to Ms Ws solicitor and the completion date, meaning itd had to use a faster method of 
payment.
Ms W disputes the fee. I note than the main thrust of her complaint is that she specifically 
asked about fees upon completion, and she was told there were none applicable. Shes also 
explained that she chose the specific completion date as the earliest available date without 
paying any additional fees. I note that Ms W has been very clear that she doesnt disagree 
with the principle of Nationwide charging fees in general  but instead, being given 
misleading information about which fees applied in her case. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. It said that it required 5 working days notice to 
release funds in time for the completion date. And it explained that it received the request to 
release funds on Friday 14 February 2020, ahead of the completion date of Tuesday 18 
February 2020. As this left less than 5 working days, it wasnt able to send the payment 
using a free BACS payment  which takes up to three working days  but instead sent the 
payment via CHAPS, which takes one day and costs £20.
Ms W didnt agree with Nationwides response. She explained that she instructed her 
solicitors on 12 February 2020 to arrange completion for 18 February 2020. And she 
reiterated that Nationwide gave her incorrect information about there being no fees involved 
with completion.
Our investigator considered Ms Ws complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
Whilst he understood Ms Ws frustration, he didnt think Nationwide had given Ms W 
incorrect information about the fees involved upon completion of the mortgage. And he didnt 
think Nationwide had acted unfairly by charging Ms W £20 for the payment it sent to her 
solicitor.
Ms W didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
It looks as though Ms W enquired about completion fees, and she says she was told there 
wasnt a fee for completion, or indeed to make completion happen more quickly. And I 
accept that Ms W was told this. Nationwides tariff of charges shows that a BACS payment 
upon completion, but a fee of £20 is payable for CHAPS payments. It says This can often 
be done for free via BACS, but the transfer will take 3 working days. So I dont think the fee 
is for the completion itself, but for the payment being sent via the faster CHAPS method, 
when this is necessary for completion to happen on the specified date. Looking at the tariff of 
fees and Ms Ws mortgage transactions, there are no charges applicable to completion itself. 
So I dont think Nationwide gave Ms W misleading information when it told her information to 
this effect.
Ms W also says that she enquired with Nationwide about the earliest date for completion 
without incurring any additional fees. And I note shes provided a brief chain of emails 
between her and the mortgage advisor at Nationwide. In summary, the emails confirm that 
Nationwide doesnt charge a fee for completion of a mortgage. It also tells Ms W 
Completion date should be arranged with your solicitors once they have completed all of 
their checks. They then notify Nationwide of the completion date and when we shall release 
the funds. Ms W replies, enquiring whether Nationwide needs some time between being 
notified of the completion date, and releasing the funds. The Nationwide advisor replies 
we will set up release of funds to ensure you have these in time for completion. The 
solicitors will send confirmation of the completion date a few days before to allow us 
processing time.
I do understand there seems to have been some confusion about what Ms W was asking  
so the answer she received isnt as specific as it couldve been. But I havent concluded that 
based on this chain of emails, that Nationwide treated Ms W unfairly or misinformed her, nor 
that shed have taken a different course of action even if shed been told about the £20 
CHAPS fee.  
I say this because following this email discussion, Ms W says she instructed her solicitors on 
12 February 2020 to complete the purchase on 18 February 2020. And had the instruction 
been passed to Nationwide on that day, I dont think this issue wouldve arisen. 
From what Ive seen, Ms Ws solicitor sent the request for Nationwide to release the 
mortgage funds on 14 February 2020. As 14 February fell on a Friday, and 18 February fell 
on a Tuesday, this left only two working days for Nationwide to process the release of funds. 
Its unfortunate that Nationwide received the payment instruction two days later than when 
Ms W agreed the completion date with her solicitor, but I dont think Nationwide was wrong 
to follow the instruction it had received and send a CHAPS payment to meet the completion 
date. Ms W may wish to discuss the delay between 12 February and 14 February with her 
solicitor. But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for that delay, nor for charging the fee it 
charged.
Id like to reassure Ms W that Ive thought very carefully about what shes said, but having 
done so, I dont uphold this complaint because I havent concluded that Nationwide treated 
Ms W unfairly. I do understand Ms Ws strength of feeling about this matter and Im sorry to 
disappoint her.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman