DRN-4011088
The complaint
Mr A, who is a director of B, has complained on Bs behalf about the delay in Arthur J.
Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) providing a refund after he cancelled Bs motor trade insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a Motor Trade Road Risks policy to cover B, which started on 8 October 2021.
He then cancelled the policy on 21 October 2021. AJG told him it would take six to eight
weeks to provide the refund of premium due. This actually took until 27 January 2022. Mr A
complained about this. AJG apologised it had taken so long and paid B £100 for the
inconvenience this had caused and for any interest it had lost.
Mr A remained dissatisfied and asked us to consider Bs complaint. One of our investigators
did this. She said it had taken too long for AJG to provide the refund to B. She pointed out
that B had not made it clear to Mr A that it could take a lot longer than six to eight weeks to
get a refund when he took out the policy or when he cancelled it. She said AJG should pay B
an additional amount in interest to compensate it for the fact it had waited far too long to
receive the premium refund in a period where it was already struggling financially.
AJG didnt agree with the investigator. They thought theyd already paid enough in
compensation to cover any inconvenience and interest. And they asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. This is
because, whilst I agree with our investigator that AJG should have been clearer with Mr A
when he took out his policy and when he cancelled it on how long it could be before B
received its premium refund, I think theyve already paid enough in compensation.
The length of time it took for AJG to pay Mr A was due to how long it had to wait for the
insurer to provide the refund to them. Therefore, it was outside of their control. I appreciate
Mr A thinks it was far too long and that this caused B financial difficulties. But this was really
due to the insurer and I cant consider their actions in this complaint. If Mr A wants to make a
complaint to the insurer about this on Bs behalf, he can do so.
AJG paid B £100 in compensation and they made it clear this covered inconvenience and
interest. This was because they accepted they didnt manage Mr As expectations properly.
Bearing in mind I wouldnt have expected AJG to provide a refund to B until theyd received
one from the insurer, I think £100 is reasonable and in line with what Id expect to cover
inconvenience and interest. Therefore, I dont think its appropriate for me to award any
more.
I gave both parties until 8 March 2023 to provide further comments or evidence. 
Neither party has provided further comments or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided further comments or evidence, I see no reason to depart from 
what I provisionally decided was the fair and reasonable outcome to Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision my final decision is that I dont uphold Bs 
complaint about Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman