DRN-2384648
The complaint
Miss W complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited declined her request to return a car that 
has been subject to a number of faults. 
What happened
In March 2019 MotoNovo supplied a car to Miss W under a five year hire purchase 
agreement. The car was eight years old and had around 76,000 miles at the point of supply. 
Miss W has explained that within a few days of supply she had to return the car to the dealer 
who replaced the radiator. 
In May 2019 Miss W experienced further problems after a warning light showed and her car 
went into limp mode. The car was looked at by the dealer and they carried out a 
regeneration of the diesel particulate filter (DPF). The car was then returned to Miss W. 
In February 2020 Miss W experienced further problems with the DPF and paid for a 
diagnostic test to be completed. The dealer says it carried out a further DPF regeneration 
and test drove the car without finding any faults. 
Miss W took the car to a third party garage in May 2020 and it fitted a new DPF sensor but 
has told our investigator it had difficulties completing the DPF regeneration process. 
Miss W reported further problems with the car in July 2020 and the dealer recommended 
she take it to a specialist. 
Miss W complained and MotoNovo instructed a third party engineer to carry out an 
inspection of the car. The engineer found problems with the DPF but didnt agree they was 
present at the point of supply. The report advised it wouldnt have been possible for Miss W 
to have continued using the car over the long term with the DPF faults the engineer found. 
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ws complaint but didnt agree the DPF 
problems she most recently reported were present at the point of supply and didnt ask 
MotoNovo to take any further action. Miss W responded and explained she had also 
complained about a faulty exhaust gas recirculation valve (EGR). The investigator 
considered this issue as well but didnt agree the fault was present at the point of supply and 
didnt think MotoNovo needed to take any further action to resolve the matter. 
Miss W asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement which is a 
regulated activity this service can consider complaints about. The Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) applies in this case and says goods must be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider 
to be satisfactory. Information like the description of the goods, price, condition on supply 
and durability, as well as other relevant factors, into account when considering whether a 
vehicle is of satisfactory quality. 
As Ive said above, the CRA says, for something to have been of satisfactory quality the age, 
price and condition of the item at the point of supply need to be considered. MotoNovo 
supplied Miss W with a used vehicle that was eight years old and had covered around 
76,000 miles. The overall price for the vehicle was around £7,300 taking a part exchange 
Miss W made into account. I think most reasonable people would expect a car of that nature 
to be of a different standard to a brand new car. 
In this case, Miss W initially returned the car to the dealer and it replaced the radiator. That 
issue was quickly resolved. The first issue experienced with the DPF filter occurred in May 
2019 and the dealer completed a regeneration process that appear to have fixed the issue. 
Miss W was able to use the car until February 2020 before she experienced problems with 
the DPF again. 
The dealer says it was unable to resolve the problems and repairs were carried out by 
another garage a few months later. Miss W has told us the problem persisted which is why 
she complained. MotoNovo instructed a third party to carry out an inspection. The inspection 
report concluded the car does have a fault with the DPF system. But it said the second DPF 
fault manifested after Miss W had driven a further 5,000 miles over a period of around nine 
months. The engineers opinion was that the DPF issues Miss W reported were unrelated 
and that the fault was not present when the car was supplied. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss W as I can see her car has experienced problems, but for me to 
uphold her complaint Id need to be satisfied that the fault shes reported was present or 
developing when MotoNovo supplied the car. Its clear the car has suffered DPF issues, but 
Im not persuaded the issues make the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality. I note the engineers 
report we have on file says the fault had most likely developed during the period after Miss 
W purchased the car. I think its more likely that the car has developed the fault over time, in 
line with its age and condition.
Miss W reported an EGR fault to MotoNovo in August 2020 and complained. MotoNovo 
looked at Miss Ws complaint and said she had been in possession of the car for around 18 
months without experiencing the EGR fault. MotoNovo said that, because of the length of 
time, Miss W would need to supply evidence that the EGR fault was present at supply. 
I note the inspection carried out when Miss W raised concerns about the DPF failed to 
identify any issues with the cars EGR. And Miss W hasnt provided any supporting evidence 
to show the EGR fault was likely present at the point of supply. I havent found grounds to 
tell MotoNovo to allow Miss W to return the car or end the hire purchase agreement early. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and information but I havent been persuaded that 
either the DPF or EGR issues Miss W has experienced were present at the point of supply. 
As Im satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied and that MotoNovo has 
dealt with Miss Ws complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman