DRN-3546650
The complaint
Mr F has complained that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED are recording his 
address incorrectly and refusing to correct it.
What happened
In summary, Mr F reported that his address was incorrect. TransUnion have added an a 
onto the property number, and he says there is no a. He also originally wanted TransUnion 
to add a suite number, but now accepts this isnt on the official version of his address. Mr F 
explained this hadnt yet affected his credit, but he wants his file to be accurate.
TransUnion said they got the address data from Mr Fs local authority and the Royal Mail. 
They said theyd need evidence from Mr Fs local authority to authorise an address change, 
and they werent willing to contact them themselves as theyd found councils to be difficult to 
deal with. But Mr F pointed out he wasnt registered with his local authority as he was not on 
the electoral roll or responsible for the council tax bill. And the Royal Mails public database 
did not list the a version of his property number as a valid address.
Our investigator tried to resolve things, but TransUnion declined to check they were holding 
the right data, or to correct it. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked 
TransUnion for further information and gave them extended time, but they did not reply.
I sent Mr F and TransUnion a provisional decision on 18 May 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think its most likely that TransUnion got things wrong here 
 Ill explain why.
TransUnion say theyve taken Mr Fs address directly from his local authority. But from what 
I understand, Mr F is not on the electoral roll and is not the person responsible for council tax 
at his property. So the local authority wouldnt normally hold any address data for him. We 
asked TransUnion to give us a copy of the raw, unfiltered data they said theyd received from 
the council, but they declined to provide this. We also asked them to contact the council, 
inform them of this dispute, and ask for the most up-to-date correct address data. But they 
did not do this either. This is most concerning. TransUnion have a responsibility to report 
correct data and to raise disputes when the data is challenged. I do not find that they had 
any reasonable basis to refuse to help here.
TransUnion also say that the address theyve registered is valid based off the Royal Mails 
private address database. We asked them for evidence of this, such as an extract or 
screenshot, but they didnt provide this. And according to the Royal Mails public database, 
there is no a after Mr Fs property number, as hes said.
So as things stand, TransUnion have not provided any objective evidence to substantiate 
that theyre displaying the correct address for Mr F.
On the other hand, all the evidence Ive seen so far strongly indicates that there should be 
no a on Mr Fs property number. The other credit reference agencies and Mr Fs creditors 
have his property number without the a, and the Royal Mails public database also only has 
his address without the a. So the address TransUnion are listing does not appear to be 
valid, nor backed up by any other source.
So I currently think TransUnion need to correct Mr Fs file by removing the extraneous a 
from his property number. If they wish to dispute this, they will need to provide the evidence 
I asked for, and before the deadline of this provisional decision.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation as well  to 
acknowledge their error and the impact it had. Thankfully, I understand that this issue has 
not affected any credit applications of Mr Fs at present. But I think TransUnion have handed 
this issue poorly for him, which caused Mr F some real stress and inconvenience.
For example, TransUnion demanded Mr F provide evidence from his local authority when it 
doesnt look like it was possible for him to provide any, since he wasnt registered with his 
local authority. And they refused to contact his council themselves, which I find to have been 
unreasonable. If TransUnion find it difficult to correspond with Mr Fs local authority, then 
thats something they should sort out themselves  its not a problem they should pass onto 
Mr F. When a customer raises a dispute, I expect TransUnion to contact the data owner  
and if that was the council here, then TransUnion should have contacted the council here. 
I do not find that they had a valid reason to refuse to help. TransUnion also provided 
conflicting information which confused things, such as about what Mr Fs electoral roll status 
was. And they have not co-operated properly with our service, which delayed things even 
further. It has been quite a number of months now since Mr F started trying to sort this out, 
and TransUnion still have not fixed the problem. So I currently think they need to put all that 
right, too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said Id consider any further evidence or arguments either side wanted to give me  so 
long as I received it by 15 June 2022. 
TransUnion didnt add anything further.
Mr F explained he was pleased with the provisional decision, but wanted to point out that it 
appeared TransUnion were recording two different versions of his address. I understand 
his concern and acknowledge this. Per the provisional decision, TransUnion should make 
sure there is no duplicate address for Mr F.
Otherwise, neither side have sent me any materially new evidence or arguments. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.Putting things right
I direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to:
Correct the address on Mr Fs credit file, working with his local authority or any other 
relevant stakeholders where needed. This will involve removing the a from the 
property number and making sure there is no duplicate address.
Pay Mr F £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint, and direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to put 
things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman