DRN-3233049
The complaint
Mr A complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr A was given two loans by TFS. He borrowed £6,000 in May 2017 that he agreed to repay 
in 36 monthly instalments. But around six months later he refinanced that loan, and took 
some additional borrowing. So in November 2017 Mr A borrowed £7,500 and agreed to 
repay that loan in 48 monthly instalments. Mr A repaid his borrowing from TFS in 
January 2018.
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt have sufficient 
information to conclude that TFS shouldnt have given the first loan to Mr A. But he thought 
that TFS should have done more checks before agreeing the second loan. And he thought 
that better checks would have led the lender to conclude that Mr A was facing problems 
managing his money. So he didnt think the second loan should have been agreed and he 
asked TFS to pay Mr A some compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr A accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr As complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave these loans to Mr A required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr A undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr A.
TFS gathered some information from Mr A before it agreed each loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
When Mr A applied for the first loan he was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. 
He would need to make monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was 
right that TFS wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Mr As financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive 
described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think TFSs checks before agreeing 
the first loan were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. Or, in some cases, the results 
might lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
Mr As credit file showed that he had faced significant problems managing his money in the 
past. The credit check showed that he held nine defaulted accounts that remained unsettled 
and with a total balance of more that £6,000. I accept that those defaults had occurred a 
number of years before. And Mr A explained that they were really debts owed by his 
ex-partner and so a Court had decided that she should repay them rather than Mr A. But 
ultimately those debts remained on Mr As credit record and so might have caused some 
concerns to TFS.
In terms of active credit, Mr A appeared to be making his repayments on time. He told TFS 
that he wanted to use its loan to consolidate two other loans. One of those loans appeared 
on Mr As credit file  but the other didnt. So TFS was entirely reliant on what Mr A had said 
about the existence of that loan, its outstanding balance, and the repayments that he needed 
to make. Otherwise, Mr A had three active credit card accounts that were all approaching 
their agreed credit limits  two of those accounts had only been opened three months 
before.So overall, I think there was enough of concern to make it right that TFS should have 
gathered some additional information to satisfy itself that Mr As finances were sufficient to 
support the new loan repayment. But although I think TFS should have gathered some 
additional information, that in itself doesnt mean that Mr As complaint about the first loan 
should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that the additional information would have 
shown TFS that Mr A couldnt sustainably afford the first loan.
We asked Mr A for copies of his bank statements for the three months before the first loan 
was agreed. At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact 
check that TFS should have carried out. I do think TFS needed further information to 
corroborate what Mr A said was happening with his finances. And looking at his bank 
statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course many other ways that 
level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Mr As bank statements 
I could get a good idea of what further checks might have shown.
Mr A hasnt been able to provide us with those statements. He has given us some bank 
statements for around two weeks before the loan was agreed. But I dont think that gives me 
enough to get a reasonable picture of what his financial circumstances were like at the 
relevant time. That means I cant say that if TFS had gathered further information it wouldve 
found that Mr A couldnt afford to repay the first loan. So I dont uphold this part of his 
complaint.
Around six months later, after Mr A had made 5 of the scheduled 36 monthly repayments, he 
asked to refinance the loan and take some additional borrowing. In total he asked to 
increase his loan to £7,500. As before I think that the checks TFS undertook were 
proportionate. But as I explained earlier, TFS also needed to react appropriately to the 
results of those checks.
I think Mr A asking to refinance his loan so soon after initially borrowing should have been of 
concern to TFS. And I think those concerns should have been heightened when its credit 
checks showed that Mr A hadnt used the proceeds of the first loan to consolidate his other 
borrowing as hed originally said he would. The new loan was declared as being required to 
repay two small credit card balances, but the remainder would be used to pay for a 
christening, birthday presents and Christmas. I think TFS should have had increasing 
concerns about Mr As finances and gathered some additional information.
I have been able to look at Mr As bank statements for the three months before the second 
loan was agreed. As I said earlier, I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TFS 
should have carried out. But his bank statements do give me an independent view of his 
finances at that time, and what TFS should have concluded from further checks.
Mr As bank statements show that he was heavily reliant on credit to support his day to day 
living costs. In the month before asking for the second loan hed taken two large short-term 
loans. And his bank statements show that he was spending a significant amount each month 
on what appear to be online gambling transactions  in October 2017 he spend around a 
fifth of his normal income on transactions of this nature.
Overall I think better checks should have led TFS to conclude that Mr A was facing serious 
problems managing his money when he applied for the second loan. I dont think it was 
reasonable to give that loan to him, and so TFS needs to pay Mr A some compensation.Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to give the second loan to Mr A in November 2017. So 
TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr A paid on the second loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to the 
second loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr As complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman