DRN-3757679
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has dealt with 
her property after taking possession action, and about fees and charges incurred on the 
mortgage account.
Mrs B is represented in the complaint by a relative, but for clarity I will refer to Mrs B 
throughout.
This decision follows a jurisdiction decision in which I decided that we can only consider 
events that occurred after 1 August 2019.
What happened
I will start by making some general points, setting out the scope of my review. I will 
summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several reasons 
for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the 
investigators letter dated 10 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no 
need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my 
decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mrs B being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my 
summary of what happened quite brief.
I must also explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine which issues are relevant and what 
evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions 
which Mrs Bs representative would like answered, its not my role to put those questions to 
RBS or act as a representative or go-between on this case.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The events leading up to the complaint are as follows.
Mrs Bs mortgage was taken out in May 2008 for £50,350 over a term ending in January 
2015, on an interest-only basis. When the term expired Mrs B did not have a repayment 
vehicle in place to repay the outstanding balance. There was no application for a term 
extension and although Mrs B asked for consent to let in 2015, this was declined as the term 
had come to an end. It appears the property was rented out in any event.
In November 2018 RBS was granted a possession order, with the money claim adjourned.
Mrs B complained to RBS in 2019 regarding the possession action, the fact that no money 
judgment had been made, delays in taking possession and fees and interest charged on the 
account. A final response letter dated 31 July 2019 was issued, which did not uphold the 
complaint. The letter gave Mrs B six months from the date of that letter to complain to our 
service.
In April 2021 another complaint was raised. This was about the following:
although the property had been repossessed some years ago, the name on the Land 
Registry had not been changed;
a Subject Access Request (SAR) had not been delivered;
Mrs B was still disputing the issues raised in the 2019 complaint.
(The complaint about the SAR was subsequently resolved so I will make no further comment 
on this.)
RBS issued a final response letter dated 19 April 2021, in which the complaint wasnt 
upheld. Mrs B complained to our service. An investigator explained which parts of the 
complaint we couldnt look at. He didnt uphold any other part of the complaint. Mrs B asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mrs B has queried the investigators findings and 
raised a number of questions about the court proceedings and the handling of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I have issued a separate jurisdiction decision in which I have explained that 
I will only be looking at events that occurred after 1 August 2019. In that decision I also 
explained that any dissatisfaction about the legal action taken by RBS  including, but not 
limited to, the possession order, adjournment of the money claim, and applications for 
warrants of eviction  will need to be referred to the court which issued the possession order.
I must also reiterate what I said at the outset  which is that it is not up to either Mrs B 
(through her representative) or RBS to raise questions either for me or the other party to 
answer, or to try to direct the course of the investigation. Therefore, having noted all the 
questions raised on Mrs Bs behalf, I do not intend to respond to these, as Im not required 
to.
In relation to events after 1 August 2019, I can see that there were difficulties taking 
possession of the property, with an eviction being abandoned in February 2020 after the 
tenant refused to leave. Because of the presence of squatters, RBS first had to seek permission from the County 
Court to transfer the matter to the High Court, and then proceed through the High Court for a 
Writ of possession. Although this was initially discussed in February 2020, the following 
month the UK was placed in lockdown and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) then 
placed a moratorium on mortgage lenders taking possession action. 
It wasnt until November 2021 that RBS was able to resume action to take possession of the 
property. The County Court granted approval in March 2022 and the application was 
submitted to the High Court in May 2022.
Whilst I agree that matters have taken longer than expected since August 2019, Im not 
persuaded that this is entirely the responsibility of RBS. Restrictions on taking action 
imposed by the FCA were out of the control of RBS. In addition, the presence of squatters 
meant that County Court bailiffs couldnt be instructed and the matter had to be escalated to 
the High Court.
Overall, Im not persuaded there were any avoidable delays by RBS in trying to take 
possession of the property after 1 August 2019. 
As far as costs are concerned, Mrs B is correct that there is no money judgement against 
her. However, the mortgage terms and conditions provide that Mrs B is responsible for 
continuing interest on the mortgage and costs incurred by RBS. Given this, Im satisfied that 
RBS is entitled to add fees, interests and expenses to the mortgage account.
Mrs B has queried why the property remains in her name at the Land Registry. Generally 
when a lender takes possession of a property and eventually sells it under the power of sale, 
it will use the Power of Attorney granted in the terms and conditions to enable it to sell the 
property, which remains in the borrowers name. This is standard industry practice and so 
there is nothing untoward in the property remaining in Mrs Bs name at the Land Registry.
There was a gap in RBS providing information to Mrs B between February 2020 and April 
2021, when a complaint was made. RBS also asked Mrs B to contact it to discuss arrears, 
but didnt update her on the eviction. However, Im not persuaded, given the moratorium in 
place, that there was much the bank could have told her about this. 
I am sure that this has been a stressful experience for Mrs B, but as I have concluded, 
delays since 1 August 2019 have largely been outside the control of RBS. I do think the bank 
could have been a bit more proactive in keeping Mrs B updated, but given that this was 
during the pandemic when the banks staffing resources were stretched, Im not persuaded 
this has resulted in any detriment. 
If Mrs B remains unhappy at about the court proceedings (including dealing with bailiffs or 
evidence provided to the court), she is free to raise those matters with the court; they are not 
issues I am able to comment on.
After careful consideration the evidence, Im unable to find that RBS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
I am told that in early 2022 RBS offered compensation of £250 for any upset Mrs B might 
have been caused, which she rejected. If Mrs B wants to accept this in full and final 
settlement of the complaint, she is free to contact RBS directly about this. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman