DRN-1872244
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Ageas Insurance Ltd has declined his claim for the repair of a nest 
of tables that were covered by an extended warranty policy.
What happened
Mr G purchased a nest of tables for £107.38 in February 2015, along with a Furniture Guard 
insurance policy. This cover was for five years. Mr G also purchased a dining table, but this 
wasnt part of the original complaint to the insurer and so I cant look at that issue here. 
In 2017, Mr G made a claim on this policy for repair, which was paid, and the tables were 
fixed. At that time, the insurer didnt tell Mr G that the indemnity limit on the policy had now 
been reached, and so future repairs or damage wouldnt be covered. 
In November 2019, Mr G made another claim on the policy for repair of the tables. He was 
told at this point that the indemnity limit had been reached and the claim was declined. Mr G 
is unhappy that he wasnt told in 2017 that this would happen, after he made the first claim. 
Mr G also said that this repair was needed because the repair in 2017 was faulty.
Ageas agreed that they should have told Mr G that the indemnity limit on his policy was 
reached in 2017. But, they say that this wouldnt have changed what happened in 2019. The 
claim would still not have been paid. They also said that they dont think the original repair 
could have been faulty since it was two years before this second claim.
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld but didnt think Ageas should 
have the pay out the claim from 2019. This is because the terms and conditions of the policy 
had been applied properly. The investigator also agreed with Ageas that the second claim 
wasnt linked to a faulty repair because the repair was two years before. But the investigator 
felt that the delay in telling Mr G that the indemnity limit had been reached caused him some 
inconvenience. So, the investigator believed Ageas should pay Mr G £30 compensation.
Ageas agreed with this view. Mr G felt that £30 was not enough, and Ageas should fix his 
nest of tables. Mr G asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
Level of indemnity
We will pay for cleaning, repairs, part or full replacement up to a maximum of £10,000 for 
damaged furniture or up to the original purchase price of either article, whichever is the lower 
in settling any one claim or in total of all claims made during the period of insurance. 
And:
When Cover Ends
Cover will terminate immediately, and you will lose all rights to the benefits under your 
Certificate of Insurance:
5. Following payment(s) and/or cost incurred by the insurer in relation to any one claim or 
the total of all claims, made by you throughout the insurance period, reaching the limit of 
indemnity.
The original purchase price was £107.38 and so this is the total that can be claimed over the 
five years of the policy term. Ageas told us, and Mr G, that each repair has a cost of a 
minimum of £80. This means that there could only ever have been one claim for repair of 
these tables under this policy. Mr G made this claim in 2017.
I do think that Ageas had a duty to tell Mr G in 2017 that the tables were no longer covered 
for future repairs. This would have let him make an informed choice about any other cover 
he wanted to take out. But, I dont think this means that they had a duty to pay claims that 
arent covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. I do think that the terms and 
conditions are clearly worded and that someone reading them can see when the cover 
would end. 
For all of these reasons, I agree with the view of the investigator and award Mr G £30 
compensation for the inconvenience this has caused. I believe this amount is fair as the 
inconvenience caused by the delay was relatively minor. I understand that not having his 
tables fixed causes Mr G much more inconvenience than the delay.
Putting things right
For all of these reasons, I agree with the view of the investigator and award Mr G £30 
compensation for the inconvenience this has caused. I believe this amount is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Ageas Insurance Ltd to pay Mr G £30 in compensation 
for the inconvenience caused to him by their delay in communication. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Deborah Hall
Ombudsman