DRN-3045484
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) wont pay for
damage caused to his motorbike.
What happened
Mr J had an accident on his motorbike and contacted Advantage, his motorbike insurer, to
make a claim. Advantage said they thought it would be written off, but as Mr J didnt want
that to happen, he told Advantage he didnt want to pursue the claim at that stage.
In error Advantage didnt cancel the collection of the motorbike by their agent. And when
returning it to Mr J, the motorbike fell over during transit, which Mr J says caused additional
damage.
Mr J complained to Advantage about this, they offered £50 compensation for failing to cancel
the collection and it being collected in error. They later increased this to £100. They also
offered £160 (via their collection agents) toward repairing the damage to the exhaust only.
They said the other damage happened in the accident, rather than during transit when it was
dropped.
Mr J was unhappy with this, as he says the damage caused during transit is more extensive,
and he wants Advantage to pay for all the repairs. So he asked the Financial Ombudsman
Service to investigate.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that its not been
possible to determine what damage was caused during the accident and what was caused
when the bike was dropped. So she said Advantage should pay for the full cost of repairs
totalling £620.09.
Advantage didnt agree. They said that Mr J always intended on repairing the motorbike so
wouldve incurred costs in doing so. And as the damage cant be distinguished between
what was accident related or caused during recovery, they made an increased offer of half
the invoice, minus the £160 already offered which they said would be £230.04.
Mr J rejected this increased offer. And our investigator still felt Advantage should cover the
full cost of the repairs.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
I provisionally reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I reached my 
final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Advantage shouldve cancelled the recovery of Mr Js 
motorbike, and because they didnt, it then led to the collection, and subsequently the 
motorbike falling over whilst in transit allegedly causing additional damage.
The dispute here centres around how much damage Advantage is responsible for, 
and how much was accident related and therefore not their responsibility. Its 
impossible to determine precisely what was accident damage and what was damage 
caused during transit.
Where I have unclear information, I have to decide on balance whats most likely to 
have occurred, and whats a fair and reasonable resolution to both parties in all the
circumstances.
The bike fell over onto the same side it was damaged during the accident. The repair
estimate Mr J has provided totals around £620.09 for damage down that one side.
Ive seen images from after the accident and before return and after it was returned 
(and dropped). The post return images are relatively clear in showing the bike is 
damaged and the areas. The pre-return images are much less clear. But it does 
appear that there was at least a small amount of damage present in the first image 
before it was returned, which is also present in the second too. But its impossible to 
determine based on the lack of clarity of the images provided precisely what was 
solely due to being damaged during return.
However, given the accident damage was on the same side of it being dropped, on 
balance, Im minded to say that at least some of the damage needing repairing was 
caused in the accident beforehand. If Mr J wasnt claiming for the accident repairs 
under his policy, and always intended to carry out those accident related repairs 
himself, then hed always have had the cost associated with that.
And even if additional damage was then caused to those same accident damaged 
areas when it was later dropped in transit, Mr J would always have had the cost of 
this based on that original damage anyway. So it wouldnt be fair to say that 
Advantage should pay for those parts, if they wouldve always needed replacing due 
to accident damage  regardless if Advantages agent caused some more damage to 
them.
But its not possible for me to determine with absolute certainty what is solely 
accident related and what is solely damage during the return. So in the absence of 
being able to determine it with certainty, I need to decide what a fair and reasonable 
resolution would be for both parties.
Given I cant say that Advantage is solely responsible for the damage caused, and 
its most likely at least some damage wouldve been accident related and the 
responsibility of Mr J regardless, Im not minded to conclude Advantage should pay 
the full amount.Advantage made an increased offer following our investigators assessment of 
things. Here I think Advantage made an error in their calculations. They said theyd 
offer half the invoice cost, minus the £160 theyd already offered, which they said 
would be £230.04 which was then offered to Mr J (which he rejected). But given the 
repair invoice is £620.09, then half minus the £160 already paid would be £150.05.
However, even though it appears Advantage has miscalculated the amount, I still 
think the amount it offered here, £230.04, is reasonable in the circumstances. I dont 
think a 50/50 split would be fair on Mr J here as Advantage intended, given I can only 
see minimal damage due to the clarity of the photo pre delivery.
So I think it would be fairer to award a higher amount than exactly half on balance 
that its likely more than half was damage caused when the bike was dropped during 
return. And this amount gives Mr J a higher contribution than half, but also takes into 
account that at least some of the damage would be accident related that hed be 
responsible for. So unless anything changes as a result of the response to my 
provisional decision, I think that would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Advantage paid £50 compensation for failing to cancel the original recovery 
instruction, and an additional £50 for how they had handled things. And I think thats 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances for the service received. Unless 
anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im minded 
to say that the compensation already offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Advantage to pay Mr J an additional 
£230.04, on top of the £160 already offered. I wasnt minded to say Advantage should pay 
further compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Advantage didnt respond or provide any further comments for me to consider when 
reaching my final decision.
Mr J responded accepting my provisional decision. He also said that hes spent more than 
just the invoice presented to Advantage in repairing his bike, including the other damage 
associated with the accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive carefully thought about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, and as neither party has provided any comments which change my provisional 
findings, Ive reached the same outcome, and for the same reasons.
Therefore my decision remains the same, that the compensation of £100 already offered by 
Advantage is reasonable in the circumstances for the service Mr J received. But in addition 
to the £160 already offered towards repairs, Advantage need to pay Mr J a further £230.04.My final decision
Its my final decision that in addition to the £100 compensation and £160 already offered 
towards repairs, I direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr J an additional £230.04.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman