DRN-2951499
The complaint
Mr L complains about the information that he was given by Zopa Limited when he asked it 
about an early settlement of his fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
Mr L applied to Zopa online for a £16,000 loan and he entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Zopa in December 2017. The amount of credit provided to him was £18,300, 
which included a borrower fee of £2,300. Mr L says that he was told that there would be no 
fee for settling the loan early but when he contacted it in March 2020 he was given an early 
settlement quote which included the borrower fee. 
He complained to Zopa. It said that the process is entirely online and Mr L accepted the 
terms and conditions of the agreement. It said that the loan conditions can be viewed on the 
online account page and showed the amount of credit as £16,000, the borrowing fee of 
£2,300, interest charges of £7,577.46, the total amount payable of £25,877.46, the loan term 
of 60 months and the APR of 22.9% and the borrowing fee was included on the loan 
agreement  so it didnt agree that Mr L was charged the borrower fee without knowledge or 
that he was charged any interest incorrectly. It said that the borrowing fee was part of the 
contractual agreement and isnt a penalty charge for early settlement. It also described the 
allocation of payments towards capital and interest in accordance with the terms of the loan.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that the correct information was 
given to Mr L as there was nothing in the agreement or the terms and conditions which 
indicated that there was a fee for settling the agreement early. She said that the borrowing 
fee of £2,300 was applied at the beginning of the agreement and was included in the interest 
charge that had been applied to the agreement at the outset and it was the borrowing fee 
and the interest amount calculated together which provided him with the total amount 
payable. She felt that the repayment section of the agreement provided a breakdown of how 
payments would be allocated. She couldnt see that Zopa had done anything wrong and felt 
that the agreement was clear in explaining the borrowing fee so she said that she wouldnt 
be asking Zopa to do anything.
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that: he 
phoned Zopa minutes before he accepted the loan so it should have a recording of his call; 
all material figures need to be presented to customers and not tucked away in the small print 
- a £2,300 charge hidden in a section titled "other financial information" is burying a key fact 
in small print; APR's aren't fixed which is why a loan costs less to service if its paid off early; 
the £2,300 is supposedly included in the APR but hasnt reduced since hes been paying for 
the loan; and hes been paying part capital and part interest but there now seems to be a 
portion of the APR that wasn't being serviced which sounds like a separate fixed fee to him 
which wasn't declared as it should have been.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Zopa says that the loan was for £16,000 and the loan agreement refers to the 
amount of credit of £18,300 (which was the loan and the borrower fee of £2,300);
The borrower fee was clearly set out in the loan agreement and I don t consider that 
it was hidden or tucked away in the small print  it was Mr Ls responsibility to 
read the loan agreement before accepting the loan and, if he didnt understand any of 
the terms or they werent acceptable to him, I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect him to have contacted Zopa and not to have signed the agreement;
I consider that the material terms of the loan were set out in the agreement and the 
terms and conditions and that Mr L knew, or ought reasonably to have known, about 
the borrower fee;
he says that he was told by Zopa that there was no early settlement fee  it hasnt 
been able to find that call but I consider that it would have been correct for it to say 
that there was no early settlement fee as there is no separate charge for settling the 
loan early  the amount required to settle the loan early is calculated on the 
outstanding amount of credit and the interest that is then payable  and the borrower 
fee is part of the amount of credit and is not a penalty or fee for early settlement;
the allocation of payments is described in the loan agreement and Ive seen no 
evidence to show that Zopa has allocated Mr Ls payments incorrectly  the 
proportion of each payment allocated to interest and capital would change over time 
with a larger proportion being allocated to interest at the beginning of the term;
the APR of 22.9% was set out in the loan agreement and the interest charge of 
£7,577.46 was calculated using that interest rate on the amount of the loan and the 
borrower fee  and the APR wouldnt reduce over the term of the agreement but the 
total amount of interest payable would be reduced if the loan was settled early;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Zopa has acted 
incorrectly in connection with the loan or the early settlement of it; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Zopa to reduce the early 
settlement figure, to pay any compensation to Mr L or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman