DRN-4119159
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the handling of his motor insurance claim by AXA Insurance UK 
Plc.  
What happened
In 2022 Mr C was involved in an incident with a third-party. He says while driving in the right 
lane of a three-lane carriageway, an emergency vehicle with its sirens and lights on was 
behind him. So, he straddled the right and middle lane to give way, and when he proceeded 
to resume his position in the right lane, a third-party vehicle  tailgating the emergency 
vehicle  collided with the rear of his vehicle. 
AXA contacted the third-party insurer to hold their driver to blame for the incident. The third-
party insurer denied liability and said the third-party was proceeding in the right lane when 
Mr C changed lanes causing the incident. AXA considered this and later accepted fault on 
Mr Cs behalf. 
Mr C complained. He says AXA previously told him liability would be recorded as non-fault 
given the area of impact. And he might not have pursued a claim had he known he would be 
held at fault. The liability decision has resulted in his premiums increasing, and losing his no 
claims discount, amongst other things. 
AXA paid Mr C £150 compensation in September 2022 for communication issues while 
liability was being determined. They wrote to him again in November 2022 to say Mr C had 
an obligation to ensure it was safe to resume his position. And although other vehicles had 
carried out the same manoeuvre, this couldnt be used as a reason to dispute liability in 
court, so they had no option but to accept fault. They accept Mr C faced more service issues 
and paid him a further £150 compensation. A further letter was sent to Mr C in 2023 to say 
the claim had been reviewed again but the decision stood. Mr C remained unhappy and 
asked our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator thought AXA considered the claim and prospects of success of disputing 
liability in court fairly. She agreed AXA caused several service issues, but felt the 
compensation paid to Mr C was fair and reasonable. Mr C disagreed. He said, broadly, that 
he didnt change lanes as its been incorrectly stated, and the third-party was to blame for 
the incident. As he didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says AXA can take over, defend, or settle a claim. This means AXA are entitled to 
accept liability on Mr Cs behalf and settle any claim as they see fit. This is a common term 
in motor insurance. I dont think this term is inherently unfair provided an insurer can 
demonstrate theyve applied it fairly and reasonably. 
It's not our Services role to decide liability, or the prospects of success of disputing liability 
through the court system  thats for an insurer to decide. Theyll also consider the potential 
costs involved in doing so. So, an insurer isnt compelled  even if a policyholder strongly 
feels another party is to blame for an incident  to take a liability dispute to the courts if they 
consider there to be little or no prospect of success. As mentioned above, our role is to 
decide whether an insurer has fairly considered what happened and applied the policy terms 
fairly and reasonably. 
In this case, AXA considered Mr Cs account of what happened, the areas of impact, and the 
information presented by the third-party insurer. Mr C says AXA had no basis to accept 
liability and the facts he presented were incorrectly represented by them. Namely, he says 
he didnt change lanes, he partially pulled across the right lane to give way, and straddled 
the white lines. I dont think its fair to conclude that AXA failed to understand or 
misrepresented Mr Cs version of events. I say this because I can see they responded to Mr 
C to say the liability decision would stand even though Mr C was straddling the white lines. 
They also considered the areas of damage and explained why the liability decision wouldnt 
change having had the claim reviewed again by their liability team. 
It seems AXA held the third-party to blame for the incident initially (and told Mr C this). But 
following the third-party insurer denying liability (and further allegations sent to them by AXA) 
they reviewed the information, appointed their liability team to do the same, and didnt 
consider there were reasonable prospects of success of disputing liability through the courts. 
AXA say the potential costs in doing so were greater than the value of the claim. I think thats 
a reasonable consideration for them to make. Mr C says the liability decision has resulted in 
his premiums increasing, and he lost his no claims discount. But I wont be requiring AXA to 
take any action and I say this because Im satisfied AXA took reasonable steps to fairly 
consider the information presented and applied the policy terms fairly. As mentioned above, 
the policy entitles them to settle claims as they see fit. 
Mr C faced service issues and AXA should have handled matters much better, and with a 
higher level of customer service. Ive seen no supporting evidence to show Mr Cs 
expectations were correctly managed. With any claim of this nature, its expected that there 
will be a period during the claim where liability is being determined. So, while AXA might 
have thought liability was most likely going to be placed on the third-party initially, Ive not 
seen evidence that shows they managed Mr Cs expectations by explaining this could 
change. There were also communication issues and Mr C says the claim has taken up much 
of his time. 
I note Mr C says if AXA hadnt misinformed him, he probably wouldnt have progressed with 
the claim. I understand why he says this. But I also need to keep in mind there would have 
been a period where liability would have needed to be determined, and understand his 
vehicle suffered damage that required repairing. It was said the repairs required included a 
new panel, bumper and possibly exhaust. While I cant conclude what Mr C definitely would 
have done  as no one can safely say that  repairs were completed under the policy, and I 
do think AXA ought to have taken better steps to manage his expectations here. It follows 
some compensation is due. 
AXA paid Mr C £300 compensation in total in respect of this claim. All things considered  I 
find this amount to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate in the circumstances. I think this 
fairly reflects the lack of communication, a failure to manage his expectations, and the 
impact the poor service had on Mr C. So, I wont be requiring AXA to take any further action 
here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with AXA  can do for him. My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman