DRN-3278865
The complaint
Miss H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to identify a problem with her 
boiler following a call out on her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Miss H had a home emergency policy with British Gas. In November 2020 she made a claim 
after having problems with her heating. 
British Gas sent an engineer to inspect the problem and they said Miss H would need a new 
boiler to fix it. However when they came to replace the boiler the following month, the 
heating system still didnt work. The engineer subsequently found another fault that hadnt 
been identified before. Once this was fixed, Miss Hs heating was fully restored.
After the visit Miss H made a complaint to British Gas. She said she shouldnt have had to 
pay for a new boiler, as the problem with her heating could have been rectified without a full 
replacement. She thought British Gas should reimburse her for the cost of the boiler.
British Gas responded to her complaint and accepted that the fault could have been 
identified in the first visit. However it said the boiler was 15 years old and coming to the end 
of its life, so it wasnt unreasonable that the engineer suggested a replacement. It offered 
£500 compensation in recognition of its error on the first visit.
Miss H wasnt happy with this, she said she had been without heating for a month and had 
had to pay for a new boiler when one wasnt required. So thought British Gas should 
reimburse her for this. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that while she agreed 
British Gas most likely could have identified the fault in the first visit, Miss Hs boiler was at 
the end of its life anyway, so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to reimburse the full costs. But she 
thought £500 was a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Miss H didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at a complaint I first need to identify whether a business has got something 
wrong. And where it has, decide what it should do to put things right for its customer in order 
to put them back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt. 
From looking at everything, there doesnt seem to be much dispute that British Gas did get 
something wrong here  it has accepted it should have identified the fault on the first visit. 
And I agree that its most likely that if British Gas had identified the fault at that point, then a 
replacement boiler wouldnt have been required when it was.
So as Im satisfied British Gas got something wrong, I need to consider whether its done 
enough to put things right for Miss H, to put her back in the position she would have been in 
if it hadnt.
Ive considered Miss Hs request that British Gas cover the cost of the replacement boiler, 
but I dont think this would be fair. 
When the fault occurred, Miss H had a boiler that was over 15 years old. From the 
information provided by British Gas I can see that a replacement was suggested at a visit in 
May 2020 and that it had reduced cover for the boiler, due to availability of parts due to its 
age. So Im satisfied that the boiler was coming to the end of its life. This means its likely 
Miss H would have had to replace it soon any way. And by asking British Gas to pay for a full 
replacement, this would be putting Miss H in a better position than she was in originally  as 
rather than a 15 year old boiler, shed have a brand new one at no additional cost. So I dont 
agree its fair to ask British Gas to pay for the replacement boiler.
However I agree that Miss H has been caused some inconvenience due to the error. For 
example if it had identified the fault on the first visit, then Miss H wouldnt have been without 
heating for a month during the colder months. British Gas has already offered her £500 in 
recognition of this distress and inconvenience and this amount is in line with what I would 
have recommended if it hadnt. So I think this is fair in the circumstances and is enough to 
put things right here. So I wont ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman