DRN-1790479
The complaint
Mr K and Miss C complain about end of contract charges when Miss Cs agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (AFS) 
ended. 
What happened
In May 2015 Miss C was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with AFS.
At the end of the agreement, the car was inspected. Damage was found and Miss C was 
asked to pay charges totalling £1,538. Miss C disputed the charges on the basis that the 
dealership had told her that the car was in excellent condition. She said if shed been told 
there were scratches, she wouldve utilised a scratches policy shed purchased with the car. 
AFS reviewed the charges and reduced them to £580. The dealership added a contribution. 
Mr K says he made payment of the charges on the understanding that there would be no 
further charges to pay.
AFS subsequently asked Miss C to pay excess mileage charges of approximately £700. She 
complained to AFS. AFS acknowledged that it had provided misleading information and 
offered to reduce the charges for excess mileage by 10%.
Miss C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She feels the 
charges are unfair and is unhappy that shes received letters from a debt recovery company 
and is worried about the impact this might have on her credit file. She also feels that she was 
mis-sold her new car because she was told by staff at the dealership that her old car could 
be returned at zero cost.
Our investigator reviewed the damage charges and said these had been fairly applied. He 
said he agreed with AFSs stance that the responsibility fell on Miss C to utilise the body 
care policy prior to returning the car. The investigator also said the 10% reduction of the 
excess mileage charges was fair compensation for the misleading information. In relation to 
the mis-sale aspect of the complaint, the investigator explained that this service couldnt look 
at this because the new agreement.
Miss C didnt agree. She said AFS hadnt acted fairly by charging for damage and this was 
demonstrated by its ability to reduce the charges by almost £1000. She also said the 
dealership had told her the car was in excellent condition, so she didnt understand how AFS 
had found damage. Miss C said she would never have purchased a new car if shed known 
that (having settled the damage charges) she would be asked to pay excess mileage 
charges. She said shed been caused distress and upset by the letters from the debt 
recovery company and wanted compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Miss C must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear. 
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies scratches to several areas of the car, 
including the bodywork and the wheels. The BVLRA guidance says that scratches and 
abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable provided that the primer or bare metal isnt showing. 
AFS has already waived or reduced some of the damage charges so Ive looked at the 
remaining charges to secede whether they are fair.
Based on what Ive seen in the inspection report, and considering the relevant guidelines, I 
think the charges have been fairly applied.
I appreciate that Miss C is unhappy about the charges for damage because the dealership 
told her that the car was in excellent condition. Im unable to investigate what the dealership 
may or may not have said because this aspect of the complaint doesnt relate to a regulated 
product i.e. the finance agreement. However, I would make the observation that the 
dealership isnt an expert in carrying out inspections and is unlikely to have applied the 
BVLRA guidelines in the same way that a qualified inspector does.
I can see that Miss C purchased a body care product which may have provided cover for any 
damage to the car. I agree with AFS when it says it was up to Miss C to make a claim for 
any necessary repairs to be carried out under the policy before the car was returned. Its up 
to Miss C to make sure the car is in good condition when it is returned, in accordance with 
the vehicle returns standards and taking into account the BVLA guidelines.
Its unfortunate that Miss C was provided with incorrect information that there was nothing 
further to pay once the damage charges had been settled. There doesnt appear to  be a 
dispute about the excess mileage itself insofar as Miss C has clearly exceeded the mileage 
limit. Im therefore satisfied that the excess mileage charges have been fairly applied in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement. AFS has acknowledged that it 
gave misleading advice about further charges so Ive considered whether Miss C should be 
compensated for this error. On balance, I think the 10% reduction of the excess mileage 
charges offered by AFS is fair and reasonable and is in line with the level of compensation 
which this service would award had the reduction not been offered.
I understand Miss Cs concerns about the debt recovery letters and the possible impact on 
her credit file. I appreciate that it can be distressing to receive debt recovery letters. 
However, I cant see that Miss C asked AFS to place a hold on debt recovery action whilst 
her complaint was investigated by this service. This service isnt able to require a business 
to pause recovery action. Only AFS can make this decision. On balance, and whilst I 
appreciate that Miss C was upset by the letters, Im unable to say that AFS has acted 
unfairly so I wont be asking it to pay compensation.  
Finally, and in relation to the mis-sake aspect of Miss Cs complaint, I agree with the 
investigators analysis. Im able to look at Miss Cs complaint about matters arising out of the 
first agreement because this agreement was in her name. However, the mis-sale aspect of 
the complaint relates to the second agreement, which is in Mr Ks name. I cant look at this 
because Miss C is the complainant for the purposes of the complaint to this service but the 
second agreement isnt in her name. This service will be able to look at the mis-sale 
complaint once Mr K has received a final response from AFS (subject to relevant time limits).My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman