DRN-3290216
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited handled her mobile 
phone insurance claim. 
What happened
In July 2021 Ms Bs phone screen was broken so she paid an excess to Assurant to make a 
claim and was given instructions to drop the phone off with a delivery company. Ms B says 
the phone was delivered and signed for in July 2021, but Assurant denies receiving it 
because the delivery company has told it the phone wasnt picked up. So, the claim was 
closed and Ms Bs excess was refunded. 
Ms B remained unhappy with Assurant so she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt 
think Assurant had done anything wrong and he didnt think it received the phone so he 
couldnt fairly ask Assurant to accept the claim and replace Ms Bs phone. 
Ms B disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She has said that shes 
currently paying for two mobile phone contracts, she used the label Assurant had provided to 
her and had a delivery company from the shop she dropped her phone off to. So, she 
shouldnt be held responsible for the phone not being delivered to Assurant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms B feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Assurant has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive asked Assurant for evidence that Ms Bs phone wasnt received and screenshots from 
the delivery company to show the tracking reference Ms B received wasnt delivered to 
Assurant. After considering those, Im satisfied that Assurant never received the phone. So, 
it couldnt fairly assess the claim and the damage to the screen. 
Im also persuaded that if the phone had been received then Assurant wouldve proceeded 
with the claim. When the claim was raised over the phone it assessed and accepted it, which 
is why it provided the label for Ms B to send in her phone. 
Ms B has said that she printed the label Assurant provided. But the information from the 
delivery company and Assurant shows that the parcel she sent, under the reference from the 
delivery company receipt she was given, was delivered to a separate company from 
Assurant. And there were no parcels with the correct reference/label added to the delivery 
companys system. Assurant have explained that a parcel is scanned at various steps along 
the delivery journey and there are no further scans of Ms Bs parcel with the correct label. 
So, I think if the correct label had been added, this wouldve appeared on both the delivery 
companys and Assurants system. And I cant fairly conclude that Assurant would provide a 
label that led to Ms Bs phone being sent to another separate company to which it has no 
ties when the label had been given a consignment number which hasnt been scanned onto 
the delivery companies system. 
So, Im not satisfied Assurant has made an error during this claim or that its treated Ms B 
unfairly. I appreciate this leaves Ms B in a difficult position with her two mobile phone 
contracts, but for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not satisfied thats because of a 
mistake Assurant has made.
Assurant has said Ms B can contact it to make a claim for a lost phone which she is entitled 
to do if she wishes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman