DRN-2784324
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for storm damage to their roof.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 March 2021  a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Rs complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs and Mr R jointly held a buildings insurance policy with Ageas. Their policy commenced
on 30 June 2019 and included cover for accidental damage.
On 26 October 2019 Mrs and Mr R said their roof had started to leak following a storm. They
reported what had happened to Ageas on 2 November 2019.
Ageas reviewed weather records from around the time Mrs and Mr R said their roof had
started leaking. But it said the weather reported didnt meet its policy definition of a storm. It
also relied on comments Mrs and Mr R had previously made where they had said no one
would tend to their roof unless there was a leak. And it said it had found an image of Mrs and
Mr Rs house online, dated July 2014, which suggested the roof hadnt been maintained over
the years. So, Ageas repudiated Mrs and Mr Rs claim on the basis that the damage had
been caused by age related wear and tear, which it said was excluded under their policy.
Mrs and Mr R complained to Ageas about its decision to decline their claim. They said there
had been a storm on the relevant date, which had caused the damage their property had
sustained. They also felt Ageas hadnt properly assessed their claim as it hadnt sent a
surveyor to their property to inspect the roof. And they said theyd had the lead flashing
replaced years after the 2014 image had been taken. So, the weight Ageas had attached to
that image had been wrong.
When Ageas responded to Mrs and Mr Rs complaint it said its policy definition of a storm
required wind speeds exceeding 55 mph, which hadnt been present at around the time the
damage occurred. And it maintained that the 2014 image showed some of the roof tiles had
lifted in areas and there were some broken tiles in the gully. It therefore didnt think it had
made an error in declining Mrs and Mr Rs claim and didnt uphold their complaint.
Mrs and Mr R werent happy with the way in which Ageas had dealt with their complaint.
They said theyd had to pay for the cost of repairs to their roof as a result of Ageas
repudiating their claim, which they thought was unfair.
When Mrs and Mr R referred what had happened to our service our investigator
recommended upholding their complaint. She thought Ageas had unfairly repudiated this
claim as she was satisfied Mrs and Mr Rs property had sustained storm damage. She
therefore directed Ageas to reconsider Mrs and Mr Rs claim. But Ageas said there were no
storm conditions at the time the damage occurred. And it said the damage had been caused
by either a failure of Mrs and Mr R to maintain their roof or age related wear and tear. Ive
therefore been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from what
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
I can see Mrs and Mr R and Ageas have gone to some trouble to provide our service with
some very detailed submissions. I want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve sent
us. I hope they will understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this
decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint  namely whether
Ageas acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill explain why I think it has.
Here, Mrs and Mr R told Ageas a storm on 26 October 2019 had caused water ingress
through their roof. Their policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that
might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. However,
in order for a claim to be successful, Mrs and Mr R would have to show that the damage
theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
When our service considers a claim for damage caused by a storm we consider three main
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mrs and Mr Rs complaint, and all the evidence, with these three questions
in mind. All three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to be able to
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
When it considered this claim, Ageas consulted weather records from a weather station
within the locality of Mrs and Mr Rs property to verify the prevailing weather conditions at
around the time the damage occurred. This is what Id expect it to do.
I can see that Ageas told Mrs and Mr R that for it to be satisfied there had been a storm their
policy required wind speeds to exceed 55 mph. However, that isnt correct. I say this
because, having read Mrs and Mr Rs policy carefully, I cant see that the term storm is
defined. This isnt unusual. And, in those scenarios, this service takes the view that a storm
generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. We would
generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a storm.
Based on the weather recorded at around the time the damage occurred, and in the days
prior to that, the wind speeds didnt exceed 43mph on 26 October 2019. The previous day,
the wind speeds reached 46 mph. And, prior to that date, the wind speeds were, overall,
much lower.
Ive also considered the rainfall recorded at around the time Mrs and Mr R said their property
was damaged. The highest rainfall was 16.2 mm, but this was on 24 October 2019.
Thereafter, the highest rainfall recorded was 3.6 mm. So, Im not persuaded that the rainfall
at around the time the damage occurred is consistent with what we would consider a storm.
Overall, there isnt enough evidence to satisfy me there was weather at the time the damageoccurred which meets what our service would consider to be a storm. And, as Im not
persuaded a storm occurred around the time of the damage, I dont need to go on to address
questions two or three as outlined above. So, I cant uphold Mrs and Mr Rs storm claim.
Ive carefully considered whether Ageas should settle Mrs and Mr Rs claim under another
policy peril.
As Ive mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs and Mr Rs policy excludes
damage thats caused by age related wear and tear. This is in common with most home
insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen  and something
wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen.
Ageas believes that, instead of the damage being storm related, it was caused by age
related wear and tear. If an insurer wishes to decline a claim based on wear and tear it must
show that this is how the damage happened. Typically, an insurer would instruct a surveyor
to attend a policyholders house in order to undertake an inspection. But, in this case, Ageas
checked online images of Mrs and Mr Rs house, which it said is another way in which it
would look to validate their claim. And it found an image of Mrs and Mr Rs property from
July 2014 and felt this demonstrated the roof had not been maintained.
I can see that our investigator looked at images of Mrs and Mr Rs roof dating from 2012 to
2018. The latest image shows Mrs and Mr Rs roof is in reasonable condition and I bear in
mind that they said theyd had the lead flashing replaced in the last few years. So, I dont
think its fair to say there was age-related wear and tear in October 2019.
Its possible the water ingress Mrs and Mr R reported happened as a result of an underlying
maintenance related issue that isnt immediately visible from the images our service has
seen. But its difficult to determine the precise cause of the water ingress based on the
available evidence. I think that, in not sending a surveyor to inspect Mrs and Mr Rs roof,
Ageas lost an opportunity to properly inspect the damage that was reported in late 2019.
Ive looked to see whether Mrs and Mr R provided any information that might assist in
determining the cause of the ingress. Theyve provided evidence from their builder, showing
they incurred costs of £750 in replacing the left hand valley of their roof and £600 for the hire
of scaffolding. Theyve also provided a quote from the builder confirming the nature of the
work that had been quoted for. But they havent provided any evidence confirming what the
cause or origin of the damage was. So, its unclear what caused the water ingress Mrs and
Mr R reported or whether the work that was undertaken was required as a result of an
insured event taking place.
As I mentioned previously, in order for a claim to be successful, a policy holder has to show
that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy. Im
sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr R but, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think theyve
proven the damage they reported to Ageas occurred as a result of an insured peril.
I can see Mrs and Mr Rs policy includes cover for accidental damage to buildings. So, Ive
thought about whether the damage they reported could be covered under this part of their
policy. However, as damage caused by climatic conditions is specifically excluded, Im
satisfied I cant ask Ageas to cover the costs Mrs and Mr R incurred in repairing their roof.
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied Ageas decision to decline the claim for repairs to
Mrs and Mr Rs roof was reached reasonably and in line with their policy. So, my provisional
view is that I dont think Ageas needs to do anything further.In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Mrs and Mr R responded to say that they were disappointed by my provisional decision. But 
they didnt put forward any further arguments or provide any further evidence for me to 
consider. Ageas acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed its 
agreement with the content.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to those set 
out in my provisional decision. 
I therefore remain persuaded that Ageas decision to decline Mrs and Mr Rs claim for 
repairs to their roof was reached reasonably and in line with their policy. Im still satisfied that 
Mrs and Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman