DRN-4173159
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Klarna Bank AB (publ) handled his application for finance. Hes 
also unhappy with the level of service that he received.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr F applied to Klarna to finance a purchase that he wanted to make. 
Specifically, he wanted to attend a festival and was attempting to purchase the tickets at a 
discounted rate with the cost spread over 12 months.
  
Klarna declined Mr Fs application. Mr F didnt think this was fair, so he spent some time 
trying to resolve the issue over the phone, and through Klarnas webchat service, before 
ultimately making a complaint. 
In summary, he didnt think that Klarna had fairly assessed his application. He also said that 
it had refused to carry out a manual review of its decision. Moreover, Mr F said hed been 
told by a Klarna agent  in one of the webchat transcripts  that the purchase would go 
ahead. Mr F also highlighted several examples which, he felt, showed poor service and 
misinformation was provided  as well as several occasions that Mr F deemed to be 
breaches of various pieces of legislation. 
Klarna issued its final response letter on 11 July. In it, Klarna maintained that Mr Fs 
application had been correctly declined. Essentially, it explained that it takes a number of 
factors into account when making a lending decision and its services arent guaranteed to be 
available. Klarna did, though, recognise that the customer service Mr F had received had 
fallen short. So, it paid him £50 to compensate him for the poor service. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. An investigator here looked at what had happened, and they didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. The complaint was then passed to another investigator, after 
Mr F disagreed with the initial findings, who reinvestigated. She too didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary, she said:
Klarna can determine for itself whether to accept an application. Here, it had made a 
commercial decision to decline Mr Fs application and that wasnt unreasonable. 
Our service cannot interfere with Klarnas processes and procedures. 
Klarna hadnt refused to carry out a manual review of Mr Fs application. Instead, 
although Mr F had first needed to insist, its agents had ultimately explained on 
several occasions that it would carry out a review  the application just had to be 
referred to the necessary internal team. 
Some of the wording and phrases used by Klarna agents werent entirely helpful. But 
generally, it was clear that Mr Fs application would be reviewed internally. Webchat 
agents had also explained, several times, that they couldnt overturn a lending 
decision. And nothing suggested that a binding agreement was ever in place. 
Klarnas payment of £50 compensation to reflect the customer service issues was 
reasonable. 
Mr F still disagreed. He reiterated his view that Klarnas agents had provided a written 
statement which suggested steps would be taken to ensure his purchase was successful.
Additionally, he said that hed been wrongly advised to make repeated applications which 
wouldve impacted his credit score. Mr F also maintained that a manual review of his 
application had been refused, and that hed been made repeated promises about receiving a 
call back which hadnt materialised. Finally, he maintained that he had entered into a binding 
agreement which Klarna had broken. 
Our investigator explained again that she didnt think Mr F had entered into a binding 
agreement. Nor did she agree that it had refused to carry out a manual review of the 
application. This had, in fact, been done after Mr F had insisted on it  its just that the 
outcome remained the same.
 
So, based on the overall circumstances, she was still of the opinion that Klarna hadnt 
unfairly declined Mr Fs application and that £50 compensation was fair for the level of 
service hed received. 
Mr F asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill say first that I hope Mr F wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented on each 
and every point hes made. Instead, Ive kept things deliberately concise. Thats because our 
role is to be an informal service, and my approach here is simply to align with that purpose. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This just reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In my view, the crux of this matter is  at its heart  Klarnas decision to decline Mr Fs 
application. Mr F was, quite understandably, disappointed at missing out on the festival 
tickets that he wanted to purchase. I can understand too his desire to know more about why 
his application was declined. 
Its important for me to explain then, although Im sure Mr F is already aware of this, that 
lending decisions are commercial decisions made by the lenders underwriters. Theyre 
based on a review of an applicants circumstances and generally include things like income, 
outgoings, existing levels of debt and the lenders own internal lending criteria.
Here, Klarna has said that Mr Fs application was initially assessed by its lending algorithm and information from credit reference agencies. Its said that the application was declined 
legitimately and that its decision was then affirmed through a manual review, taking into 
account all of the information it had gathered. 
So, by my reading, that indicates that Mr Fs application was declined because it didnt meet 
Klarnas lending criteria. Thats a valid reason to decline an application. Klarna doesnt have 
an obligation to provide a full and exhaustive explanation as to why an application wasnt 
approved, and I wouldnt expect it to share details of its internal lending criteria given thats 
commercially sensitive information. 
I know that Mr F believes he could afford the repayments, and that he cant see anything 
from his credit report which means he shouldnt have been accepted. But thats his own 
assessment of circumstances. And while I can understand how it must be frustrating that his 
application was declined, particularly when he can see no reason why it would have been, 
Klarna is entitled to make that decision if it so chooses. 
Ultimately, as our investigator has already explained, its for Klarna to decide if it will or wont 
accept an application. It isnt within the remit of this service to tell Klarna, or any other 
financial business, that it should approve an application. With all of that in mind, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Klarna acted unreasonably in this regard. 
I will say, though, that I agree the level of service Mr F received couldve been better. Its fair 
to say that some interactions with Klarnas agents could have been clearer, and that Mr F 
had to spend time chasing things up. 
While I must be clear that I dont find anything Klarnas agents said to have made a material 
difference to what happened overall  for example, I dont agree that a binding agreement 
was ever in place, and nor do I agree with Mr Fs assertion that Klarna ever implied the 
decision would definitely be overturned  I do think he was inconvenienced by some poor 
service. To that end, in the circumstances, I think Klarnas payment of £50 compensation for 
the service issues is both fair and reasonable. 
Ive noted Mr Fs concerns about the impact that repeated applications may have had on his 
credit score. Ive not seen evidence that shows Mr Fs credit score fell and, if it did, that it 
happened solely due to Klarnas actions. Either way, I must keep in mind that Klarna has 
confirmed it only carried out soft searches. Those arent visible to lenders and shouldnt 
impact a credit score. So, based on the information I have, I think it more likely that Klarnas 
actions had little to no impact on Mr Fs credit score or his future ability to obtain credit. 
Finally, Im aware of Mr Fs concerns around Klarnas practices and General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR). But I cant say whether theres been a breach of GDPR. Thats a matter 
for a court or the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. 
To sum up then, while I appreciate how frustrating this matter must have been for Mr F, Im 
satisfied that Klarna didnt unfairly decline his application. And while I agree there were some 
service issues, I think Klarna has already done enough to recognise those failings. So, with 
all of that in mind, I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 Simon Louth
Ombudsman