DRN-4026683
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim she and Mr P made under their home insurance policy they made following a burglary. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs P made a claim to Admiral following a burglary at their home. 
Admiral accepted the claim. 
In June 2022 Admiral raised concerns about additional items Mrs P claimed for to the 
jewellery agent. Mrs P provided an explanation in response. Admiral wasnt satisfied with the 
response and due to its concerns, it made the decision to avoid the policy, applying its fraud 
exclusion. 
Admiral said it didnt dispute that a burglary had occurred. But it said Mrs Ps account of 
when and how she reported the additional stolen items to the police was inconsistent. So it 
believed Mrs P had exaggerated her claim for financial gain. 
Mrs P complained to Admiral, but it said its decision was correct. So Mrs P asked us to look 
at her complaint. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She thought it reasonable 
that Mrs P wouldnt have listed all of the stolen items at the outset. While she understood 
Admirals concerns, she could see Mrs P had raised a complaint with the police about it not 
recording the additional items she said shed reported to them. 
The Investigator didnt find there was enough evidence for Admiral to decide Mrs Ps actions 
were fraudulent and so she didnt find its decision to avoid the policy and decline the claim 
was reasonable. 
The Investigator recommended Admiral pay the claim in full in line with the remaining policy 
terms and add 8% simple interest from the date of the repudiation letter to the date that the 
payment is made. She also recommended Admiral remove the cancellation from all relevant 
records and return any cancellation fees if applicable.
Mrs P accepted the Investigators view. Admiral didnt agree. It says Mrs P uploaded a claim 
to the jeweller portal site including additional items. When Admiral asked if Mrs P had 
reported the additional items to the police, she said she had by email. But when asked to 
provide evidence of the email, Mrs P said she uploaded the information to the police portal. 
When Admiral tried to upload attachments to the police portal, it wasnt possible to perform 
this function - and on checking with the police, they confirmed attaching documents isnt 
possible under the police portal. 
It provided a copy of an email Mrs P sent to a police officer about her claim, but this didnt 
have any attachments to it to support Mrs Ps account that she had reported the additional 
items to the police.
Due to the inconsistency in the information provided by Mrs P, Admiral says its decision was 
reasonable. 
Admiral wants an ombudsman to decide. 
In March 2023 Mrs P said Admiral didnt avoid the policy and they have been able to renew 
their home insurance policy with Admiral in November 2022. 
We asked Admiral about this. It says it is waiting our decision before applying a fraud marker 
and avoiding the policy - as Mrs P told it she would lose her job if it took this action. 
So as things stand, Admiral has continued to provide cover for Mr and Mrs P since the 
renewal of this policy in November 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral can avoid a policy and refuse a claim if it believes a condition of the policy has been 
breached. In this case, Admiral say, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr and Mrs P did 
breach the fraud condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy 
in relation to this, and they say:
Fraud and misrepresentation
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate 
information. If you, any other insured
person, or anyone acting on your behalf, provides:
 false, incomplete, exaggerated or misleading information, or
 false, altered, forged or stolen documents,
we will do one or more of the following things.
 Change your policy to show the correct information, and change the premium 
accordingly
. Cancel your policy immediately
 Declare your policy void
 Refuse to pay any claim or only pay part of a claim
 Keep the premium you have paid
 Recover any costs from you or any other insured person
 Cancel or void any other EUl policies you are connected with
Admiral says it believes Mrs P exaggerated her claim. It says she submitted a claim to the 
jewellery agent which included several additional items which she hasnt been able to 
evidence she reported to the police. 
So, Admiral says it intends to avoid Mr and Mrs Ps policy and not meet her claim in line with 
the policy terms. 
Ive looked at the information Admiral has relied on and whether its decision is fair. 
Mrs P submitted a claim for an additional ten items of jewellery to the jewellery agent - 
outside of the items Admiral said Mrs P had reported to the police as stolen. 
It asked Mrs P to provide her account as to why this was. In response, Mrs P said she had 
reported the additional items to the police and provided photos of the additional items. 
However, when asked to provide evidence of doing so, Mrs P was able to provide an email 
to a police officer, but this didnt attach evidence of reporting additional items. Mrs P then told Admiral she had uploaded the documents separately to the police portal 
when reporting the additional stolen items. But Admiral found the police portal didnt have 
the facility to do this - and it checked this with the police who confirmed this wasnt an option. 
As Admiral wasnt satisfied with the information provided by Mrs P, Admiral said it would 
avoid the policy and backdate this to 20 January 2021 as it considered this to be the date of 
the fraudulent act. 
On 7 July 2022, in response to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, Admiral didnt specify the terms of 
the policy it had applied when reaching its decision. And Mrs P told us their policy had 
continued - and not been avoided. So we asked Admiral to clarify. 
Admiral said that it hadnt in fact avoided the policy because it was awaiting our decision. It 
said Mrs P told it she would lose her job if it avoided the policy and applied a fraud marker. 
However, as explained to Admiral, Mrs P raised this concern with Admiral before it replied to 
her complaint. And Mrs P asked us to look at her complaint two months after Admiral issued 
its final response. So I cannot see how Admirals actions - or inaction in doing what it said it 
would do - was put on hold because of the possibility that Mrs P might bring her complaint to 
us. 
As explained to Admiral, when an insurer decides to avoid a policy and apply a fraud marker, 
it must make this clear to the customer - due to the consequences of this action on the 
customers ability to buy insurance in the future. 
Admiral hasnt been clear. It has allowed the policy to continue - this happened for two 
months after it issued its decision which said it would avoid the policy. I think it is confusing 
to not follow up on its actions for the reason it has given - that it was awaiting our decision - 
when it wasnt known if Mrs P would bring her complaint to us. Had Mrs P not contacted us, 
it seems the policy would have continued without a fraud marker being applied and with the 
decision to reject the claim. This isnt in line with what Admiral told Mr and Mrs P. 
I understand Mrs P raised a complaint with the police and she has provided us with 
correspondence about that. 
There isnt evidence to show that Mrs P reported the additional items to the police in line with 
what Mrs P says happened. 
However, the threshold to decide a fraudulent act occurred is high - and I dont think the 
information is enough to show Mrs P committed a fraudulent act as Admiral quoted in its 
repudiation letter dated 1 July 2022. (This letter is undated when provided to the file - so this 
date may be different - it is the date Mrs P quoted in her response to it).
Admiral accepted the claim and it accepts that the burglary happened. From the jewellery 
agents report they seemed satisfied from photos provided by Mr and Mrs P that the claim for 
additional items was valid - but that they werent included in the original list. 
I understand there are some inconsistencies as to what was or wasnt reported to the police 
in respect of the additional items. But I dont think Admirals handling of the claim by applying 
a fraud exclusion is fair in this case. It isnt unusual for further stolen items to be discovered 
after the initial review. It can take some time to discover additional items after the shock and 
disturbance of a burglary. Mrs P explained that she didnt realise a smart device had been 
stolen until she returned to her office in the home to work as the device was previously 
located behind a curtain. I think this explanation is reasonable. I dont think there is enough 
evidence to show that because some items arent evidenced as being reported to the police 
after the initial claim, that Mrs P has acted fraudulently. 
So Im upholding this complaint in line with the Investigators recommendations which Ive 
set out below. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
(Gibraltar) Limited to meet Mr and Mrs Ps theft claim in full under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
If paying a cash settlement, Admiral should add interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a 
year from the date of the repudiation letter to the date of settlement. 
Admiral should ensure no marker for fraud or record of a cancellation is recorded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman