DRN-2163372
The complaint
Mr H believes Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank has not adhered to the rules 
set out for CHAPS payments, as per the reference manual. 
What happened
Mr H made two CHAPS payments with Yorkshire Bank. Each was completed successfully 
and without issue. Mr H has no complaint about the execution of the payments and hes 
suffered no loss.
Mr H did, however, raise concerns with Yorkshire Bank about the information provided at the 
time of making the payments and questioned whether it was adhering to the relevant rules.
Yorkshire Bank responded and said it had taken Mr Hs feedback on board. It confirmed it 
was satisfied it was meeting its obligations.
Mr H wasnt happy with the banks answer and so brought the complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked at it and didnt uphold the complaint. She explained our role to 
Mr H, setting out how we consider individual complaints and consider whether a bank has 
caused a customer a loss. 
Mr H accepted what our role was but said he still wanted a finding made about whether 
Yorkshire Bank had broken the rules. The complaint has been passed to me as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr H previously requested more time to provide information. And I believe hes 
also requested information relevant to his complaint from us. Deadlines to respond have 
been extended for Mr H a number of times. And the information he requested was provided 
to him almost a full calendar month ago. And so Ive made the decision to progress with my 
final decision based on the information and evidence we already have, rather than wait any 
longer.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Given what Mr H has told us there isnt really a complaint for Yorkshire Bank to answer, in 
respect of the work of this service.
Mr H has confirmed hes suffered no loss or inconvenience as a result of anything 
Yorkshire Bank may or may not have done. His concerns appear to be broader, affecting 
customers other than himself and adherence to regulations. But its the FCA which regulates 
businesses like Yorkshire Bank. 
Whilst we take regulations into account when considering a complaint, its not for us to 
enforce them or to ensure a business complies with them. Where a customer has suffered a 
loss, and that loss stems from a breach of industry rules and regulations, well instruct a 
business to put things right and pay compensation. But as there is no loss theres no 
direction for me to make against Yorkshire Bank.
I acknowledge that Mr H is likely to be disappointed that Ive not commented specifically on 
Yorkshire Banks CHAPS forms. Ive not done so because of the reasons set above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman