DRN-4330642
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) administered 
his credit card after agreeing a payment plan.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M has told us he held an M&S credit card for several years. From 2018 M&S wrote to 
Mr M about the position of his account and advised it was considered to be in persistent 
debt. During 2020 M&S sent Mr M letters relating to the position of his account and 
explained it had been identified as being in persistent debt. In October 2020 Mr M agreed a 
payment plan to repay the outstanding balance over a four year period. Mr M maintained the 
payments and was able to clear the remaining balance earlier than planned. Mr M made a 
payment to clear the balance in full in January 2022.
In November 2022 Mr M contacted M&S to request a replacement credit card. The agent 
Mr M spoke with said they would order a new card. But when Mr M didnt receive a 
replacement he called M&S again and was told there was an account block in place. M&S 
ultimately said the credit card shouldve been closed when Mr M made the final repayment in 
January 2022 as he hadnt cleared the outstanding balance within six months of agreeing 
the payment plan in October 2020. M&S went on to close the account.
Mr M complained and M&S issued a final response on 13 February 2023. M&S confirmed 
that due to the persistent debt position of Mr Ms account it had agreed a payment plan. And 
M&S said that if the outstanding balance isnt cleared within six months, it will close the 
credit card once the balance is repaid. However, due to a mistake, the relevant account 
block wasnt put in place and the credit card remained active on M&S systems.
M&S apologised and offered Mr M £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought M&S had correctly identified Mr Ms credit card as being in persistent debt and had 
followed the relevant regulations when contacting him to discuss repayment options. The 
investigator thought M&S had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ms case and I think M&S reasonably identified Mr Ms credit card as being 
in a persistent debt position. M&S issued various letters from 2018, ending in Mr M agreeing 
to a repayment plan in October 2020. Mr M agreed monthly payments that wouldve repaid 
the balance in full over a four year period and M&S applied an account block to his credit 
card at that time. Im satisfied M&S reasonably identified Mr Ms account as being in 
persistent debt and agreed a suitable payment plan.
Mr Ms explained that when he agreed the plan in October 2020 he wasnt told that he would 
need to repay the balance within six months for the account to remain open and active. 
M&S letters from that time dont mention the six month requirement to clear the balance. Ive 
listened to the call from October 2020 when Mr M set up the payment plan and I didnt hear 
any mention of the six month threshold either. But the agent Mr M spoke with explained the 
payment plan needed to be affordable and gave Mr M different options including making 
repayment over three or four year terms. Mr M said the four year term was the affordable 
option. So whilst M&S agent may not have told Mr M he would need to pay the balance in 
six months to retain the credit card facility, it doesnt appear he was in a position to make 
repayments at a level that wouldve done that. Overall I havent been persuaded that not 
providing this information at the point of agreeing the payment plan has impacted Mr M.
Mr M made a payment to clear the balance in full in January 2022. By that point, more than 
six months had passed. M&S has confirmed that it should have closed Mr Ms account at 
that time. But because the wrong kind of account block was applied in October 2020, the 
account remained active and reporting on Mr Ms credit file.
In November 2022 Mr M was incorrectly told a new card would be ordered. M&S has 
confirmed this was a mistake by the agent as a result of the wrong block applied to the 
account. But when Mr M contacted M&S again it advised the account should have been 
closed and credit card facility withdrawn. I appreciate Mr M was disappointed to find this out, 
but Im satisfied that M&S had reasonable grounds to close Mr Ms account once the debt 
was repaid.
Whilst Im pleased M&S upheld Mr Ms complaint, Im not persuaded its fully resolved the 
situation. Ive reviewed M&S file submission in full and can find no reference to M&S 
amending Mr Ms credit file. Given the credit card should have been closed in January 2022 
(when the balance was repaid), my view is that M&S should have amended Mr Ms credit file 
to show that as the date the account was settled and closed. Its not accurate to say the 
account remained active until 2023. So based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to 
tell M&S to amend Mr Ms credit file to reflect a closure and settlement date of January 2022.
Im not persuaded that £75 fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused by 
various issues raised by Mr M. As Ive noted above, M&S applied the wrong account block 
which led to the credit card remaining open for longer than it should have. As a result, Mr M 
believed he had an active credit card he could call on when required. In November 2022 
M&S agent failed to identify the account status and agreed to send Mr M a new credit card. 
And it was only when Mr M made contact with M&S again and ultimately complained that his 
account was fully reviewed and the issues he has experienced were explained. Overall, I 
dont agree that £75 reflects Mr Ms experiences and frustrations. So in addition to amending 
the settlement date on Mr Ms credit file, I also intend to tell M&S to increase its award for 
the distress and inconvenience caused from £75 to £150. In my view, that more fairly reflects 
the levels of trouble and upset Mr M experienced.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted to make before I 
made my final decision. Both parties confirmed they were willing to proceed in line with the 
revised settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent me any new information to consider I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
Plc to settle by amending his credit file to reflect a closure and settlement date of January 
2022 and pay him a total of £150 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman