DRN-3212387
The complaint
Miss F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved a loan 
application.
 
What happened
Miss F applied for a loan with Lloyds in May 2015. Miss F said she was employed and 
earned around £800 a month. The reason for the loan was given as car and Lloyds 
approved the application for £5,500. Miss F has told us that during the application process 
she spoke with someone on the phone at Lloyds who pressured her into taking out the loan.
Miss F fell into arrears in 2017 and the loan was later closed. More recently, Miss F 
complained to Lloyds that it had lent irresponsibly. Lloyds issued a final response in 
November 2020 and paid Miss F £75 to reflect the delay in coming back to her. But Lloyds 
didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly when it approved Miss Fs loan. 
Miss F referred her complaint to this service. An investigator initially looked at Miss Fs 
complaint and upheld it. But another investigator took over and reviewed the case again. 
The investigator didnt agree Lloyds had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Miss Fs 
complaint. Miss F asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Lloyds had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Miss F could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, Lloyds says it looked at the information Miss F gave in her application and 
completed a credit search. Lloyds says the credit search didnt find any other unsecured 
credit in Miss Fs name. Lloyds says based on Miss Fs income of £800 the repayment of 
£198 was affordable so the loan was approved. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide evidence of the information it found on Miss Fs credit file, 
so I cant verify what its told us. But Lloyds has provided bank statements for the months 
both before and after Miss Fs loan was approved. 
Miss Fs income was in line with the figure she gave in the application form. Miss F didnt 
appear to have regular direct debits leaving her account prior to the loan being approved in 
May 2015. Miss F has told us she paid around £55 a month towards rent and for her phone 
bill, but I think the remaining disposable income was enough to service the new loan 
payments sustainably. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss F but having reviewed the information available I havent been 
persuaded Lloyds lent unfairly. 
Miss F has told us she was encouraged to apply for the loan after calling Lloyds. But the 
loan was subject to a full application process and affordability assessment. And, for the 
reasons Ive given above, Im unable to agree that Lloyds lent irresponsibly when it approved 
Miss Fs loan. 
As I havent found that Lloyds lent irresponsibly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman