DRN-3333528
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed his account.
What happened
Mr C held an account with HSBC and some months after it was opened, HSBC carried out a 
review of the account and decided to close it immediately. HSBC wrote to Mr C explaining 
this in a letter. 
Mr C complained to HSBC, who looked into the matter again but wouldnt change their 
position. Mr C remained unhappy with HSBC and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was reasonable for HSBC to 
close the account and didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint. Its now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank is entitled to close an account, just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which HSBC had to comply with, say in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately. Specifically, those terms state:
Sometimes we can end the agreement and close your accounts straight away and not give 
you any notice. Well also do this if its reasonable for us to believe that something in the list 
below has happened.
Youre accessing or using an account, service or money illegally or fraudulently (or 
have done this in the past).
Youre allowing someone else to do this.
Youre using the account in a way not covered by our agreement.
Youre involved, in any criminal activity. It doesnt matter whether or not this is linked 
to banking with us.
Youve placed us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code, court 
order or other duty, or requirement.
Youve exposed us, or another HSBC Group company, to action from any  
government, regulator or law enforcement agency.
Theres been a breach of security or misuse of your account, security details or a 
payment device.
This closure resulted from a periodic review of the account. Having read the details of their 
review, I can see why HSBC decided to close it with immediate effect. HSBC didnt inform 
Mr C of the reasons for closing the account, and nor are they required to, although Mr C 
suspects its linked to another account with a different bank he opened.
Im under no obligation that Im aware of to disclose the reasons HSBC considered when 
they closed the account and Im satisfied HSBCs evidence was sufficient to justify closing 
the account without notice. 
I appreciate Mr C suffered inconvenience and personal difficulties dealing with his situation 
when this happened. I think there was a cumulative effect on Mr Cs ability to open bank 
accounts, due to actions by numerous businesses, but my role here is to determine if HSBC 
acted fairly and reasonably when they closed Mr Cs account straight away. Whilst Im sure 
Mr C will disagree; I think HSBCs actions were appropriate and I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman