DRN-2578368
The complaint
Mr B complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans unfairly recorded a 
default notice against him. Hed now like it removed and his credit file amended.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Oakbrook in 2016 but in 2018 his account fell into arrears following 
a change in his employment and in August 2018 he agreed a repayment plan with 
Oakbrook.
When Mr B missed the December payment, Oakbrook issued him with a default notice. This 
notice, dated 17 December, required payment of the outstanding amount by 3 January 2019 
failing which further action would be taken and that included the option of registering the 
default against him at the credit reference agencies.
Oakbrook didnt hear anything from Mr B so on 18 January 2019 it went ahead and 
registered the default against him.
Mr B says he didnt receive the letter of 17 December and the first he knew about the default 
was when he was told about it by his mortgage adviser recently. He says its had a 
significant impact on his credit score and his ability to get a mortgage at a reasonable rate. 
Hes also pointed out that he repaid the loan in full on 23 January 2019. In the circumstances 
he feels it was unreasonable of Oakbrook to register the default against him and hed now 
like it removed and his credit file amended.
Oakbrook didnt agree it had made acted unfairly. It said thered already been a number of 
missed payments before the one in December. It had then written to Mr B in December 
explaining what he needed to do to avoid any action being taken and the consequences of 
not doing so but it said it hadnt heard from Mr B despite trying to contact h. In the 
circumstances it didnt agree it had made a mistake in registering the default and because of 
that, it couldnt agree to remove the details of the default from Mr Bs credit file.
Our investigator initially upheld Mr Bs complaint. Hed seen that Mr B had told Oakbrook 
that he was having financial problems and, in the circumstances, he felt Oakbrook could 
have done more to contact Mr B before taking further action. However, after receiving new 
information from Oakbrook showing that it had made repeated attempts to call Mr B between 
19 December 2018 and 11 January 2019, he changed his view. He felt Oakbrook had taken 
reasonable steps to contact Mr B and for that reason, he couldnt agree it had acted unfairly 
or that it now needed to amend the information it had provided to the credit reference 
agencies.
Mr B said he didnt have any record of receiving any calls from Oakbrook at this time. He 
noted that hed changed his number in August and again around the end of January and 
wondered if that could explain this. Mr B also said he hadnt received the letter of 17 
December either so he hadnt been aware Oakbrook was intending to register the default 
against him. But he pointed out that, in any event, he had repaid the loan in full on 23 
January so he felt it was unfair of Oakbrook to register the default against him and asked for 
it to be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs explained very clearly why he feel the default was unfairly registered and why he 
considers it should now be removed.  But I can only ask Oakbrook to remove the default if I 
find that it was registered incorrectly so Ive looked very carefully at what happened before 
the default was registered.  Having done so, I dont consider Oakbrook has acted unfairly as 
Ill now explain.
Ive looked first at whether Oakbrook was reasonable in seeking to register a default at this 
point. We wouldnt expect a lender to rush into registering a default after every missed 
payment because of the impact on the borrower but its generally held that its not 
unreasonable to do so where theres been at least three missed payments. In this case I can 
see Mr B had missed two payments earlier in 2018 and there was then another missed 
payment in December. On that basis and taking account that it had had no contact from Mr 
B, I dont consider Oakbrook was unreasonable in taking action at this time.
However, Mr B had told Oakbrook earlier in 2018 that he was having financial problems and, 
in those circumstances, Id expect the business to deal with them sympathetically and 
positively. Ive seen that Oakbrook had set up a repayment plan following the missed 
payments earlier in the year. And when Mr B missed another payment in December, it then 
wrote to him to explain what he needed to do to avoid any further action being taken against 
him. I think that was reasonable and in line with what Id have expected.
Ive seen Mr B says he didnt receive the letter but Ive checked and the letter was correctly 
addressed to the address Mr B had provided in October 2018 so there doesnt seem to be 
any clear reason why this didnt arrive. And because it was correctly addressed, I cant 
reasonably say Oakbrook was responsible the fact it didnt arrive.
Further, Oakbrook didnt just rely on this letter. It made twenty one attempts to contact Mr B 
by phone in December and January to discuss his account. And Ive seen that the calls were 
made to the number Mr B had provided only a few months before in his call of 29 August. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B says he wasnt aware of the letter or the calls but Oakbrook 
has provided notes to show the date and time of the calls made and the number they were 
made to and, in the circumstances Im satisfied the calls were made and that they were 
made to the correct number. For that reason, Im satisfied Oakbrook made reasonable 
efforts to contact Mr B at this time and it was only when it wasnt able to do so that it went on 
to register the default. 
Mr Bs explained very clearly the impact this default has had on his ability to obtain a 
mortgage. Im sympathetic to the situation he now finds himself in but Oakbrook, like all 
lenders, is required to provide accurate information to the credit reference agencies and I 
can only ask it to change that where I find theres been a mistake. For the reasons set out 
above, I dont consider Oakbrook acted unfairly or unreasonably in registering the default 
against Mr B and I cant, therefore, ask it to remove this information Mr Bs credit file. 
I realise this isnt the decision Mr B was hoping for but, for the reasons set out above, I wont 
be asking Oakbrook to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman