DRN-2551136
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has blocked his accounts and will not allow him 
access to them.
What happened
Mr S says Barclays blocked his accounts in June 2020 and told him he needed to attend a 
branch with identification. He says that is impossible as he is in India and needs access to 
his money to return to the United Kingdom (UK). Mr S says he has called Barclays on a 
number of occasions but was placed on hold for long periods and hasnt received a new 
debit card. He would like the restrictions removed and compensation for whats taken place.
Barclays says it correctly applied the account blocks where it had security concerns following 
a suspicious call to it in June 2020.It also says it had concerns about contact made to it via 
social media and in those circumstances says it will not send out a new debit card or remove 
the account blocks.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and says he is now in Hong Kong. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint and thought Barclays was entitled to place the account restrictions in 
these circumstances. The investigator also thought it was up to Barclays to decide what its 
policy was on these matters.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and his representative says he was never in India but now 
accepts he was. Mr S would like a new account card and says its up to Barclays to agree an 
alternative way of sorting this out or by sending his money to his account he holds with 
another bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
Banks and Building Societies must have fraud and security measures in place to protect 
their customers money. I realise that on occasions those security measures can cause 
inconvenience and I also accept in this case there is the added difficulty that Mr S is abroad.
I have listened to the call that led to Barclays placing the account blocks on Mr Ss account 
and can see that the social media contact did not appear to originate from Mr Ss account. 
So, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly or made a mistake by concluding that it had 
reasonable security and fraud concerns about Mr Ss account. Im satisfied that in those 
circumstances Barclays had no real alternative but to restrict the account access and ask Mr 
S to attend a branch with identification. I appreciate Mr S says that is impossible and has no 
money to return to the UK. But I dont think Mr S has explained why he left the UK and if he 
had a return ticket and how he afforded his travel to Hong Kong from India. And I dont think 
he has explained if he has access to other money abroad or how much money he has in his 
other UK bank account.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays is trying to prevent fraud and has acted reasonably in 
restricting Mr Ss accounts. I also think its up to Barclays to decide what its security 
measures are when exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly 
interfere in. It follows that I cant fairly order Barclays to remove the restrictions, pay Mr S 
compensation or find an alternative way of resolving this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman