DRN-2442032
The complaint
Mr M says First Central Insurance Management Limited offered him low compensation for 
the poor service it provided after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M reported a non-fault accident to First Central (which administers his policy) in 
November 2019. He paid a £400 policy excess when the repairs were done, which he 
correctly expected to get back. But Mr M had to chase First Central for updates on the 
claims progress and didnt get replies to some of his emails. 
When Mr M called for an update on 25 March 2020, First Central said the other insurer had 
accepted liability and that the outlay on the claim had been recovered. Mr M asked about the 
refund of his excess. First Central queried it with the other insurer on 1 April 2020, but Mr M 
still didnt have it back by the end of June 2020. 
Meanwhile, First Central had realised that pursuing the excess should have been assigned 
to firm C, under Mr Ms legal expenses cover. Firm C was instructed on 30 June 2020, after 
Mr M raised a complaint about First Centrals poor service. It had already accepted that its 
contact with Mr M should have been better and that it should have been more proactive. It 
had offered him £50 compensation. It said firm C would take legal action and that his claims 
handler would keep him updated. Mr M accepted the proposed settlement of his complaint, 
but several months later he still hadnt received the refund. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She said she couldnt consider his 
concerns about firm C, as it falls outside our remit. She noted that after Mr M complained to 
us, First Central increased its offer of compensation by £50. The investigator thought £100 in 
total was sufficient to make up for the delays First Central had caused, its poor contact with 
Mr M and its late referral to firm C. Mr M said ideally, hed like £400 from First Central (to put 
him back in the position he would have been in with the excess repaid) but he thought  that 
compensation of at least £200 was due to him for distress and inconvenience.
As the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, he asked for a review of it by an 
ombudsman. Meanwhile, First Central offered Mr M a further £100 compensation. He didnt 
respond to the offer (put to him by the investigator) except to ask for an update on our 
process, so the complaint came to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr M faced a fair amount of inconvenience in having to chase First Central for 
updates. He was also frustrated by other issues, such as its failure to reply to some of his 
emails, or to update his case file. In my opinion, £100 compensation would have been 
enough to make up for those basic service issues. But I think the claim for the refund of his 
excess would have progressed more quickly had it been referred to firm C sooner. 
I think a further £100 compensation would make up for that error. I dont think First Central 
should have to pay Mr M £400, as he would like. Its appropriate for the excess to be 
recovered from the other insurer, and that isnt what compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is meant to reflect. 
It seems First Central has already paid Mr M £100, so the sum outstanding is a further £100. 
Mr M hasnt agreed that £200 compensation in total is acceptable, and he wanted me to 
consider whether an extra sum for his distress and inconvenience would be fair. I dont think 
it would be. First Central has confirmed that its offer is still open, and as I think it has acted 
fairly and reasonably in accepting that it provided poor service - and in trying to put matters 
right, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman