DRN-1578042
 
The complaint 
Miss S complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have unfairly declined her claim 
for legal expenses insurance. 
IPA use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to the 
insurer within this decision should be taken as including the acts/omissions of those 
intermediaries.
What happened 
Miss S is the executor of her late mothers estate and the sole beneficiary named in her will, 
which was amended in 2014. Her brother is contesting the will however, as he claims that 
his mother lacked testamentary capacity to make any changes at the time given that she 
was suffering from dementia. He is claiming that the will that was in place prior to 2014 (of 
which he was a beneficiary) is the valid will.
Miss S made a claim on her legal expenses insurance with IPA as she required financial 
assistance with her probate dispute. However, IPA said the policy only covers costs to 
pursue legal proceedings. So they declined her claim on the basis that Miss S was seeking 
to defend legal action being brought by her brother, which was not covered. 
Miss S has complained about IPAs decision to decline her claim. In summary, she says:
While her brother is contesting the validity of the current will, she is contesting that 
the previous will is invalid  such that she is pursuing a legal claim rather than 
seeking to defend one.
The relevant policy wording is ambiguous and is likely to be misunderstood by most 
policyholders, such that the term should be construed in her favour.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think IPA had declined the claim 
unfairly as she considered that Miss S was defending rather than pursuing a probate claim. 
And she didnt think the policy wording was unclear in terms of what was covered. Miss S 
disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions state:
Probate
What is insuredCosts to pursue legal proceedings within the territorial limits by you in respect of a 
probate dispute involving the will of your deceased parents or grandparents, children, 
step-children or adopted children where you are contesting a will as a beneficiary.
The term pursue is not defined by the policy, so I have applied its ordinary meaning in this 
context of taking legal action against another person. In other words, it is the claimant that 
instigates or pursues legal proceedings against the defendant (unless the defendant is 
bringing a counterclaim against the claimant, in which case they could be said to be pursuing 
legal proceedings).
In the circumstances of Miss Ss probate dispute, it is her brother that is contesting the 
validity of the current will. And as the executor of her late mothers estate, that would mean 
that she is the defendant. So it cannot reasonably be said that she is pursuing legal 
proceedings in this instance because she is not contesting the validity of the current will, but 
rather is seeking to defend its validity. 
Miss S says she is pursuing legal proceedings because she is contesting her brothers 
position that the previous will is valid. But Miss S would not have been required to dispute 
her brothers position had he not brought legal proceedings in the first place. So Im not 
persuaded that this constitutes the pursuit of legal proceedings as it is clear that Miss S is 
simply defending the action being that is being pursued by her brother. And Ive seen no 
evidence that would suggest the legal action Miss S is taking would be considered as a 
counterclaim either.
So I do not consider that IPA has declined Miss Ss claim unfairly, as the policy only states 
that it will cover the cost of pursuing legal action. And having considered the policy 
holistically, I do not think the term is ambiguous or unclear as to what is covered, especially 
given that this particular clause does not mention defence costs, as the policy directly 
specifies where such costs will be covered (see, for example, the Consumer Disputes and 
Legal Defence sections of the policy). So I do not think the reasonable policyholder would 
misunderstand the word pursue in this context to mean that defence costs were also 
covered. I appreciate Miss S considers this term to be unfair. But an insurer is entitled to 
choose which risks they will and will not indemnify. And the fact that IPA have chosen not to 
cover defence costs for probate claims in this instance does not mean that the term is unfair. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, and I sympathise with the difficult 
position she is in and the financial hardship the ongoing legal action is causing her. But I 
cannot fairly or reasonably direct IPA to indemnify her claim when it relates to a risk they 
have chosen not to cover under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman