DRN-4299577
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited didnt default her account when 
she went into a payment arrangement. She also complains that Creation charged fees to her 
account after she had notified it that she was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs M says she first contacted Creation on 5 November 2018 to let it know that she was in 
financial difficulties, and she was working with a debt management firm to come to an 
agreement with her creditors. At this time, she made a token payment of £5.
In November 2018, Creation applied three separate charges to Mrs Ms account  two 
overlimit fees and one late payment fee, totalling £36. 
In December 2018, Creation accepted a payment arrangement  the arrangement was 
intended to be on a temporary basis. And Creation agreed to freeze interest on the account 
for a 12 month period. Mrs M maintained reduced repayments at the agreed amount for 
around six months. After this time, Creation sold the debt on to a debt purchaser. 
Mrs M says that Creation has treated her unfairly by not defaulting her account. She says 
that arrears on the account had built up to a stage where the account should have defaulted 
 which is in line with guidance published by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
She said that Creation were unfair to have charged her a £99 annual fee for the account 
when she got into difficulties shortly after this and so had no use of the account. She also 
thought it was unfair that she had been charged £36 in fees after she let it know that she 
was in financial difficulties.
Creation responded to Mrs Ms complaint and upheld it in part. It agreed to refund the £99 
annual fee as it could see that Mrs M had entered a repayment plan not long after this and 
so had no use of the account. It didnt agree to refund the £36 of fees because these had 
been applied to the account prior to the payment arrangement having been set up. It also 
thought it had treated Mrs M fairly by not defaulting the account. 
The Investigator considered what both parties had said, and in their most recent view, they 
said Creation should also refund the £36 worth of fees, because Mrs M had let Creation 
know that she was in financial difficulties prior to the fee being charged. The Investigator 
maintained that it wasnt unfair of Creation to not default the account. 
Mrs M accepted that the refund of the fees should be applied. But she still didnt agree that 
she had been treated fairly in relation to the account not having defaulted prior to it being 
sold to the debt purchaser. And so, she asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the matter.
Creation also responded to say that it had applied the fees fairly and so didnt agree these 
should be refunded. The Investigator sent Creation evidence that Mrs M let it know she was 
in financial difficulties prior to the fees being charged. Creation didnt respond to the 
Investigators most recent email  so it isnt clear whether or not it had accepted the 
Investigators view that the fees should be refunded.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached on how to resolve matters, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, I will be partially upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint  for much of the same reasons to that of the Investigator. Ill explain how I have 
come to my decision below.
Account charges 
Mrs M has provided this service with a copy of a letter she sent to Creation on 5 November 
2018. The letter explains she was in financial difficulty and working with a debt management 
firm, who she says Creation would hear from soon. Mrs M asked for breathing space until it 
had heard from the debt management firm.
After this, on 13, 14 and 22 November, Creation applied fees to Mrs Ms account because 
she had gone over the agreed credit limit and was late making a repayment.
I only have a copy of the letter provided by Mrs M, so I cant know in all certainty whether it 
was sent or received by Creation. However, I can see that the letter was correctly 
addressed, and Creation hasnt disputed receiving the letter. So, Im of the view that it was 
likely received by Creation, which means it ought to have been aware at the time it added 
the charges to Mrs Ms account that she was struggling financially.
I accept that the charges Creation applied to the account were in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. But given Mrs M had let Creation know she was in financial 
difficulty, prior to the charges being applied, I think it would be fair in the circumstances, for 
Creation to refund these fees. 
Account not defaulting
Mrs M has relied on the guidance set by the ICO, to evidence that it was unfair of Creation 
not to default the account. This guidance states that an account should default when it is 
between three to six months in arrears. And because Mrs M was making less than the 
minimum repayment each month, her account was in arrears to a point where it should have 
defaulted. Mrs M has also said that none of the correspondence she received explained that 
the account wouldnt default.
Creation has also provided guidance from the ICO to explain why it didnt default the 
account. Amongst other things, this guidance states that:
A default should not be filed:
If jointly with the lender an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you keep to 
the terms of that arrangement
Given that Mrs M had made an agreement with Creation to make reduced repayments, and 
taking into account this guidance from the ICO, I dont think it was unfair of Creation to not 
default Mrs Ms account.I accept that generally, when an account is in arrears of three to six months, then it would be 
fair to default an account. But in this case, given that Mrs M was in an arrangement with 
Creation to repay a reduced amount, and Mrs M had stuck to the arrangement, it wouldnt 
have been fair of Creation to default the account. 
I can see that around six months after the arrangement was put in place, Creation sold the 
account to a debt purchaser. The terms and conditions of the account allow it to do this, so I 
cant fairly say that this was unreasonable. I take Mrs Ms point that Creation had decided to 
end the arrangement by selling the account, and she feels that this means that it should 
have defaulted the account. But as Ive explained, Creation had accepted a payment 
arrangement in an effort to help Mrs M, so wasnt required to default her account nor do I 
think its acted unfairly by not doing so. And given the impact a default could have on 
someones credit file, I wouldnt have expected Creation to default an account where it didnt 
need to. 
I also think it was fair of Creation to refund the £99 annual fee given Mrs M entered into a 
payment arrangement shortly afterwards. Its unclear if this has been refunded, so Ive 
included this in my overall outcome.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs M, Creation should:
Refund £36 to the account. It should reduce the overall outstanding balance with the 
debt purchaser by £36.
If it hasnt done so already, refund the £99 annual fee it applied to Mrs Ms account. 
This should be used to reduce the outstanding balance with the debt purchaser.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I order Creation Financial 
Services Limited to put things right for Mrs M by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman