DRN-3194571
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) irresponsibly granted 
him a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In June 2015, Mr S took receipt of a car that he financed through a hire purchase agreement 
with TCFS. Mr S was required to monthly repayments of £255.49 over the 36-month 
agreement with a final optional payment of £10 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the 
agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £9,197.64.
Mr S says that TCFC didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. TCFC didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment by reviewing bank statements and Mr Ss credit file and by 
asking him to confirm his income and expenditure.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought TCFC ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr S.
TCFC didnt agree. In a response to us in March 2022 they explained that views on gambling 
and pay day loans in 2015, when the application was made, were very different than they 
are now. They also provided evidence to show a call had been made to Mr S to clarify 
details on his bank statement and that in the first twelve months of his agreement hed 
always been up to date except for a couple of slow payments. They explained that Mr S had 
been a good payer on his previous agreement and that would have had a great bearing on 
the business decision to lend again. They understood that evidence now suggested Mr Ss 
income was lower than had been established at the time of the application but they said 
even when that was taken into account hed still have about £924 of disposable income a 
month from which he could afford the monthly instalments on this new application.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TCFC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think TCFC gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr S about his ability to repay. I say this because it reviewed his credit file, 
looked at his bank statements for the three-month period immediately before the application 
and asked him about his income and expenditure. 
However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. 
Mr S declared his income as £3,020 and TCFC calculated it as about £3,568. But in 
calculating that income TCFC included payments from gambling and income from payday 
loans and from another account of Mr Ss that they hadnt sought information from. The bank 
statements suggest his actual income was about £2,153 on average. Whilst that may have 
been sufficient to cover his expenditure I think there was a lot of evidence that Mr S was 
struggling to control his finances. 
The credit checks TCFC completed showed he had a total debt of about £37,000 and that 
several accounts had been defaulted and with significant balances. Bank statements 
showed that Mr S was gambling heavily (£1,772 in March 2015 three months before the 
application). They also showed he was taking out pay day loans and hadnt made a payment 
to one hed taken out in March 2015. Whilst views on gambling and pay day loans may 
have changed over the years I still think Mr Ss financial struggles should have been clear to 
TCFC. His payment history on the account he had with them was only one of the issues they 
should fairly have considered when they were establishing if Mr S could sustainably afford to 
repay this loan.
I think it should have been clear to TCFC that Mr S was struggling financially and was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the debt. TCFC therefore didnt make a fair lending 
decision. 
Putting things right
Mr S has explained that the car was written off after it was in an accident 11 months into the 
agreement. After the insurance pay out and Mr Ss contributions were taken into account 
there was a still a balance to be paid.
As I dont think TCFC ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all the 
payments Mr S has made, including any deposit (although I cant see one was paid here). 
However, Mr S did have use of the car for around 11 months, so I think its fair he pays for 
that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly repayments of over £255 are a fair reflection of 
what fair usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards 
repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement,    
Mr Ss likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr S should pay is £140 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means TCFC can only ask him to repay a total of 
£1,540. Anything Mr S has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ss complaint TCFC should do the following:
Waive any interest and charges still owed by Mr S.
Refund all the payments Mr S has made, less £1,540 for fair usage. 
oIf Mr S has paid more than the fair usage figure, TCFC should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr S has paid less than the fair usage figure, TCFC should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. Once TCFC has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the agreement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires TCFC to take off tax from this interest. TCFC must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr S asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd to put things right in 
the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman