DRN-3280659
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) imposed unfair 
charges after the return of a car he had acquired on finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
There are two matters which I have to address, the charge for damage to an alloy wheel and 
the fact only two of the three services due were carried out.
Mr D entered into an agreement in which he agreed to return the car in a satisfactory 
standard and if there were any defects which went beyond far wear and tear he would be 
subject to a charge. Initially MBFS sought to charge Mr D for damage to a door but it 
removed this after a further review. 
The initial inspection did not pick up any damage to the alloy, but a more detailed one 
carried out at the car reception centre identified a scratch which went beyond fair wear and 
tear. It is not unusual for damages not to be identified at collection. The second inspections 
are usually caried out in better conditions and scratches can be seen which had previously 
been missed. 
The alloy has a scratch which extends beyond 50mm and as set out in the MBFS vehicle 
return requirements this is deemed to be outside fair wear and tear. This is line with the 
industry standards as set out in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations 
guidelines. As such I cannot conclude MBFS has done anything wrong. I would add that I do 
not consider it likely that the damage occurred after the car was collected.
On the matter of the missed service it wasnt down to MBFS to arrange servicing for Mr D. I 
appreciate he encountered difficulties in booking the car into his dealer due to Covid. I am 
not aware of what efforts he made to ensure the third service was done, but I cannot see 
why he is entitled to a refund. MBFS didnt require him to have specified services carried out 
other than it be done in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations.
Circumstances led to him only requiring two services but that but I cannot conclude that this 
was due to an error made by MBFS. It simply said you are entitled to three services during 
the finance period and it was down to Mr D to make use of this as he saw fit. I appreciate 
Covid came into play, but that does not mean I can hold MBFS responsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman