DRN-2882219
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that she was told she wouldnt have to pay overdraft fees or 
interest for the first £1000 of her overdraft. But she has since found that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has been charging her for her overdraft, even when it was below £1000.
What happened
Mrs D has had both a single account and a joint account with Barclays for very many 
years. She discovered in 2019 that she had been paying overdraft fees. This was despite 
being told an overdraft up to £1000 would be free. She says she had enough savings in a 
building society to not use the overdraft, and only used it to avoid losing interest on her 
building society savings.
In July 2018, a Barclays telephone banking adviser told Mrs D that the first £1000 of her 
overdraft would be free on both her accounts. Ive listened to the phone recording and 
this was the very clear advice. This was repeated in at least one later call. And when 
Mrs D complained to Barclays that shed been charged, initially it is clear that Barclays 
complaints staff also thought that she had been wrongly charged.
The error arose because the bank account description on the Barclays system included 
the word premier  it seems that this was a name given to a bank account many years 
ago.
Staff thought this meant this was a Premier package bank account, which did include, as 
one of its benefits, a fee-free overdraft. But this was a mistake and, in fact, Mrs Ds accounts 
werent covered by this benefit.
Barclays has since accepted that it wrongly advised Mrs D. It has offered her a total of 
£350 in compensation for the inconvenience and upset it caused. It has also now offered 
to pay an extra £166.50. It says this is to refund the overdraft fees charged to the two 
accounts since Barclays first wrongly advised Mrs D about the overdraft fees  which it 
says happened in 2018. (Barclays doesnt actually charge interest on its overdrafts, but 
instead charges different levels of daily fees.)
Mrs D is unhappy with this because she has not seen a breakdown of the charges, and 
believes that she is owed much more than this for the many years she has been charged 
overdraft fees. She also says the settlement offered by Barclays doesnt take account of 
the inconvenience that has been caused by the confusion and misinformation provided 
by Barclays.
Because there wasnt an agreement, the matter was passed to me to reach a decision. I 
recordings of phone calls, which had not been available to the adjudicator when first giving 
their view of the case. 
So I wrote a provisional decision, to give everyone the chance to comment. This is what I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank 
accounts. Ive kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
My current view is that the settlement that Barclays has now offered is 
reasonable. So I dont intend to tell it to pay more than its already offered. I 
will explain why I think this.
First, though, I should say its unclear whether Mrs D is saying only that she was 
told about the £1000 free overdraft in recent years; or whether she is instead 
saying she was given this false information many years ago when she first opened 
the account, or otherwise took what she has called a Barclays Premier Card to 
which the interest-free deal might have been attached.
Ive decided not to go back to Mrs D and ask her to clarify. This is because I dont 
see that it will make a difference to my decision. I say this because there is only 
evidence that Barclays misled Mrs D from [June] 2018 onwards. I think that, 
immediately before that false advice, Mrs D probably expected to pay interest on 
her all her overdrafts. And, as I explain, it simply wouldnt be possible to get proper 
evidence of what happened when the account opened or when she took the new 
card.
Ive listened to the calls made by Mrs D to the telephone banking service on 11 
June 2018. Mrs D asks about her balance and is told the amount she is 
overdrawn. Then the conversation goes as follows:
Mrs D: How much interest have we paid on 
that so far? 
Bank adviser: You mean the charges?
Mrs D: Yes
The bank adviser then said shed been charged £10.50 in March, £12 in April, and 
£11.25 in May. Mrs D asked how the interest was worked out. The adviser told her 
she would be charged 75p each day if the overdraft used was less than £1000, 
and £1.50 if it was between £1000 and £2000; and more than £2000 would be 
£3.00 per day.
Mrs D then phoned back a short while later and spoke to a different adviser. She 
said this was because she was struggling to understand some of what the first 
adviser was saying. The new adviser gave the same information. However, the 
adviser then added that, as she had a Premier account, she wouldnt pay any 
fees as long as the overdraft was under
£1000. She said this applied to both the accounts.
The adviser asked if Mrs D wanted to transfer some money from one account to 
the other, to bring them both down under £1000; and so this is what Mrs D did.
From listening to the conversations, and how Mrs D responded, I do think its 
likely Mrs D wasnt aware until that point that she might be entitled to a free 
overdraft. It does seem that, up until then, she was expecting to pay fees or 
interest on all her overdraft.However, I can see Mrs D might be saying that she now remembers being told 
about the free overdraft many years earlier, right back from when she opened the 
account, or at least took the card.
But this does present real problems in evidence and in reaching a fair 
conclusion. I have to be fair, and so I would need reasonable evidence that 
Barclays did mislead Mrs D years earlier, and effectively mis-sold the bank 
account or card.
But it simply wouldnt be possible to get evidence of what Barclays told her all that 
time ago. Also, I can see that Barclays has listed the charges in bank statements 
at least since 2014 (the earliest copies Ive seen) and also referred to the charges 
in other letters. So I would also need to understand why Mrs D didnt notice the 
overdraft fees over the years, especially as she does now appear to be diligent in 
managing her account.
So, overall, I think its fair to expect Barclays to refund the fees from June 2018 
onwards, but not earlier than that.
Ive looked at Mrs Ds statements and annual summaries of charges, and it 
does look as though Barclays are right to refund £166.50.
I can see that Mrs D has been put to a lot of trouble in sorting out the confusion 
which was made entirely by Barclays error. Barclays has offered £350 and this 
is within the range I would normally expect for this level of inconvenience and 
upset.
I said I intended to uphold the complaint. But I also said I thought Barclays had now made 
a reasonable offer, and so my view was that I should only require Barclays to pay the 
refund of fees, and compensation for upset and inconvenience, at the level it has offered.
Barclays said it had no further comment to make. 
Mrs D made several points in response to my provisional decision. Her main points were as 
follows.
Mrs D said:
I consider that these recordings [with the telephone banking service and when 
making her complaint to Barclays] alone are evidence enough to support my claim. 
They not only provide real evidence of the original misrepresentation (that I would not 
and should not have been charged any overdraft fees), but also of the fact that I was 
promised that all of the overdraft fees that I had been charged (wrongly) would be 
reimbursed. None of the telephone calls refer to a start date or a cut-off date for 
these refunds, although the Ombudsman is now attempting to impose a date (June 
2018) retrospectively, when the evidence does not support this.
Mrs D said she has suffered financially as a direct result of errors that were not her fault and 
the refund of £166.50 is wholly inadequate. 
Mrs D says the sum of £350 as compensation of inconvenience and upset is inadequate:
This matter has been ongoing for several years and Barclays initially dismissed my 
complaint, which the Ombudsman has since upheld.I have had to persevere for several years against a backdrop of Barclays various 
denials and arguments, even having to request and listen through several telephone 
recordings, which eventually helped to prove my case.
Mrs D said I made no reference to the upset caused by the false information about her 
applying for an account with another bank which had been rejected; and also wrongly being 
told that she was being offered £1000 in compensation. She said, This is indicative of the 
string of errors and misrepresentation that I have had to endure throughout this whole 
process. She said £350 is way short of the amount that would compensate me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points made by Mrs D, but Ive decided to confirm my 
provisional decision. 
I agree that the telephone calls are evidence that Barclays mis-advised Mrs D. But I believe 
she only incurred avoidable overdraft fees after she was given the wrong advice in June 
2018. Before then, I believe its most likely that Mrs D correctly understood that she was 
liable to pay fees for her overdraft. So I dont see that shes entitled to having fees before 
June 2018 refunded  the fees she incurred before then were both correctly charged and 
she should have expected to incur them. 
Mrs D is also saying she should have her overdraft fees from before June 2018 refunded 
because she considers that, when she later complained to Barclays, she was told this would 
happen.  But believing she had been promised this didnt lead to her losing financially, in the 
sense of incurring extra charges. She instead suffered disappointment at believing she 
would get a larger refund than she actually got (which was the refund she was entitled to). I 
think that is covered in the compensation offer of £350. 
When I assessed the £350 payment offered by Barclays as compensation for the 
inconvenience and upset, I was looking only at the mistakes made by Barclays. It wasnt 
responsible for the mistake of wrongly referring to an account with another bank, or 
misstating the level of compensation offered. 
It is very difficult to assess an appropriate amount of compensation, for the type of stress 
and worry that Barclays caused Mrs D. Nor is it possible really to put a value on the effects 
of each mistake made, and its after effects. But the amount offered by Barclays to Mrs D 
does not strike me as unreasonable. Barclays has also agreed to refund the fees that she 
might otherwise have avoided if shed been given correct advice in June 2018. Overall, I 
think that is a reasonable offer. 
So, my conclusion is that I should confirm my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should, if it has not already, carry out its previously offered redress 
by:
1) Refunding the overdraft fees to the sum of £166.50
2) Paying compensation of £350 for the trouble and upset it caused Mrs D. My final decision
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things rights, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman