DRN-1670952
 
Mr A complains that The Mortgage Business Plc took action to possess his property, unfairly 
and without warning. 
What happened
Mr A took out an interest only mortgage with TMB in 2004. The term expired in 2014. He 
says he wanted to change to a repayment mortgage, but TMB didnt help him with this. So 
he continued to make monthly payments. Mr A says TMB didnt follow the correct process to 
start possession action and it didnt respond to his questions. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said TMB had been in 
regular contact with Mr A and given him time to put forward proposals to repay the balance. 
While TMB hadnt responded specifically to Mr As letters, it had addressed the main issues 
with him in its communications and its final response letter. TMB had considered Mr A 
request for a repayment mortgage, but said this wasnt affordable. Our investigator said TMB 
hadnt behaved unreasonably or unfairly.
Mr A didnt agree. He wants TMB to respond to every point in his letters. And he wants 
signatures on court documents to be checked and verified by a handwriting expert
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr As mortgage expired in 2014. He has an outstanding balance of £175,000. 
Mr A and TMB didnt reach agreement about how the mortgage would be repaid. TMB 
started legal action and was granted a possession order in mid-2019. 
Mr A says TMB didnt follow the correct process in taking legal action. He says it hasnt 
responded specifically to each question in his letters of complaint. And it hasnt responded to 
his request for a repayment mortgage. 
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. Consistent with this, I wont address each 
individual issue raised by Mr A in his letters. Instead, Ill focus on what I think is at the heart 
of this complaint: that Mr A has an unpaid mortgage balance, he believes TMB acted unfairly 
in taking recovery action and hed like to agree a way to repay it without selling his property. 
Mr A borrowed the money from TMB and he does have to pay it back. Fairness requires, as 
a starting point, that he did so when it was due at the end of the term. Unfortunately, Mr As 
circumstances didnt allow this. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to assess affordability and, in the case of 
interest only mortgages, repayment strategy before offering or varying mortgages. There are 
certain exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014, as Mr As was. In brief, TMB 
didnt have to decline Mr As requests for a repayment mortgage or extension of his interest 
only mortgage due to issues with affordability or repayment strategy if the proposed change 
was otherwise in his best interests. 
I should say here though that I think its reasonable for TMB to consider affordability and how 
the mortgage will be repaid when assessing whats in Mr As best interests. 
TMB says it doesnt offer lifetime mortgages. It says a repayment mortgage isnt affordable 
for Mr A. As Mr As income is from a pension it seems unlikely this will change. It says it 
cant offer him an interest only mortgage for a fixed term as Mr A doesnt have a strategy to 
repay the balance.
In mid-2019 TMB referred Mr A to an adviser, at no cost to Mr A, to look into whether hed 
meet criteria for a lifetime mortgage with another provider. I dont know if Mr A discussed his 
options with the adviser, or if hes taken independent advice elsewhere. If not, he could 
consider doing this. 
Otherwise, Mr A has limited options and theres nothing to suggest his position will improve. 
It seems Mr A has no means to repay the mortgage other than by selling the property. Based 
on what TMBs notes say, Mr A has equity in his property currently. He could sell the 
property, repay the mortgage and have some funds left to help him find a new home. Theres 
no guarantee this will continue to be the case if his interest only mortgage is extended  and 
Mr A will have paid more interest in the meantime. Mr A says hes vulnerable due to his age 
and ongoing health conditions. Its possible that moving home will become more difficult for 
him in future.
I dont think its in Mr As best interests for TMB to change his mortgage to a repayment 
basis if he cant afford the monthly payments. Nor, for the reasons above, is it clearly in 
Mr As best interests for TMB to extend his interest only mortgage. So I dont think its 
reasonable or fair to require TMB to offer him a new mortgage or term extension.
Mr A would like TMB to contact him on his mobile phone as hes away from home a lot. Hes 
frustrated that he wasnt at home when field agents visited the property. He says if TMB had 
communicated better, court proceedings could have been avoided.
Mr A might not have seen letters and notices from TMB immediately if he was away from 
home. But TMB has to send some notices and communications in writing. I think its 
reasonable for it to send them to Mr As address. I think its reasonable for it to ask field 
agents to try to contact Mr A at his address. And TMB also says  supported by its records  
that it tried to reach Mr A by phone. TMBs contacts (or attempts at contact) about it taking 
legal action took place over the six months before the court hearing. I think it made 
reasonable efforts to contact Mr A about the steps it was taking.
It seems unlikely that matters would have been different if TMB had been in contact with 
Mr A. Hes been aware of the legal action for about a year. And he was referred to a 
mortgage adviser at about that time. The mortgage balance remains unpaid, and no 
agreement has been reached about how to repay it. 
TMB responded to the main issues raised by Mr A. I dont think it needed to respond to each 
issue individually, or in the same order or using the same format as Mr As letters. And I 
dont think the situation would have been different or better if it had. Mr A has recently raised 
concerns about the signatures on court documents. As this wasnt part of the complaint he 
brought to us, I cant consider it here.
The court issued a possession order. TMB put recovery action on hold while we looked into 
Mr As complaint. And due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, 
the regulator issued guidelines which say that lenders cant take or resume possession 
action until November 2020. This gives Mr M a few months breathing space.Id encourage Mr A to use that time to explore what options might be available to him, and 
consider whether to take independent advice if he hasnt already. He should keep TMB 
informed about the steps hes taking to repay the mortgage, either by re-mortgaging or 
selling the property. Id expect TMB to continue to treat Mr A fairly as he takes the necessary 
steps to repay the mortgage  but, ultimately, if hes not able to it is entitled to take 
possession as a last resort. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman