DRN-3165472
The complaint
Mr W complains Coutts & Company (C&C) failed to identify and thereby prevent a 
substantive number of fraudulent payments made from his accounts by an employee 
between 2010 and 2019.
Mr W has a legal representative, but to keep things simple, Ill mainly refer to Mr W in my 
decision.  
What happened
Mr W says hes relied on employees since the 1970s to assist with his business and 
personal finances. Because of this hes never learned how to operate online banking nor 
learned how to use an ATM cash machine to withdraw funds. 
Mr W employed a new bookkeeper in 2007 - who I shall now refer to us Ms L.
Mr W authorised Ms L in June 2008 with third-party access, and permission to use, his C&C 
accounts. Mr W had well over ten accounts with C&C. 
In June 2019, Mr W initiated a review of his expenditure as he was spending more money 
than he thought he should be. Following this, C&C highlighted a substantive amount of cash 
withdrawals from his accounts. Mr W told C&C he did not recognise them and asked for a 
more extensive review. 
C&C then explained, that in the last year alone, around £45,000 had been withdrawn from 
his personal account at ATMs. Later, C&C told Mr W around £437,000 had been withdrawn 
from his accounts from ATMs, and around £303,000 had been paid to Ms Ls personal 
account using online banking over a period of around 10 years. 
Mr W then initiated legal proceedings against Ms L. He settled outside of court with her but 
was only able to recover a nominal sum from her in comparison to the overall loss he says 
he suffered. 
Mr W then complained to C&C. In short, he said it failed to exercise reasonable skill and 
care in carrying out its services. Though not an exhaustive list, Mr W pointed out three key 
services C&C failed to carry out : 
- To oversee, manage and regularly review his bank accounts and the transactions 
evidenced on the face of his accounts
- To ensure any transactions undertaken in connection with his accounts were properly 
authorised and/or authorised by an appropriate (i.e. duly authorised) individual; and 
- To review Mr Ws accounts regularly for any anomalies or spending patterns and/or 
any other unusual behaviour and/or transactions
Mr W went on to say:
- C&C was aware Ms L was his bookkeeper, and it sent bank statements to her 
instead of him. C&C was aware she was responsible for undertaking Mr Ws 
electronic banking, which he was unable to do himself. So unless C&C contacted 
Mr W directly, he had no means of overseeing the accounts 
- Its inconceivable how C&C let Ms L make transfers to her personal account without 
verifying she was authorised to do so. As Ms L was the only person authorised to 
transfer funds electronically, transfers to her own account should have raised 
concerns 
- Many of the ATM transactions took place in locations which C&C knew Mr W didnt 
live close to. So it ought to have queried these especially as many were carried out 
on a weekend when Mr W was living far away from where they took place. Many 
were also carried out when Mr W was abroad
- C&C should compensate Mr W for his financial loss, and the distress and 
embarrassment hes suffered for failing to properly monitor and review his accounts 
C&C didnt accept that it was reasonable for Mr W to expect it to have identified payments 
made by Ms L as unauthorised or fraudulent. So it said it wasnt responsible for Mr Ws 
losses. 
Some of the key points C&C made were: 
- Ms L was not issued with a debit card in February 2010, so she would have used a 
card issued to Mr W - presumably given to her by him. So Mr W likely divulged his 
card PIN number to a third party and so was in breach of the terms of the account. 
Amongst other things, the terms make it clear that if security credentials are given to 
a third-party, C&C will not be liable for any losses
- As Mr W didnt check his statements, instead entrusting his finances to others like 
Ms L, it does not accept he can accurately differentiate between authorised 
withdrawals and suspicious ones that took place ten years ago 
- As Mr W spent around £1million a year and, given the regularity of transactions both 
in terms of transfers and ATM withdrawals, its clear that significant spending was 
habitual. So, its reasonable transactions carried out by Ms L wouldnt raise 
suspicions nor a red flag on its systems 
- C&C accept that during the years of 2012 to 2015, some statements were addressed 
to Ms L. But its not accepted Mr W didnt have opportunity to check them himself 
during this period  he chose not to. 
Mr W is an experienced businessman, and unfortunately chose to put his trust in 
Ms L in this way. Its not C&Cs role to authenticate who Mr W decides to give control 
of his accounts to. C&C simply acted on the mandates provided by Mr W
- From 2015 up until 2019, when the statements were sent directly to Mr W, he had 
ample opportunity to discover the thefts. And if it wasnt for C&C conducting a 
detailed review in 2019, Mr W would likely have continued to lose money  
- Given Ms Ls instrumental role, its reasonable she would transfer petty cash from 
Mr Ws account into her personal account, and so this wouldnt raise an alarm 
- ATM transactions have been made using Mr Ws debit card. So he should confirm it was him or a third party making them
Unhappy with what C&C said, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators then looked into his complaint. In summary, the key finding they made were: 
- As there is no dispute the withdrawals or bank transfers were carried out, nor that 
there was any technical fault, its most likely the transactions were authenticated. As 
Mr W had given Ms L authority, evidenced by the third-party authorisation forms hed 
signed and his testimony, our Investigator was persuaded Mr W consented to the 
transactions. So they were authorised in line with the relevant regulations
- Ms L was authorised to act in the same way as the principle, Mr W. There isnt any 
evidence up until 2019 when Mr W discovered what had been happening that he 
revoked this authority 
- C&C are unable to show who the statements were addressed to pre 2012 due to a 
change in its systems. But it says between 2012 and 2015 they were sent to Ms L. 
And from 2015 they were addressed to Mr W following a change in his address. 
Whilst our Investigator didnt doubt Mr W was unaware of the disputed spending, 
they could see numerous transactions took place after 2015, when the statements 
were addressed to him. So as the fraud wasnt discovered until 2019, they didnt 
think the statements being addressed to Ms L changed Mr Ws position 
- Bank statements were addressed to Ms L, in the same way they were to the previous 
bookkeeper. So it appears Mr W was happy with this arrangement up until the 
discovery that he was being defrauded 
- Having reviewed the statements, the money taken by Ms L when compared to 
Mr Ws normal spending wasnt out of character
- Whilst its evident Ms L abused her position of trust, its not reasonable for fraud 
detection systems to monitor day to day spending on the accounts which were not 
out of character or suspicious. Ms L after all was set-up with authority to make 
payments on the account 
- Mr W argues that as many of the transfers were referenced P CASH or PC, 
meaning petty cash, C&C shouldve asked why these transactions were being made 
into Ms Ls personal account. But considering Ms Ls central role, and numerous 
payees on the accounts, its reasonable for C&C to have not considered these as 
unusual or suspicious. Nor would petty cash be uncommon in the context of Ms Ls 
role
- Evidence shows Ms L had a card and PIN for the account she was withdrawing from. 
And it appears Mr W was using a different card whilst abroad. As there were different 
cards, and Ms L had authority to act on the account, it wasnt unreasonable for C&C 
to not have challenged this spending even if Mr W was abroad. 
Being able to make payments on the accounts when Mr W was away was likely one 
of the reasons Ms L was given authority 
- As Ms L had authority to use online banking, C&C acted fairly when not detecting the 
fraud. Given the dishonesty with which Ms L acted with, its not possible C&Cs 
systems were able to differentiate between genuine and disputed spending given she 
had been given autonomy on the account. Because of that, the behaviour appeared usual
Mr W, and his representatives, did not agree with what our Investigator said. So Mr Ws 
complaint was passed to me  an Ombudsman  to decide. 
In addition to points already made, and in summary, Mr W and his representatives have 
made the following representations for me to consider: 
- All banks owe a duty of care to their customers to exercise reasonable skill and care 
in carrying out its services.  This duty is implied into contract under common law. As 
part of this duty, where a bank has reasonable grounds for believing than an order to 
make payment is an attempt to misappropriate funds, that bank has a duty to refrain 
from making payment  the Quincecare duty 
- The Quincecare duty is relevant case law that sets out the duty banks owe to its 
clients. The two important points to take from this are: 
Where a bank has reasonable grounds to suspect a transaction is an attempt 
to defraud a customer of their funds, it has a duty not to effect that transaction 
and to investigate 
The existence of the duty is predicated on the assumption the person whose 
fraud is suspected is the very person who has been trusted by the banks 
client to be a signatory on the account. So given an agent, like Ms L, has 
authority to effect transactions on behalf of Mr W, this isnt sufficient to 
absolve the bank of a duty to investigate transactions
- Payments by Ms L from Mr Ws accounts to her own are exactly the type of 
transactions which give reasonable grounds for a bank to investigate
- In the two years preceding Ms Ls appointment, there were no transactions from 
Mr Ws accounts referenced as P CASH or PC. As C&C say it has systems in 
place to detect fraud, it should have identified that substantial sums were being paid 
directly to Ms Ls accounts for a purpose inconsistent with Mr Ws account history
- Ms L transferred hundreds of thousands of pounds directly into her account in a 
manner that was inconsistent with the historic operation of Mr Ws accounts. Ms Ls 
fraud was obvious and glaring
- Once Ms L was granted authority to use Mr Ws accounts, C&C should have taken 
steps to identify payments made from those accounts that bore her name. Its an 
obvious opportunity for fraud. Mr W was entitled to expect C&C to carry out basic 
steps to protect him from fraud
As Mr W does not agree with what our Investigator said, it follows I must now decide this 
complaint. 
Relevant considerations 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations (PSR) - and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. So I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case.But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty)
Regulated firms like C&C are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6)
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to:
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Mr W, so Ill explain why. 
Both parties are aware of the transactions in dispute here, so I dont need to list them here. It 
would also be grossly impractical to do so given the sheer volume and period they took 
place over.   
Authorisation
Theres no dispute between the parties the payments made by Ms L werent authenticated 
using the proper form. That would likely mean the use of a debit card and PIN for the ATM 
transactions, and the correct application of security credentials for online banking. 
So because of this and given I havent seen any evidence or suggestion of technical issues, 
Im satisfied its most likely all the transactions were authenticated in line with the proper 
form. 
So I now need to think about whether the evidence suggests Mr W consented to the 
payments being made. 
Mr W says he gave Ms L third-party authority to access and use his accounts with C&C in 
June 2008.  Ive seen a handful of third-party authorisation forms, the earliest of which was 
dated April 2008. Theres also a third-party authorisation form for online banking granting 
Ms L authority to run and use Mr Ws online banking facility  also dated April 2008.  
Ive looked closely at all of Mr Ws account statements. I can see the payments disputed 
here, bar three ATM transactions, occurred after the date of the third-party mandate. So as 
Mr W gave express authorisation for Ms L to run his accounts, Im satisfied he consented to 
the transactions. That means they were authorised in line with what the PSRs say.  As Ive alluded to before, there are three ATM transactions made before the signed 
third-party document Ive seen. These took place in January 2008, February 2008 and early 
April 2008. All three of the transactions were for £250. Additionally, Mr W has said Ms L 
didnt get her own linked debit card until February 2010. 
Mr W has said he placed significant trust in Ms L  even before he gave her the mandated 
authority to run his accounts. So its most likely she was given Mr Ws debit card to withdraw 
these funds. Ive ruled out Mr W withdrawing these funds himself as hes said he doesnt 
know how to operate an ATM. 
So Im persuaded its most likely Mr W gave Ms L his card PIN number which allowed her to 
carry out cash withdrawals. That means Im satisfied these payments were also consented 
to by Mr W.
Taken together, Im satisfied the transactions in dispute here were authorised in line with 
what the PSRs say about this. So they dont need to be refunded under the provisions of 
these regulations.  
Should C&C have done more to protect Mr W from financial harm? 
Mr W, and his representatives, feel strongly that C&C failed in its duty to protect him from 
financial harm. They feel the fraudulent activities of Ms L, and the circumstances therein, 
were more than enough for C&C to have held reasonable grounds for believing the payment 
instructions were an attempt to misappropriate funds. 
Broadly speaking, Mr W makes his argument here in two separate strands. That is Mr Ws 
historical spend was inconsistent to that of the ATM transactions Ms L was making. And 
secondly, C&C should have picked up on the online transfers to Ms Ls personal account 
given the inherent risks that an authorised person has to abuse their position. Mr W feels the 
failure to do so was a failing under the Quincecare duty and related case law.
Id like to assure Mr W and his representative that Ive carefully thought about everything 
theyve said about this  even if I havent expressly reiterated all their representations here.  
ATM transactions
Ive considered if the ATM transactions were particularly unusual or sufficiently out of 
character. Its not clear from the information I have when exactly Ms L had a debit card in her 
own name. Mr W says Ms L didnt have a linked debit card in her name until February 2010. 
But as Ive said already the first three transactions of £250 occurred in the first quartile of 
2008  when Ms L wasnt even an authorised third-party.  
In broad terms a pattern of smaller withdrawals of around £250 a month occur until the 
summer of 2008, when they then move to £500 a month  presumably the withdrawal limit 
for a single transaction. This pattern broadly then plays out until around 2010 when it starts 
to increase to two, and then three and sometimes four withdrawals a month up until 2019. 
In isolation, theres an argument to be had this pattern should have raised some concern 
with C&C. But I dont think it was sudden enough to have raised concern for C&C to 
investigate. The withdrawals first started without Ms L having her own card  so it would 
appear to C&C that Mr W was making them. They then built up in value and then frequency 
over a significantly long period of time  so much so that they appear to form a normal and 
naturally progressive pattern on the account. 
Lastly, and quite importantly, when held up against the substantive payments being made from the accounts, they dont, when taken together, stand out enough in my opinion to have 
raised concerns with C&C to investigate further. 
So this means I dont think C&C failed in its duty to protect Mr W from financial harm for the 
ATM transactions. Id also add that Ms L being an authorised individual on the account, 
would also have not caused concerns in the circumstances of this complaint. I say that 
because its more than apparent from C&Cs internal notes, and Mr Ws testimony, that Ms L 
was given significant autonomy, and had a central role in managing his banking relationship 
with C&C. Its also apparent she was well known to C&Cs staff and had regular interactions 
with them. 
Mr W says that many ATM transactions took place in the UK when he was abroad, typically 
in the winter months when C&C knew he was away. And that there were withdrawals on the 
weekends in locations C&C knew Mr W was residing far away from. So this should have 
been picked up as unusual. 
But a key reason Ms L was likely given authority to run Mr Ws accounts was because of his 
very busy lifestyle, and his regular patterns of travelling abroad or being away from his main 
offices. So I dont think this pattern in of itself would, and should have, raised concern 
enough for C&C to investigate. 
Online transactions 
In short, Mr W argues that online transfers made to Ms Ls personal account should have 
triggered concerns, and therefore further investigation by C&C. It highlights related case law 
to the Quincecare duty which it says puts a greater onus on banks to monitor the activity of 
authorised individuals and/or that there is an additional duty of enquiry because of this. 
But to arrive at this point, and as Mr W says, Id have to be persuaded C&C had reasonable 
grounds for believing the payment(s) were part of a scheme to defraud the customer. 
The first online transactions by Ms L started taking place on Mr Ws accounts from early 
2009. These types of transactions occur over four of Mr Ws accounts, at different times and 
irregular intervals, and often with the reference of either P CASH or PC. The amounts 
range from about £250 to £6,000  with a variety of variations in-between. 
When taken against the typical spend on these accounts, they dont, to my mind, appear 
unusual or out of character. Mr Ws accounts use online payments frequently and with 
varying amounts not dissimilar to the disputed online transactions, and often for much larger 
sums. So it follows that I dont think they represented a sudden change in the activity of the 
accounts enough to have triggered further investigation from C&C. 
Mr W says the payment references in of themselves should have raised concerns with C&C. 
I cant say conclusively that PC or P CASH refer to petty cash  but it would be a 
reasonable assumption to make. C&Cs staff knew Ms L was an authorised party on Mr Ws 
accounts, and as Ive said, it knew she had a central role and dealt with her directly quite a 
lot  so Im persuaded C&C wouldnt think money transferred to Ms Ls own account under 
this reference was unusual or out of character. 
It's worth noting that these transfers first started happening shortly after Ms L was given 
account authority, and given they continued to occur at regular intervals thereafter, they 
would have become habitual patterns so much so that they didnt stand out as being out of 
character or a sudden change in the activity on the account.
Mr W says that just the fact money was transferred by Ms L into her own account should have triggered C&C to investigate. Ive already said that for most of the time this was 
happening it wouldve appeared normal activity given it had increased gradually as a pattern. 
Id also add that when it first started occurring, the fact that Mr W had recently appointed 
Ms L and as petty cash wouldve been a reasonable reason to withdraw these amounts, 
C&C wouldnt be on alert or enquiry to investigate further. In other words, this activity 
wouldnt have raised a reasonable concern when they first started. 
C&C havent been able to show to whom the statements were addressed to before 2012 as 
its system doesnt allow it to see this anymore. But it says that between 2012 and 2015 they 
were addressed to Ms L. After that point they were addressed to Mr W following an address 
change. 
Mr W argues that as the statements werent addressed to him, he wasnt able to detect the 
fraudulent transactions before he did so in 2019 when the ATM withdrawals were brought to 
his attention by C&C.
Its more than unhelpful that I dont have conclusive evidence to show whether the 
statements were addressed to Mr W before 2012. But in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, it appears he was sent statements addressed to him from 2015. So I question why 
he didnt raise this issue before. 
It's also worth noting the PSRs say a consumer is entitled to a refund of unauthorised 
transactions if theyre reported without undue delay, and no later than 13 months. Ive 
already said the transactions in dispute here have been authorised. But the regulation in this 
context helps set a rough timeframe of when its reasonable to review your statements.   
In any case, it appears Mr W didnt check his statements or trusted Ms L to the extent that 
she opened and reviewed his mail from C&C. Based on Mr Ws testimony, and the strong 
level of trust placed on Ms L, I think the latter scenario is most likely. That is, Mr W trusted 
Ms L so much that he didnt open and review his C&C statements, even if it was addressed 
to him directly. 
It's grossly unfortunate Mr Ws trust in Ms L was misplaced, but thats not something C&C 
should be held liable for. After all, there is a duty upon him to review his statements, 
especially periodically over a 12-year period  but it appears he chose not to. I also dont 
think the statements being addressed to Mr W would have made any difference, given they 
didnt in 2015 and onwards. 
So, after weighing everything up, Im satisfied the disputed transactions were authorised in 
line with the PSRs and I havent seen anything to suggest C&C should have intervened to 
prevent Mr W falling victim to fraud. As I dont think C&C did anything wrong, I wont be 
asking it to award any compensation for the distress and embarrassment Mr W says he has 
suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman