DRN-3173206
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with his mobile phone insurance 
claim. My references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Mr G has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. The insurer is Aviva. On or 
about 7 July 2021 Mr G contacted Aviva to claim for his damaged phone which had 512Gb 
of memory. Aviva accepted the claim. Mr G said Aviva told him that as it only had the 256Gb 
version of his phone in stock it would send him an e-voucher so he could buy the 512Gb 
version at a named store.
Aviva emailed Mr G an e-voucher for £1,200. But Mr G found out that at the store the 512Gb 
version cost £1,329 and it was out of stock. The 256Gb version cost £1,200.
On 12 July 2021 Mr G told Aviva that it hadnt sent enough to buy a replacement for his 
phone. It asked Mr G to provide proof that his damaged phone was the 512Gb version which 
he provided the same day. 
On 13 July Aviva said it would cancel the e-voucher and transfer a cash settlement of £1,329 
to Mr Gs bank account so he could buy the 512 Gb version of the phone direct from the 
phone manufacturer. It cancelled the voucher on 15 July and told Mr G the payment could 
take up to 5 working days. Mr G told Aviva hed received the money on 22 July 2021.
Mr G complained to Aviva about its claim handling and the delay. Aviva accepted it hadnt 
registered the correct version of Mr Gs phone when he made the claim and the e-voucher 
amount wasnt enough to buy the correct version of the phone. It said thered been a delay in 
Mr G receiving the refund. Aviva offered Mr G £100 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service, which he rejected.
Mr G complained to us. In addition to the £100 he wants Aviva to pay £453 which he paid to 
upgrade his plan with his phone provider from a sim only contract to include a new phone. 
He said he had to get a new phone that way because of Avivas delay and hed been upset 
and stressed by Avivas delay as he couldnt do his daily activities without a phone.
Our investigator thought Avivas offer of £100 compensation was fair.
Mr G disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said we needed to 
listen to the calls between himself and Aviva, Aviva should have asked for evidence about 
his phone before it sent the voucher and its delay was unreasonable.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I think overall Aviva made him a fair offer. Ill explain why.
I dont think I need to listen to the call recordings between Mr G and Aviva. Ive considered 
what Mr G says Aviva told him and Avivas notes of the calls. Aviva doesnt dispute that it 
registered the wrong version of Mr Gs phone when he made the claim or that the e-voucher 
amount was insufficient to buy the correct phone. Aviva apologised for those mistakes and 
offered compensation.
Mr G is concerned that due to those errors Aviva unreasonably delayed in settling the claim 
which caused him upset and expense.
But although Aviva initially made mistakes in registering the version of the phone and the 
voucher amount I dont think all the delay in providing the correct cash settlement to Mr G 
was an unreasonable delay.
The policy says:
In the event that Aviva is unable to source a suitable replacement, Aviva will, at its 
sole discretion, make a settlement in vouchers or cash up to the claims limit shown 
on your current policy schedule (less the excess), based upon the current cost to you 
of a phone of the same or similar specification.
Mr G says Aviva told him it didnt have a 512 Gb version of the phone in stock. So I think 
Aviva acted in line with the policy terms, and reasonably, in initially sending him a voucher to 
settle his claim. Even if Aviva had registered the phone correctly and sent him a voucher for 
the correct amount to buy the 512 Gb version he wouldnt have been able to because the 
store where the voucher was valid didnt have the correct phone in stock. I dont think Aviva 
was at fault in not checking whether the store had the phone because stock would be 
constantly changing so Aviva couldnt know if a phone would definitely be in stock when 
Mr G received the voucher. 
Mr G told Aviva there was a problem with the voucher amount, and that the correct phone 
was out of stock at the store, on 12 July. It then asked him for proof of his phone details, 
which it could reasonably ask for under the following policy term:
You or any insured person may be required to provide information, documents or 
receipts reasonably necessary to support and/or verify the claim, including proof of 
ownership 
Aviva could have asked Mr G for the proof when he first made the claim but it didnt and 
I dont think not doing so made a substantive difference to the delay because Aviva and the 
store still wouldnt have had the correct phone in stock. Mr G provided the proof the same 
day. 
Aviva acted fairly in offering a cash settlement for the correct amount and in wanting to 
cancel the voucher before authorising the cash payment. Its reasonable that Aviva didnt 
want to be in a position where it was possible for Mr G to have the benefit of both the 
voucher and cash settlement. It would have been the same situation even if the voucher had 
been for the correct amount. The voucher was cancelled on 15 July and Mr G received his 
cash settlement within 5 working days of the voucher cancellation, the timescale Aviva gave 
for the payment.
Mr G says when he first made the claim Aviva told him he would have a replacement phone 
within 48 hours of it collecting his damaged phone. But as Aviva also told him it didnt have 
the 512 Gb version of the phone in stock and it needed to issue the voucher he knew that 
unfortunately it wasnt as straight forward as Aviva just sending him a replacement phone 
from its stock. For the reasons above, although there was a delay in Mr G getting the cash settlement I think much of the delay would have been the same even if Aviva hadnt made 
the mistakes in registering the incorrect phone. The delay was unfortunate but not 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G says he needed a phone while he was waiting for Aviva to settle the claim. I do 
understand he was frustrated and inconvenienced by not having a phone. But the policy 
specifically says Any loss related to an insured person being unable to use the phone isnt 
covered. So that cost isnt covered by the policy terms and as I dont think most of the delay 
in settling Mr Gs claim was unreasonable I cant fairly say Aviva has to pay the additional 
costs of Mr Gs new phone contract.   
Aviva offered Mr G £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience it caused which 
I think is fair in the overall circumstances. I dont think it paid him that amount as he didnt 
accept the offer so Aviva should now make that payment.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr G £100 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should now pay Mr G the 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman