DRN-2086209
The complaint
Ms R complained about 2 loans she took out through a company called Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading at the time as Moneyboat. Ms R says she was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Moneyboat throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Ms R took out 2 instalment loans from Moneyboat, between July 2019 
and October 2019. I enclosed a summary of Ms Rs borrowing, based on the information 
provided to us:
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 2 onwards. Moneyboat didnt agree with the adjudicators 
view, so the complaint has come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Ms Rs complaint.
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms R could repay the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Moneyboat should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Loan Date taken Date repaid Loan amount Highest 
instalment 
repayment 
amount
1 22/07/2019 17/10/2019 £200 £73
2 21/10/2019 Outstanding £1500 £429the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Ms R could sustainably repay her loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the re-payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Ms R 
could sustainably make her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Moneyboat most likely carried out would have been quite basic ones. For loan 
number 1, I think such checks were probably proportionate given the new lending and it 
would have looked as if the repayments werent unaffordable for her. I therefore dont uphold 
this part of Ms Rs complaint.
However, the relevance of the length of the lending relationship doesnt come without some 
caveats. I think from the point of loan 2, for example, the situation was quite different in that 
Ms R applied for this loan not long after taking the first one out; basically she was asking to 
borrow a vastly increased amount. Naturally, the repayments she needed to make therefore 
increased substantially, because she was asking for much more money. However, in my 
view, the amount she was being required to pay with each instalment represented such a 
high proportion of her income, this made the loan unsustainable.
Moneyboat says because the lending relationship hadnt become established for very long, it 
wasnt required to go into any great detail with regard to Ms Rs personal finances. But whilst 
we do consider how long the lending relationship has been, we also consider other relevant 
factors too. In Ms Rs situation, it was so obvious that she was probably going to encounter 
hardship in paying loan 2 back: any reasonable, competent assessment would have shown 
that, with such high repayments, Ms R would have absolutely no room for manoeuvre. This 
type of high-cost and indeed high-risk lending therefore exacerbated Ms Rs financial 
vulnerability and exposed her to potential undue harm. 
In short, she was lent to irresponsibly. Moneyboat failed in its duty to see the lending was 
sustainable. I therefore uphold this aspect of her complaint
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms R, Moneyboat should:
A. refund all interest and charges Ms R paid on loan number 2;B. pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
C. pay Ms R the total of A plus B;
D. remove any adverse information Moneyboat has recorded on Ms Rs credit file in 
relation to loan 2;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Ms R a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Ms Rs complaint and I direct Evergreen Finance London Limited to put 
things right for Ms R as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman