DRN-4253194
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund money he lost when he 
fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
Mr B is being represented by a claims management company in this complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties and have also been set out 
previously by the investigator. So, Ill provide a brief overview and focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.
In September 2022, Mr B made two card payments  £1,000 and £5,000  to a 
cryptocurrency exchange from his newly opened Wise account, which he set up specifically 
for the investment opportunity under the instructions of his financial adviser. Unfortunately, 
the opportunity and the adviser turned out to be a scam. 
Mr B notified Wise about the scam in November 2022. It was unable to recover the funds 
from the beneficiary and refused to refund the transactions. Our investigator concluded that 
Wise ought to have given a general scam warning when Mr B authorised the £5,000 
transaction. But they didnt think this would have stopped him from going ahead with the 
payment. 
Mr Bs representative doesnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, the 
representative submits that the £5,000 was out of character compared to Mr Bs normal 
account activity and it went to a cryptocurrency exchange. The representative also states 
that the outcome is inconsistent with an ombudsmans final decision on another complaint 
about Wise which has identical facts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr Bs representative knows that this service considers each case on its own merits. 
I dont intend to comment on the findings made by one of my ombudsman colleagues 
on a different case, save to say that the facts of that case and the one before me 
arent basically identical as has been suggested. The transaction amount involved 
might have been the same, but in Mr Bs case the account had been opened just five 
days prior to the first disputed transaction. Unlike the other case, there was no 
transaction history here for Wise to have compared the disputed transactions to.
Wise is an electronic money institution (EMI), not a bank or building society. EMIs are 
set up with the purpose of sending and receiving money and the type of payments 
theyre generally used for tends to be somewhat different to banks and building 
societies. Often, the payments will be for larger sums. Where theres no previous 
account history, what should reasonably strike Wise as concerning for a first payment 
isnt down solely to the transaction amount involved. I havent seen any other factors 
at play here such that, in my view, Wise ought to have been concerned and ought to 
have intervened and questioned Mr B before executing his authorised instructions. 
Purchasing cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. 
In the circumstances of this case, the provision of a warning about scams in general 
would have been a sufficient step for Wise to take when Mr B authorised the £5,000 
payment. We know that no such warning was provided at the time. But as the 
investigator has explained, and I agree, the provision of a general scam warning is 
unlikely to have stopped Mr B in his tracks. 
Having reviewed the available information, Im not convinced that a warning of that 
nature would have led to a different outcome. At the time of reporting the scam to 
Wise, Mr B explained that his financial advisor (the scammer) was giving instructions 
and assisting him with the payments. So, even if Wise had provided a general scam 
warning as I think it should have, and Mr B had reviewed it, Im more persuaded that 
the scammers reassurances would have outweighed the warning and he would have 
still gone ahead with the payment. 
Ive also thought about whether Wise could have done more to recover the funds 
after it became aware of the situation, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered. Mr Bs payments went to a cryptocurrency exchange. He wouldnt be able 
to make a successful chargeback claim in the circumstances because the merchant 
he paid did provide the service requested (i.e., conversion of fiat money into 
cryptocurrency). So, I dont think Wise was under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback dispute for Mr B. I understand that it tried to recall the funds but was 
unsuccessful.
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr B. I fully 
acknowledge that hes lost a significant amount of money. But having considered the matter 
very carefully, for the reasons given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Wise responsible for his 
loss.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman