DRN-1626496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) unfairly 
cancelled their car insurance policy and incorrectly applied cancellation charges. 
 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr B. 
What happened
Mr B applied online for a car insurance policy with Brightside on 29 May 2019. Mrs B was 
the main policyholder, with Mr B as a named driver. Mr B paid for additional benefits  legal 
cover, key cover and excess protection  to be added to the policy. The policy started on 
21 June 2019. 
Brightside sent a confirmation email and letter to Mr B on 29 May 2019 and asked for further 
documentation to validate the policy. The further documentation needed was an eight-digit 
unused and recent check code from the MyLicence website, so that checks with the DVLA 
could be made, as well as proof of Mr Bs no claims discount. 
Brightside sent a text message to Mr B on 30 May 2019, reminding him that it needed the 
further documentation mentioned in the previous correspondence. Brightside also sent an 
email at the same time, with broadly the same message.  
Brightside said it sent a further reminder text on 1 June 2019 and letters on 3 June 2019 and 
4 June 2019. This correspondence indicated the documents needed to be provided to 
Brightside by 14 July 2019 to prevent the cancellation of the policy. 
Mr B uploaded one of the requested copies of the MyLicence check codes on 11 June 2019. 
Brightside then sent a further email on 13 June 2019 saying it still needed a copy of the code 
by 14 July 2019. 
Brightside sent an email to Mr B on 8 July 2019 reminding him that it hadnt received the 
documents it needed to confirm the car insurance policy. It said Mr B needed to send these 
by 15 July 2019. 
Brightside tried to phone Mr B during business hours on 15 July 2019 to discuss the 
documents that hadnt yet been provided. It was unable to get through or leave a message. 
It then cancelled the policy on 15 July 2019 and wrote to Mr B confirming this. Brightside 
said the cancellation resulted in an outstanding balance of £152.36, which needed to be paid 
within the following seven days. It said the balance included a £60 cancellation fee.  
 
Mr B uploaded the documents to Brightsides website on the night of 15 July 2019, after he 
had been notified of the policy cancellation. 
Mr B contacted Brightside by phone the following day and was told it couldnt reinstate the 
cancelled policy, but it could waive the £60 cancellation fee if he took out a new policy with it. 
Mr B said he would take out a new policy, but wanted the fees that had been added since 
the cancellation to be offset against the cost of the new policy. Brightside didnt agree to do 
this. Mr B was informed that if payment of the outstanding balance was not received within 
30 days, it could be passed onto a collection agency. 
Mr B was unhappy that the policy had been cancelled and fees had been applied and he 
complained to Brightside. He said the reminders sent to him indicated a date of 15 July 2019 
but didnt indicate a specific time on that date when the documents needed to be uploaded.
 
Brightside responded to Mr Bs complaint and partially upheld it. It said the correspondence 
sent to Mr B asking him for the documents should have included its office hours, as it would 
expect to receive the documents during and not after office hours. Brightside said it was 
willing to waive the £60 cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill and so the outstanding 
balance was £92.36.
Brightside also said its terms and conditions detail administration charges that might be 
applied for arranging, amending and administering insurance policies. And the additional 
charges had been fairly applied and the policy cancelled, as Brightside said Mr B should 
have provided the information by 14 July 2019. 
Brightside said it checked Mr Bs DVLA MyLicence code and its aware he didnt disclose a 
motoring conviction from October 2018 when he applied for the policy. Brightside said it 
asked him at the application stage to disclose all motoring convictions within the last five 
years and as motoring convictions are a rating factor used by insurers to determine the 
insurance premium charged, this meant Mr B benefitted from a cheaper insurance rate since 
the start of the policy. 
Mr B was unhappy with Brightsides response and complained to this service. He said he 
was told by Brightside originally that he had until 14 July 2019 to upload the requested 
documents, but this was then changed by Brightside to 15 July 2019. And he said he 
uploaded the documents by this date and so the policy shouldnt have been cancelled. Mr B 
informed this service that he took out a policy with a different insurer following the 
cancellation. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She said it wasnt unreasonable for Mr B to think 
the deadline for submitting the documents had been extended to 15 July 2019. She said Mr 
B had the benefit of a cheaper insurance rate between 21 June 2019 and 14 July 2019, as 
he hadnt disclosed a motor conviction. So she asked Brightside to calculate what it would 
have charged Mr B for the policy during the period, had it known about the conviction. She 
said if this exceeded the amount already paid towards the policy then Mr B would need to 
pay the difference. But if the recalculated amount owed was less than the £68.22 already 
paid, then Brightside should refund the difference back to Mr B, with 8% simple interest.
 
Brightside responded and said it was unable to guess what the premium increase would 
have been if the conviction had been disclosed, as such a change would be presented to the 
insurer for them to rate. It said as a result its also not possible to pro-rata the increase as 
the conviction wasnt disclosed or sent to it before the policy was cancelled. 
Brightside said while additional optional insurances were purchased as part of this policy, 
these services are provided through external third parties. And it said the terms and 
conditions indicate consumers will not receive any refund for the cost of these optional extra 
policies, if they are cancelled after the cooling off period. 
As Brightside didnt agree with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint. 
I first of all want to clarify that Ive considered that Mr B failed to disclose a motoring 
conviction, but Brightside wasnt aware of this when it cancelled the policy and so it wasnt 
cancelled for this reason. And Brightside has indicated that if it had known about the 
conviction, it would have just applied a higher premium. So I intend to deal only with the 
question of whether Brightside acted fairly when it cancelled Mr Bs policy because of what it 
says was a failure to provide it with requested documentation by a particular date. 
Its clear from Brightsides terms and conditions that it is allowed to cancel a policy where a 
consumer has been asked to provide documentation and has failed to do so. But I dont think 
Brightside acted fairly, or in line with its own terms and conditions, when it cancelled Mr Bs 
policy on 15 July 2019. 
I say this because Ive seen the various emails, texts and letters sent by Brightside that first 
of all told Mr B he needed to provide the documentation by 14 July 2019. But the last email 
received by Mr B, and dated 8 July 2019, clearly listed the deadline as 15 July 2019. And I 
think that as this was the last email received by Mr B, it was reasonable for Mr B to assume 
that the deadline listed was the correct deadline. Im satisfied that a more recent piece of 
correspondence would fairly supersede an earlier one.
 
Brightside has suggested it listed this later date so that Mr B would have all day on 14 July 
2019 to provide the information. I dont find this argument persuasive. I think its fair to say 
that a reasonable consumer, which is the appropriate test here, would consider that they had 
until the actual date listed to provide information. They would have no reason to think the 
information should be provided a day earlier. 
I know that Brightside also said it wanted Mr B to submit the documents within office hours 
and so submitting these outside of office hours meant they couldnt be checked on 15 July 
2019. But if Brightside had wanted the documents submitted by a specific time then it should 
have listed that time on the correspondence sent to Mr B. Otherwise I think it was 
reasonable for Mr B to assume he could submit the documents at any point on that date. 
And I can see that Brightside said in its response to Mr Bs complaint that it should have 
listed its office hours as part of the deadline. 
So, given what Ive said above, Im satisfied that Mr B submitted the documents by the 
deadline imposed by Brightside. And, as such, Im satisfied that Brightside acted unfairly 
when it cancelled the policy on 15 July 2019 and imposed cancellation and other charges. 
So Ive considered what Brightside needs to do to put this right. 
Putting things right
Brightside has said Mr B owes it a total of £152.36, albeit that it offered to waive the £60 
cancellation fee when it responded to Mr Bs complaint. 
Im satisfied that if Brightside had known about Mr Bs motoring conviction when he applied 
for the policy, it would have fairly charged him a higher premium. This service has already 
asked Brightside to recalculate the premium Mr B would have paid if it had known about the 
motoring conviction, but it didnt do this. It said it would need to approach the insurer for this 
information. So Brightside needs to do that now. When it knows the amended premium, it 
should pro-rata this for the short period of time Mr B was provided with cover. When Brightside cancelled the policy it charged Mr B the full yearly cost of the additional 
benefits he purchased when he took out the policy. But I dont think its fair for Mr B to pay 
the full yearly cost, when he only had the benefit of the cover provided for a short period of 
time. I can see the terms and conditions say Brightside can charge the full amount if the 
policy is cancelled outside of the 14 working day cooling off period. However, Im satisfied 
that as Brightside unfairly cancelled the policy, any additional costs, including fees and 
charges that resulted directly from that cancellation should be removed from the amount that 
might be owed by Mr B. Im satisfied that its fair for Brightside to make a pro-rata charge for 
the additional benefits purchased by Mr B. 
If  after making the above calculations, and taking the amount already paid towards the 
policy by Mr B into account  Brightside owes monies to Mr B, then Brightside should refund 
that amount to Mr B, with 8% simple interest. If, on the other hand, its shown that Mr B owes 
monies to Brightside then Brightside can ask Mr B to pay this in the usual way. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. In order to put things right, I require 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited to undertake the actions Ive outlined under the 
putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman