DRN-4339584
The complaint
Mr M complains about three lending decisions PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender 
made. He says he couldnt afford the loans at the time, and they shouldnt have been lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr Lender lent Mr M three instalment loans, from the information provided, the loan details 
were as follows.
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount (£) TermHighest 
repayment 
(£)                     End date
1 07/12/2018 200 3 months 133.86 13/02/2019
2 19/03/2019 500 6 months 203.33 11/04/2019
3 06/06/2019 1,000 12 months 203.33 sold
When Mr M complained to Mr Lender, it said it didnt lend irresponsibly but as a gesture of 
goodwill, it offered to remove interest from loan 3 so that Mr M only repaid the capital. It also 
offered to remove all three loans from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M didnt accept the offer and referred the complaint to this service where it was looked at 
by one of our adjudicators. She thought Mr Lender wasnt wrong to lend loans 1 and 2 and 
that its offer of redress for loan 3 was in line with what the Financial Ombudsman would 
have done had it upheld Mr Ms complaint about loan 3.
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision, he said a proper look at his credit file would have 
shown he was indebted, and Mr Lender shouldnt have lent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans without the need to borrow further or suffering adverse financial 
circumstances. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Mr Lender asked Mr M about his monthly income and living costs, it also searched his credit 
file. Mr M declared £1,450 for his income and a total of £825 for his expenses, this included 
his credit commitments. Mr M was living at home with his parents at the time of the loans 
which explains why the cost of his housing was £100.
The information Mr M declared above was what he declared for all his loans. For each loan, 
I can see Mr Lender searched Mr Ms credit file. Mr M has said had Mr Lender properly 
checks his file, it would have seen he was taking out payday loans. However, the results of 
the search Mr Lender provided for both loans 1 and 2 showed Mr M didnt have any 
outstanding payday loans when it lent. The credit search also showed Mr M didnt have any 
defaults or county court judgements (CCJs).
Mr Lender was required to carry out reasonable checks in the circumstances of the lending, 
it wasnt required to carry out a credit search or if it did, it wasnt required to carry it out to 
any specific level of detail. In the circumstances of this case, considering Mr Ms income, the 
highest repayment amount, and the stage of the lending relationship, I think Mr Lenders 
checks went far enough. Those checks showed Mr M could afford the repayments of loans 1 
and 2 and so I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to lend those loans.
Mr Lender has agreed to redress Mr M for agreeing to lend him loan 3, it has offered to 
remove interest and charges ensuring Mr M only repays the capital borrowed and has 
offered to remove the loans from Mr Ms credit file. I think the offer is fair in the 
circumstances. Mr M should contact Mr Lender directly if he wishes to accept its offer on 
loan 3.
Theres likely to be an outstanding balance on the account after Mr Lender has removed 
interest from loan 3, Id remind it of its duty to treat Mr M positively, working with him to 
agree a suitable repayment plan. 
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman