DRN-2770161
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide him with a cash 
refund, after cancelling his travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 10 February 2020, Mr P purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided 
him with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional cover for Mr 
Ps trip, including post- departure cover, with Mr P going on holiday from 1 June 2020 to 8 
June 2020. Mr P paid £27.75 for the policy, after a discount of £6.94 was applied. 
Mr P has explained that his holiday was cancelled, and so he contacted Great Lakes on 19 
May 2020, to cancel his insurance policy, and obtain a refund for this.
Great Lakes cancelled Mr Ps insurance policy but didnt agree to provide Mr P with any 
cash refund for the policy. Mr P didnt think this was fair, so raised a complaint about how the 
matter had been handled.
Great Lakes looked into Mr Ps concerns and said it wouldnt be providing him with a cash 
refund for the policy. It noted that Mr P had benefitted from cover under his policy from its 
start date on 10 February 2020. And, it highlighted that the terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
policy said that no refund would be provided, if the 14 day cooling-off period had elapsed 
when the policy was cancelled.
Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer the following;
The opportunity for Mr P to move his single trip date to within 18 months of the 
original policy purchase date, compared to 13, for free  if the duration or destination 
of the holiday was the same. And, if the original policy date had not already expired.
A pro-rata credit voucher, valid for 36 months, which could be used against a new 
policy. But, if the value of the voucher would equate to under £10, it would offer a 
credit voucher giving a 20% discount off of the next Great Lakes policy, instead of the 
monetary amount.
In Mr Ps case, it said the value of the credit voucher would have been under £10. So, it 
offered him the 20% discount voucher, valid for 36 months, which could be used against a 
new policy. 
Mr P didnt accept either option and didnt feel this offer was fair. Mr P said there was no 
certainty around him wanting to travel in the future, or around his own health. And as such, 
the right thing to do would be to provide him with a cash refund, for the total cost of the 
policy - £27.75. 
As Mr P remained dissatisfied with Great Lakes, he referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 10 February 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mr Ps 
holiday was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr P with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based on the 
remaining premium when Mr Ps holiday was cancelled, until the end date of the policy on 8 
June 2020.
The investigator noted that Mr P hadnt been able to provide information or evidence to show 
when their holiday was actually cancelled. And so, she felt it was fairest to take the date Mr 
P called Great Lakes, on 19 May 2020, as the most likely date from which it was known the 
holiday would no longer go ahead, and therefore there was nothing for Great Lakes to insure 
from that point. 
Having looked at the time there was nothing to insure  from 19 May 2020, until 8 June 
2020, as well as information to show any refund to Mr P would be under £10, our 
investigator considered the offer of a credit voucher providing 20% discount off a new policy 
was fair. She said this offer was more advantageous to Mr P, given the discount Great Lakes 
had provided when the policy was purchased meant that Mr P would actually owe money to 
Great Lakes.  
Our investigator also clarified that this 20% discount voucher was valid for 36 months, from 
the point of policy cancellation. And could be used against a new single trip, or annual multi-
trip insurance policy. Mr P could also transfer this discount voucher to a friend or a relative 
as a gift, if he would rather do this. And our investigator considered this fair.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He still felt that Great Lakes should be 
providing a cash refund for the total cost of the policy.  
Because Mr P remained dissatisfied, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr P.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr P wanted to 
cancel his insurance policy. But I dont think the reasons for cancelling the policy reasonably 
fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this because I dont 
think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The examples of 
exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or changes in the 
policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mr P was covered from the date he purchased his policy, until his holiday was cancelled, for 
any cancellation claim he needed to make. As Great Lakes were on risk for any potential 
claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that Mr P pays for Great Lakes 
acceptance of this risk. And that means the full sum of the policy wouldnt be refundable to 
Mr P.
Mr P didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of his holiday. Instead he called Great 
Lakes on 19 May 2020, to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, given his holiday 
was cancelled around this time. Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure 
from this point, and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer to now 
provide a pro-rata refund, from the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It means Great 
Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there is nothing left to cover.  
I agree with our investigator that the fairest date to use for the date of the holiday 
cancellation is 19 May 2020, when Mr P called to cancel his policy. Mr P hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence that the holiday was cancelled before this date. And it makes sense 
that Mr P would call their travel insurer, at the time of learning his holiday was cancelled. 
Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy, the 21 days from 19 
May 2020 to 8 June 2020, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. Great Lakes has calculated what the value of the pro-rata voucher would be for Mr P, based 
on the fact there was 21 days of unused cover. And, shown that there would actually be no 
refund due to him for the time left on the policy.  
This is because Great Lakes splits the cost of the policy over its whole term, rather than 
attributing different costs to pre-travel and post-departure cover. This means that for the 
remaining 21 days of the policy, Mr Ps cover cost under £10. And, because Mr P received a 
discount of £6.94 when purchasing the policy, and the cost of the remaining term was less 
than that amount, there was nothing of the premium left. 
Its important to note Great Lakes is entitled to decide how to set and calculate the premium 
over the policy term  as long as it treats its customers fairly. And, Im satisfied that Great 
Lakes hasnt treated Mr P differently, and therefore unfairly, in the above way it has set and 
calculated the premium. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied that the offer to provide Mr P with a 20% discount voucher, for 
use off his next policy, if used within 36 months of the original policy cancellation is fair. This 
is because the discount voucher is more advantageous to Mr P than a pro-rata credit 
voucher. Mr P was also offered the option to move his holiday dates, and make use of the 
remaining cover that way, but decided not to choose this option, which isnt something I can 
hold Great Lakes accountable for.
Lastly, I dont think the above terms of the discount voucher Great Lakes offered Mr P is 
unreasonably restrictive. It does provide Mr P with a number of options, including the ability 
to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone else. And it 
does allow Mr P the option to take the holiday at a later date. And, whilst I appreciate Mr Ps 
concerns about him wanting to travel in the future, or his own health, I have to bear in mind 
Mr P was willing to travel previously, despite his circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes doesnt need to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman