DRN-3109731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the increase in the price of The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) home insurance policy at their 2020 annual 
renewal.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out home insurance with NFU in 2017; the annual premium was 
£1,458.08. Their premium increased incrementally through to the 2019 renewal when it was 
charged at £1,544.48. On receiving their 2020 renewal pack from NFU though they were 
surprised to see that the cost of their annual policy had increased to £2,946.07.
Mr and Mrs W complained to NFU about the increase and they asked what had caused it. 
NFU told Mr and Mrs W that its underwriter had assessed the risk of surface water flooding 
to be high. Mr and Mrs W approached their local county council and the Environment 
Agency and were told that their property wasnt in a flood risk area. 
NFU looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and there were numerous phone calls and 
emails between both. NFU explained to Mr and Mrs W that they relied on the data provided 
to it by a specific flood risk assessment company in order to determine the risk of flood to the 
properties it insured. NFU said that the data indicated a higher risk of flooding to their 
property than in previous years and that the premium had been increased to reflect that fact. 
NFU said it understood that the increase in premium was significant but was satisfied that 
itd been calculated correctly. 
Mr and Mrs W said they were going to engage the services of their own flood risk assessor 
and that NFUs assessor had got it wrong and should reassess their specific property. They 
said they couldnt accept that the flood risk had just changed. NFU looked at their complaint 
again and said that it was unable to uphold it. It said the key fact that had changed was the 
information on which it based its rating of flood risk to their property. It said its assessor had 
concluded that their property was at significant risk of flooding and, whilst this wasnt the sole 
factor for the increase in their premium it was the most significant compared to previous 
years. 
NFU also explained that due to the age of Mr and Mrs Ws property, it was unable to cede 
the risk to the national flood reinsurance scheme, Flood Re. 
Mr and Mrs W continued to contest NFUs explanation. They thought they should have the 
right to challenge the data NFU was relying on and they produced a report theyd 
commissioned from their own flood risk assessor. NFU said that whilst it understood they 
would like to use their own data, it hoped they would understand that it wouldnt be fair to its 
other customers if it based premium calculations on a variety of sources. It said itd referred 
their report to underwriters but was unable to disregard the data provided by its own source. 
Mr and Mrs W escalated their claim to a senior executive at NFU. They said they still wanted 
to know what specific factors led to a near doubling of their premium and why. They said 
they couldnt understand what had happened because nothing had changed. NFU issued a 
third final response letter to their complaint was issued in March 2021. NFU said it had 
addressed Mr and Mrs Ws concerns previously and had conducted separate investigations 
into them with its underwriters. So it said it was satisfied its previous responses to Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint were correct. NFU explained that the data it based its risk assessments 
on was commercially sensitive so it was unable to share it with Mr and Mrs W. But it said 
based on the data, and its interpretation of the risk presented, it set its price accordingly; it 
said on this basis it was satisfied that the correct premium had been charged. 
Unhappy with the outcome of NFUs investigation, Mr and Mrs W complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt think NFU had treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably, so she didnt recommend that their complaint was upheld. Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with our investigators findings so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that having their premium increase so significantly when thered been no 
cause to claim on their policy mustve appeared to Mr and Mrs W to have been very unfair. 
But the risk of insuring their home is NFUs to take on so it has to decide how to assess it 
and itll charge a price accordingly. And each year NFU is entitled to reassess its risk factors 
(and the data it obtains) when setting the price of its policies. So prices can go down as well 
as up depending on how NFU reassesses the risks that year for all its customers. This 
service looks at whats caused the insurers view on risk to change  and whether thats the 
same for all of its customers  to see whether we think the premium has been charged fairly.
We wont normally say whether a product represents good value for money. And we 
generally accept that insurers can charge what they like for insurance so long as they act 
fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should apply their chosen pricing model 
consistently provided the consumer has flexibility to shop around and change insurer if they 
wish. Im satisfied thats the case here. Ive looked at the information that NFU has provided 
and Im satisfied that it has treated Mr and Mrs W fairly in the way its priced their policy. And 
I can see that after a further price rise at their 2021 renewal they did indeed shop around 
and obtained an alternative policy at a fraction of the cost of the one they were offered by 
NFU. That they were able to do so doesnt make the price they were offered by NFU unfair. 
We asked NFU to explain why Mr and Mrs Ws premium increased and, during the course of 
our investigation it has provided us with some confidential information which Ive been able 
to consider as part of their complaint. Im unable to share that information with them because 
its business sensitive but Id like to reassure them that Ive checked it very carefully and, 
having done so, I can see that NFU has applied its pricing model to their policy in the same 
way as it would to any of its other customers. So I dont think theyve been singled out in 
anyway. 
I can see that the principal reason their premium increased was because NFU now 
assessed the risk of surface water flooding to their property to be high. I appreciate that Mr 
and Mrs W think that NFU should assess the specific risk of their property flooding and take 
into account the conclusions their own flood assessor reached. But, as Ive said above, the 
risk is NFUs to take on and to decide what it needs to charge to do so. How it gathers, 
analyses and assesses information about risk is up to NFU in the same way it would be to 
any other insurer.I note that Mr and Mrs W considered that, at times, they were waiting too long for a response 
to their queries from NFU but I can see that NFU issued its final response letter to them on 
8 October 2020 (following their complaint in August 2020) and that its position didnt change 
through to the last final response letter it issued at the end of March 2021. I can see that the 
second and third letters NFU issued were responses to Mr and Mrs Ws persistence about 
their complaint and that it did take steps throughout this time to investigate their complaint 
fully with its underwriters. So I dont consider NFU caused them any unreasonable delays. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, it follows that, whilst I accept my decision will 
come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, I cant fairly or reasonably uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman