DRN-3268180
The complaint
Miss S complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Shelby approved for Miss S a £4,000 loan on 21 April 2021, repayable at £186.65 each 
month for 48 months. It was repaid in September 2021 and Miss S has explained that was 
because her mother obtained a loan at a better rate and so Miss S now owes her mother. 
One of our adjudicators thought that a full financial review ought to have been carried out 
before lending. Having done that, she thought that Shelby would have seen her extensive 
gambling and so not lent to her. 
Shelby has said that it carried out proportionate checks. The credit search it did would not 
have prompted it to have obtained and reviewed bank statements. And, Miss S may have 
provided bank statements for an account not showing gambling transactions and so it would 
have been none the wiser. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Shelby completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Shelby did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss S and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Shelby to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss S ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Shelby had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss S. In 
practice this meant that Shelby had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Miss S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Shelby to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
This has been difficult to decide as I can see that Shelby had carried out checks and had 
used the information it had obtained to increase the figures it had for Miss S and her 
expenditure. In its submission to us before the complaint was passed to me Shelby has said: 
Miss S stated her total monthly expenses were £532.00. Upon reviewing her credit 
file and using data from ONS we increased this to £925.00, plus our repayment 
amount would be £1,111.65 a month, the monthly income declared was £2020, this 
would leave [Miss S] with £908.35 a month after all her priority bills and living costs 
had been taken in to account.  ONS refers to Office for National Statistics. 
However, this was a large loan and over a significant period of four years. So, I would have 
expected that a full and financial review of all of Miss S circumstances to have been carried 
out. And not necessarily a full review only if the credit search results revealed an issue which 
is what Shelby may be suggesting. And although Miss S had said to Shelby that the loan 
was for a car purchase, Ive not seen anything which indicates that Shelby checked that. 
That full review could have included obtaining copy payslips to verify income and reviewing 
copy utility bills and all outstanding HP and other regular credit commitment agreements. 
Even if Shelby did not do that, another way, and often more convenient method, to review a 
persons financial situation, was to ask for and review in detail a persons copy bank 
statements. And this is a known method of carrying out checks on a new customer before 
lending  whether thats verifying an income or checking on expenditure. And so, I do not 
consider this to be an unusual approach. 
Shelby makes a point that it may have been the case that a customer could have delivered 
to it, if it had asked, copy bank statements for an account not showing the gambling. But if 
that had been the case, and a customer had had two or more bank accounts, often they 
show that transfers took place between the accounts. If they did show transfers then a 
thorough review would lead to asking about those other account(s). And if no transfers 
between accounts were shown then reviewing the one set offered to Shelby likely would have been a satisfactory full financial review. Plus, often credit searches show if individuals 
have more than one bank account. 
In any event, Shelbys conjecture on what a customer might have offered up to it if it had 
asked for copy bank statements is not a reason not to have done it as part of its checks if 
warranted.
Having reviewed the bank statements sent to us by Miss S, then in March 2021, I can see 
that Miss S received around £1,400 as a salary for that month and one other source of 
income which was work and child tax credits of £144 each week. That amounted to £2,024 a 
month and so Shelby had used the correct income figure. And the bank statements show 
shes repaying at least one high cost lender. 
Shelbys credit search results did show six defaults in the 36 months before the search was 
carried out in April 2021, some as recent as 2019 and 2020, and one had the outstanding 
balance on it of £565 for the month before in March 2021. 
I have seen the summary figures taken from the full credit search results. 
A note on the credit search results show that Shelby had calculated that the repayments to 
Shelby would be 17% of Miss S disposable income and yet Ive also seen that on the credit 
score it obtained, it said Max loan based on Risk Score £500. And it went on to note that 
the loan offer was based on the requested amount  a sum eight times larger than the Risk 
Score recommended sum of £500. 
As I have indicated earlier, this has not been an easy decision as I have seen the valid 
points made by both sides. The main element I have kept at the forefront of my mind is that 
the loan was to be repaid over four years at £186.65 a month. And so, Miss S was 
committed to Shelby for a long time and for significant repayments. And so, I do think that 
additional checks over and above the Office of National Statistics (ONS) figures and a credit 
check would have been proportionate and that would have been achieved, in my view, by 
doing a full financial review. 
And I do think that its likely that bank statements would have been a reasonable method to 
assist Shelby with its review, and if seen I think that the extensive gambling in Miss S 
transaction lists would have been seen by Shelby. And then I doubt it would have lent 
£4,000 to Miss S and committed her to four years of relatively high repayments. Miss S was, 
on some days, spending £250 on gaming transactions and carrying that out many times a 
month. 
So, I uphold Miss S complaint.   
Putting things right
Miss S has repaid the loan and so to put things right for this complaint, Shelby should do the 
following:
to add up the total amount of money Miss S received because of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)*remove any negative payment information recorded on Miss S credit file relating to 
loan.
*HMRC requires Shelby to take off tax from this interest and it should give Miss S a 
certificate showing how much it has taken off if Miss S asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint and direct that Shelby Finance Ltd, 
trading as Dot Dot Loans, does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman