DRN-4038637
The complaint
Mr H complains that Holiday Extras Cover Limited mis-sold him a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr H took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a cruise 
holiday he planned to take in May 2022. Mr H was planning to travel with his family.
Unfortunately, in January 2022, Mr Hs mother, with whom he planned to travel, was told she 
needed surgery. So the holiday had to be cancelled. Mr H made a cancellation claim on his 
policy. However, the policy underwriter turned down Mr Hs claim. Thats because it said Mr 
Hs mother had been suffering from a pre-existing medical condition when Mr H took out the 
policy, which was linked to the cause of the claim. Pre-existing medical conditions of third 
parties whom a policyholders trip depends on were specifically excluded by the terms of Mr 
Hs policy unless theyd been declared to and accepted by the insurer. Mr H hadnt told the 
insurer that his mother had been suffering with a leg condition, or that shed been referred to 
a consultant.
Mr H was unhappy with the way the policy had been sold to him. He didnt think that Holiday 
Extras had made the pre-existing medical condition exclusion clear enough when the policy 
was sold. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She considered that Holiday 
Extras had met its regulatory obligations at the point of sale and she didnt think the policy 
had been mis-sold to Mr H.
Mr H disagreed and Ive summarised his response to our investigator. He didnt think Holiday 
Extras had given him enough clear information about the cover the policy provided. He didnt 
think it highlighted that he needed to declare every single medical condition which affected 
both him and his parents. He didnt think the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
made clear what was meant by a pre-existing medical condition. Given the nature of his 
mothers medical condition at the point of policy purchase, he didnt feel the IPID led him to 
investigate the policy further regarding pre-existing conditions. He wasnt persuaded the 
definition of a pre-existing condition was in line with how a reasonable person would define 
it. He considered that the IPID wording should be amended so that it could be made clearer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I dont think Holiday Extras has treated 
him unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear the parameters of this decision. I will only be considering 
whether Holiday Extras mis-sold this policy to Mr H. I wont be looking at whether it was fair 
for the insurer to turn down this claim. A complaint about the policy underwriter has been 
considered separately by this service.
I should also make it clear that Holiday Extras isnt responsible for the wording of the policy, 
or for the way that the phrase pre-existing medical conditions is defined. The policy 
underwriter is responsible for the drafting of the contract terms. 
Its common ground that Mr H took out his travel insurance policy online, without advice or a 
recommendation. This means that Holiday Extras didnt need to check whether it was 
suitable for him. But it did need to give him enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy so that he could decide whether it was right for him.
Policy terms which exclude a policyholders pre-existing medical conditions are a significant 
restriction on cover. Therefore, generally, Id expect a policy seller to highlight terms 
excluding a policyholders own medical conditions at the point of sale.
Ive first considered the online sales journey Holiday Extras says Mr H wouldve seen when 
he took out the policy. This included questions about Mr Hs own health to allow Holiday 
Extras to provide Mr H with appropriate policy options. This section was called Just to check 
weve got you covered. I think then that Holiday Extras did enough to highlight to Mr H that 
medical conditions could impact upon cover.
It seems that Mr H wasnt asked about the health of non-travelling relatives and Ive thought 
about this. But most, if not all, travel insurers exclude claims caused by the pre-existing 
medical conditions of non-travelling relatives. In my experience of policies of this nature, the 
conditions of non-travelling relatives are often excluded as standard, without undertaking any 
medical screening. So even if Holiday Extras had asked questions about Mr Hs relatives 
health or highlighted the need to declare their pre-existing conditions, Im not persuaded hed 
likely have been able to find a policy which wouldve covered his mothers condition as 
standard. Or which provided the cover he says he intended to buy.
The important declaration section clearly states that theres no cover if a policyholder is 
aware of any circumstances which may lead to a claim. And it also states underneath that 
the policy isnt suitable if a policyholder is aware that the health of a close relative is likely to 
deteriorate.  I think the totality of the sales process does indicate that cover, particularly for 
health-related claims; may be restricted and that the policy wording and IPID needed to be 
read too.
Once a sale has completed, Holiday Extras is obliged to send a policyholder copies of the 
relevant underwriters insurance policy documentation in good time, so that the policyholder 
can check the cover is right for them. Holiday Extras said it issued the policy documents 
promptly and Mr H seems to accept that he received them. Hes also referred to looking at 
the IPID. I note that the IPID includes a section called What is not insured? And relevant 
restrictions are listed immediately underneath. The second uninsured event listed is pre-
existing medical conditions unless agreed. And the fourth event listed is that the policy 
includes restrictions regarding the health of close relatives who travel may depend on, even 
if theyre not insured by the policy. A fuller explanation of the relevant health exclusions was 
set out in the policy terms. 
I think the policy information Holiday Extras sent to Mr H made it sufficiently clear that pre-
existing conditions were excluded unless theyd been declared to the insurer and that there 
were also restrictions on the health of non-travelling relatives. So it was open to Mr H check 
the full policy wording related to medical conditions and to get in touch with the insurer, or 
with Holiday Extras, if he had any questions about the policy. It was also open to him to cancel the policy within the 14-day cooling-off period if he didnt think it was right for him.
Overall, based on all Ive seen, I think Holiday Extras gave Mr H enough clear, fair and not 
misleading about the policy cover to allow him to decide if it was right for him. So I find it met 
its regulatory obligations. I sympathise with Mr Hs position, as I appreciate hes been left 
significantly out of pocket and hes been through an upsetting time. But I dont think Holiday 
Extras mis-sold this policy to him. It follows that Im not directing it to do anything more or 
pay any redress.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman