DRN-4041147
The complaint
Mr E has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurance (UKI) 
unfairly declined a claim for storm damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E contacted UKI to make a claim for storm damage when a garden wall was damaged at 
his home. UKI assessed the damage and declined the claim, as its surveyor found that the 
damage was the result of poor installation/ design. 
When Mr E complained, UKI maintained its decision to decline the claim. However, it offered 
£100 compensation for some communication issues. So, Mr E complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was reasonable for UKI to decline 
the claim based on its surveyors findings and that the £100 compensation was appropriate.
As Mr E didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time the damage was reported. I noted that 
the closest weather station didnt show storm strength winds around that time. However, 
checking other weather stations a similar distance from the address, these showed 
windspeeds that would be considered storm strength. I also think that a storm could damage 
a wall. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, on the main cause of the damage. UKI sent a 
surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyors report said:
On inspection of the double skin boundary wall, it was noted that a central section of the 
wall has been pulled over as a result of the very sturdy fence panels acting as a sail during 
the spell of poor weather experienced in the area, and placing extra load and pressures on 
the wall that it was not designed to endure.
If the wall had not had these panels fitted the wall would still be in place as it was a well 
constructed wall with plenty of expansion joints along its length.
The Surveyor has advised the Policyholder that he needs to remove the remaining
panels off the brick wall as this could also be pulled over.

Considering all the evidence available on survey it is our considered opinion that the 
damage claimed has been as the result of poor installation/design.
Im aware Mr E doesnt agree with UKIs findings and Ive considered all his reasons for this, 
even if I dont comment on them here. I consider it reasonable for an insurer to rely on its 
experts evidence. I also havent seen any expert evidence from Mr E to show that UKIs 
conclusion was unfair. Im aware Mr E has said the construction didnt breach building 
regulations and that the property was compliant at the time it was built. 
Mr E also said if it wasnt for the storm that the wall would still be standing. However, I note 
this is different to what UKIs surveyor said, which is that if it wasnt for the fence panels, the 
wall would still have been standing, despite the storm. The inclusion of the fence panels was 
part of the design of the wall. The policy listed general exclusions and said it didnt cover 
faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on its experts findings that the main cause of the 
damage was due to poor installation or design and for it not to cover the claim. 
Im also aware that UKI offered Mr E £100 compensation for communication issues with the 
claim. In the circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
Having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman