DRN-3424943
The complaint
Mr A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited Red Sands unfairly 
declined a claim under his Cycle Insurance policy following the theft of his sons bike. 
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties and largely not in dispute, so 
Ill only summarise them here.
In April 2021 Mr A made a claim following the theft of his sons bike.
Red Sands declined the claim as Mr As son doesnt reside with Mr A, and says the policy 
only covers members of the family who reside at the same address.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained to Red Sands. He pointed out that when he 
took out the policy some years earlier, when his son lived at home, the definition of family 
didnt specify where the family resided.
Red Sands say the definition of family changed in 2019, and this was communicated in the 
2019 renewal documents. 
Mr A says the change to definition of family wasnt drawn to his attention clearly. And when 
his son moved out from living at home he had no idea his son would have needed to advise 
Red Sands of a change of address.
In its final response Red Sands said it had issued a Notice to Policyholders along with the 
policy wording and an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) prior to renewal in 
2019 and 2020, prior to the claim being made. And these documents allowed Mr A to assess 
any changes being made to ensure the policy still met his requirements. It added his sons 
bike shouldve been removed from Mr As account and insured as a separate entity by his 
son.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She felt Red Sands had applied the policy 
terms fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. And it had done enough to confirm the 
changes to the policy and where more information was located.
Mr A remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute the bike was stolen, and no dispute that Mr As son no longer resides 
with Mr A. The issue I have to decide is whether Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim.
Its important to note that like many insurance policies the Cycle Insurance Mr A took out to 
cover his sons bike is an annually renewable policy. And its not uncommon for changes to 
be made to the policy terms and conditions at each renewal. Given Mr As professional 
experience Im confident Mr A appreciates this already.
I can see that prior to Mr A renewing the policy in 2019 he was provided with information 
about key changes to the policy since the last renewal. This included a bullet point saying:-
Cover for anyone using the bicycle with the policyholders permission is now restricted to 
family members only. 
Before this bullet point it stated:-
The purpose of this notice is to inform you of any key changes that have been made to 
our cycle insurance policy since you last purchased it. It is just an overview so please 
read the full policy wording for complete cover terms. 
The policy wording supplied as part of the 2019 renewal process defines family as:-
Family means parents, spouse, partner, son, daughter or siblings (aged 16 years or 
over) residing at the same address 
At the 2020 renewal it changed the age limits to aged 18 years or over, again setting out 
they must be residing at the same address.
Whilst I have some sympathy with Mr As point that his son was and is a member of his 
family, I have to consider how the policy defines family. And I find the definition of family is 
clear.  
On balance, in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that Red Sands has taken 
reasonable steps to draw the policy terms to Mr As attention. I find it clear that the notice 
was only intended as an overview, Mr A was directed to read the policy wording and had the 
opportunity to check the cover being offered. 
 
Mr As son no longer resides with the family, and his moving out of the family home is a 
significant event. Its not unreasonable for him to expect to make his own arrangements for 
any insurances he feels necessary to protect his possessions.
Ive considered if Red Sands should refund premiums paid from the date Mr As son moved 
into his own property. However, Im mindful that the policy continued to provide cover for Mr 
A and other members of his family to use the bike. And the policy provides cover for other 
perils, not just theft. So Im satisfied Red Sands has continued to provide insurance and has 
been on risk.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman