DRN-1541062
The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S had three loans with Mr Lender, as I've summarised below.
Loan 
no. Amount Start date End date
1 £300 12/02/2018 24/08/2018
2 £200 16/09/2018 26/11/2018
3 £410 03/12/2018 26/03/2019
An adjudicator considered Mr S's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mr S, Mr Lender asked him to provide some information about his income 
and expenditure. For each loan Mr S said his net monthly income was £3,600 and his total 
declared monthly expenditure was in the region of £2,000. I've noted that Mr S didn't declare 
any mortgage/rent commitments. But Mr Lender says Mr S declared he was living with this 
parents, so that isn't necessarily unusual.
Mr Lender also carried out credit checks - but these seem to have been narrow in their 
scope and only essentially told Mr Lender that Mr S wasn't insolvent. This is within the rules 
generally and in my view was also proportionate bearing in mind Mr S's declared income 
and expenditure and the short nature of the lending relationship between Mr Lender and
Mr S.
I can appreciate Mr S's point that Mr Lender ought to have seen from his other loans that its 
loans were unaffordable for him. But Mr Lender didn't have that information and seems to 
have largely relied on the information provided by Mr S. I don't think that was unfair given all 
the circumstances in this complaint.For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr S's complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against PDL Finance Limited . 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman