DRN-3324314
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has started to charge her a monthly fee for her 
packaged bank account (PBA) when originally it had said the monthly fee would be waived 
as long she maintained a certain minimum balance.
What happened
Mrs B had had a bank account with Lloyds for very many years. From 2001, was a Platinum 
account. The main benefits of this PBA were worldwide travel insurance, AA breakdown 
cover (with roadside assistance, Home Start, Relay and accident management), and mobile 
phone insurance. In 2001 the account cost £12 each month, but this fee was waived if your 
account balance didnt go below £3,500. By 2021, the monthly charge was £21.
In June 2021 Lloyds wrote to Mrs B to say that it was ending the fee waiver in September 
2021, and so she would be subject to the £21 per month charge if she continued with the 
packaged account. Mrs B complained about this, saying she should be able to continue with 
the previous fee waiver. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the case and said they thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs B didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont have a copy of the terms and conditions that applied when Mrs B first opened her 
account with Lloyds several decades ago. But I think it highly likely that Lloyds would, 
when agreeing to open the account, have said that it reserved the right to change the 
features and costs of the account, or to close it down. This has been a standard feature of 
banking terms and conditions for a very long time  and Lloyds has shown us that the 
current terms and conditions also include the right to change the terms of the account.
I dont think it likely that Lloyds promised to keep this feature of the account available 
forever. And Im satisfied that Lloyds has the contractual right to vary the terms in the way 
it has; I also dont see any regulatory restriction on the way it has done this. 
Mrs B says the ending of the fee waiver is unreasonable, even if the written contract 
allows it, and so should not be permitted to continue. I dont agree. I think it is reasonable 
for Lloyds to be able to change these features of its account.  
Its reasonable for Lloyds, like any commercial organisation, to be able to change the 
price it charges for its services in this way. Up until the stopping of the fee waiver in 
September 2021, Mrs B had the choice of taking the package benefits, in return for 
keeping the minimum balance in her account. Each month she also had the choice of 
reducing the balance below the minimum and incurring the fee. So, the cost to Mrs B 
was the inability to use some of her money each month, in return for the benefits  and 
similarly Lloyds then gained the advantage of having that amount in its accounts. 
From September 2021 the monthly cost to Mrs B, and similar customers, changed. Mrs B 
then had to decide whether the new way of paying for the package benefits made it 
worthwhile for her. If not, she had the option of changing to a lower-free account or taking 
a fee-free account. 
I can understand it was disappointing for Mrs B, after enjoying these benefits for so long in 
return for keeping a minimum balance rather than paying an actual fee. But I dont agree 
that Lloyds has been unreasonable in changing the way it charges for the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman