DRN-3029200
complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2009. Mr T says St Andrews Insurance plc mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think St Andrews made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because Mr T didnt buy PPI at the time that he was arranging his 
loan during a meeting with the lender. Mr T was sold the PPI slightly later during a phone 
call with St Andrews. Therefore he would have known that the policy was not a condition 
of the lending.
St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And the evidence about Mr Ts circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr T was eligible for the 
cover and although he says he had existing means he still seems to have had a need for 
cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ts employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr T says he had a medical condition when the PPI 
was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for St Andrews to have recommended it. I say 
this because Mr T says that he had had asthma since 2006. However he has told us that 
he only ever missed a couple of days here and there as a result of it. So its unlikely his 
asthma would be a reason for Mr T needing to make a claim on the policy.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr T as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr T would have declined the 
cover had St Andrews done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr T would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant St Andrews should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means St Andrews doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman