DRN-4120307
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc, who Ill call Secure Trust.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I dont think Secure Trust have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Secure Trust, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr L. The car here had already 
completed around 90,500 miles and was more than seven years old. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a 
brand new car.
The relevant legislation gives consumers the short term right to reject goods if theyre of 
unsatisfactory quality when theyre received. But it explains that goods shouldnt be 
considered of unsatisfactory quality where a consumer examines the vehicle before buying it 
and should have noticed the fault. 
Ive considered the photographs in the independent inspectors report. I think the damage  
Mr L complained to Secure Trust about within the first 30 days, ought to have been obvious 
to him when he inspected the car before driving it away. I understand Mr L has explained 
that it was dark at the time, but I think the damage to the seat base would have been evident 
under the cars internal light, and the significant scratches and scrapes to several panels 
would be unlikely to be missed. I also note that the door mirror was significantly damaged, 
and I think Mr L would be likely to have noticed that. So, taking that into account, I think its 
likely that Mr L either accepted the car in that condition, or that the damage occurred 
subsequently. In either case it wouldnt be fair to suggest Secure Trust needed to repair it or 
to allow Mr L to reject the car on that basis.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to fix a fault that was present 
when a car is supplied. I cant see that Mr L reported the problems with engine noise until 
late March 2022, about 3 months after hed taken receipt of the car. In those circumstances 
the relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair the fault, and I think 
thats what Secure Trust have offered here, as theyve offered to repair the auxiliary drive 
belt problems the independent inspector identified in October 2022. 
I dont think Secure Trust need to do any more than that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman