DRN-4068717
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited has treated her unfairly by 
overcharging her on her mortgage.
What happened
In 2007 Mrs T took out a mortgage with Kensington for around £294,000. The mortgage was 
taken out on an interest only basis over 30 years. Mrs T agreed to an initial fixed interest rate 
of 7.42% until 31 May 2010. At which point the mortgage would revert to Kensingtons 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR) plus 2.54%. The SVR itself was guaranteed to be between 
1% and 3% above LIBOR  meaning that from 2010 Mrs T would pay a variable rate which 
would be at least 3.54%, but no more than 5.54%, above LIBOR.
Later that year arrears started to accrue on Mrs Ts mortgage account and in mid-2014 she 
decided to sell the property to avoid Kensington taking possession. In September 2014, 
Mrs T redeemed the mortgage and repaid Kensington around £382,379.
On 20 May 2020, Mrs T used the services of a representative to complain to Kensington on 
her behalf. The letter of complaint set out several reasons why it was thought that the level 
of interest charged on her past mortgage was unreasonable and that Mrs T seeks to claim 
the difference between the amount of interest she paid on her mortgage and the amount she 
ought to have paid on a more reasonable interest rate.
Kensington issued its final response letter on 24 June 2020. It said that it did not consent to 
our service considering the complaint, as it thought the complaint had been made too late. In 
any event it didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Kensington issued a further letter on 
11 September 2020 in response to the representatives rebuttal. Its position remained 
unchanged. 
Unhappy with Kensingtons response, Mrs Ts representative referred this complaint to our 
service in October 2020. Mrs T is no longer being represented in this case and has since 
told our service in her own words why she is feels she was charged an unfair level of interest 
on her mortgage and why she feels Kensington applied unfair fees and charges to her 
mortgage throughout its term. 
In summary she says that during the term of the mortgage she had health issues which 
impacted her ability to maintain the payments, and which caused her account to fall into 
arrears. She says that over the years she asked Kensington to give her a lower rate of 
interest, but it refused. She feels she was treated unfairly compared to other customers who 
were on a lower rate of interest. Mrs T is unhappy that when the property was sold she had 
to pay back considerably more than she had initially borrowed. 
Our investigator issued an assessment explaining the limitations to our jurisdiction, what this 
meant for Mrs T and then went on to set out his findings on the merits of the complaint. In 
summary, in relation to our jurisdiction he said: 
Any complaint about the fees and charges applied during the term of the mortgage 
had not been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R). Mrs T complained about this in 
2014 and had six months from the date of Kensingtons final response letter to refer 
the complaint to our service. Mrs T didnt raise this part of her complaint with our 
service until at least October 2020.
The complaint about the unfair interest rate charged was raised on 20 May 2020, so 
the investigator concluded that the complaint about all of the interest charging events 
that took place within six years prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be 
from 20 May 2014 onward. So, he was satisfied that he could consider whether the 
sums charged from 20 May 2014 onward were fair and reasonable.
He noted that under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint 
more than six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought 
within three years from the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint. The investigator explained 
why he thought Mrs T ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for 
complaint more than three years before making her complaint. So, he didnt think this 
part of the rule gave her any more time to complain.
The investigators findings went on to conclude:
The relevant index in relation to Mrs Ts mortgage was LIBOR. Mrs Ts mortgage 
contract did not commit to track the LIBOR rate, she was made sufficiently aware of 
the relevant terms and Kensington has sought to charge interest in accordance with 
those terms.
The reasons listed in the terms and conditions that allow Kensington to vary the 
interest rate are broad and open to interpretation. The investigator thought the terms 
allowing Kensington to vary the SVR were potentially unfair, in terms of a lack of 
transparency of when a particular term would be engaged and when Kensington can 
make changes to the SVR and by how much.
The investigator set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mrs T 
experienced because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. 
And the need to consider whether Kensington had exercised the terms in such a way 
that led to unfairness in the interest rate charged after 20 May 2014.
He found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allow borrowers flexibility. And the investigator was not 
persuaded Kensington varied the rate unfairly.
The investigator found that the SVR had varied multiple times throughout the life of 
the mortgage. The majority of these variances did not completely track the 
fluctuations in LIBOR. The investigator set out that this largely occurred during a time 
of significant change in the wider market as a result of the financial crisis. This 
impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected in changes to a 
number of lenders interest rates. As with most lenders, Kensingtons SVR reduced 
during the financial crisis, just not by as much as the reductions in LIBOR. So he 
didnt consider this to be atypical given what was happening in the wider market.
The investigator explained that Kensingtons customers, including Mrs T, have 
protection against extreme changes in cost of funds through a margin over LIBOR being capped for its SVR. From 2007 to 2014 the margin was reduced with 
customers benefiting from the effect of the cap.  
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that Kensington 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably, or that Mrs T has overpaid interest. 
Mrs T responded to say she did not agree with the outcome and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. In summary she said she disagreed that we could only consider 
part of her complaint and that she had asked Kensington for help, including obtaining a lower 
interest rate over several years during the term of her mortgage. She still feels shes been 
treated unfairly and that Kensington should refund her back some of the interest she been 
overcharged.
In response, the investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a 
final decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they 
would like the ombudsman to consider by 3 April 2023. Neither party made any further 
representations.
Because an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to decide and I issued a
decision on 9 June 2023 explaining why this service can only consider part of Mrs Ts 
complaint. My decision said that:
1. This service doesnt have the power to look into Mrs Ts complaint about the fees and 
charges applied to her mortgage over its term.
2. This service doesnt have the power to look into Mrs Ts complaint about the interest 
rate charged on her mortgage before May 2014.  
3. This service can look into the interest rate charged on Mrs Ts mortgage from 
May 2014 until its redemption in September 2014, taking into account the impact of 
earlier changes to the SVR before that time on the interest rate charged within that 
time as part of all the circumstances of the case.
I explained that because our investigator had already looked into part of Mrs Ts complaint 
and because she disagreed with that outcome, that I would go on to issue a final decision on 
the part of Mrs Ts complaint that has been made in time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Ts complaint, I am 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.  
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our
service.
 
When Mrs Ts representative complained to Kensington on her behalf, the complaint was 
made largely about the fairness of the contract terms and whether Kensington treated Mrs T 
unfairly in varying the SVR in the way that it did. Mrs T has since told our service that her complaint largely centres around being overcharged interest as a whole and being refused a 
lower interest rate by Kensington over the years. Ive considered all of these issues but I 
have largely focused my decision on the complaint as presented by Mrs T. 
Mrs Ts mortgage was taken out in 2007. Under the terms and conditions and the
mortgage offer, she had a fixed rate until 2010, after which the mortgage would revert to the
SVR with a premium of 2.54%. 
The mortgage offer says that its terms reflected past financial difficulty  this is what was, at
the time, known as a sub-prime mortgage. I dont have the details of Mrs Ts circumstances 
at the time, but this generally means that a borrower has experienced problems with either a 
previous mortgage or with unsecured credit which would make it difficult for her to get a 
more mainstream mortgage. As theres additional risk to a lender in granting a mortgage in 
such circumstances, its not unreasonable that the resulting mortgage is more expensive  
reflecting that extra risk. Its for those reasons that the mortgage reverted not just to the 
SVR, but to the SVR plus a premium of 2.54%.
Mrs T has said that shes been refused a lower rate of interest by Kensington over the years. 
As I set out in my previous decision, we can only consider the fairness of interest charged
since May 2014.
Mrs Ts mortgage didnt revert to the SVR until May 2010. The mortgage terms and 
conditions say that the SVR is a variable rate. But they also say that while the rate can vary, 
it will never be more than 3% above or less than 1% above the LIBOR rate  and so, with 
the addition of the 2.54% premium, Mrs Ts mortgage would never be more than 5.54% 
above LIBOR, and never be less than 3.54% above LIBOR. And I can see from the history of 
the mortgage that in fact the interest rate has in fact has stayed within that range.
So the mortgage offer says that the mortgage would revert to the SVR plus 2.54% from
2010, and this in fact happened. And the SVR has stayed within the range  relative to
LIBOR  set out in the terms and conditions. Neither the mortgage offer nor the mortgage
terms and conditions say that Kensington has to make another fixed rate available after the
initial one ended, or that it has to offer Mrs T any rate other than the SVR plus premium.
This means that Mrs Ts mortgage has operated as the contract said it would, on the terms
she agreed to when she borrowed the funds in 2007. And theres nothing beyond the 
mortgage terms which says Kensington has to offer new rates either  theres no law, or rule 
of mortgage regulation, which says that a lender has to offer new rates to existing 
customers.
During the period in question that this decision relates to, from May 2014 onwards, 
Kensington was not offering new rates to any existing customers. And did not start offering 
new rates again until 2017. As Ive said, it was not obliged to do so. Mrs T was not therefore 
being treated any differently to other Kensington customers. Her mortgage was operating as 
it should have done according to its terms and conditions. And therefore, I dont think 
Kensington treated her unfairly in the interest it charged her during this period. 
Before 2017, Kensington did not offer new interest rates to existing customers. An existing
customer whose introductory rate had expired and wanted a new rate would either have to
move lender, or would have to re-apply to Kensington as a new customer for a new
mortgage.
 
Ive thought about the fairness of this in the context of Mrs Ts case. By 2014 Mrs Ts 
account was heavily in arrears and already at litigation stage. There is no evidence to 
suggest Mrs T sought a new rate from Kensington during this time or that she tried to re-mortgage with a different lender. But in any event, when considering her circumstances at 
the time, I find it unlikely shed be approved for a new mortgage at the time or that it would 
be in her favour for Kensington to agree a new interest rate in the lead up to the property 
being sold. I say this because a new fixed interest rate would be subject to an early 
repayment charge if redeemed early. 
As such, Im unable to conclude that Mrs T was treated unfairly by Kensington in relation to 
accessing a lower interest rate from May 2014 onwards. 
That leads me to consider whether the SVR Mrs T was charged during this period was fair. 
Ive already set out the relevant terms of the mortgage. In particular the terms set out in 
Mrs Ts mortgage offer and those in relation to how the relevant LIBOR rate index operated. 
Im not satisfied that all the terms are sufficiently transparent. Clause 22.6 says We may 
change the Variable Rate at any time in our absolute discretion whenever we want (including 
before any Advance is released), provided that the changed rate is never less than 1% or 
more than 3% above LIBOR Rate. 
While grammatically easy to follow, the relevant term allowing for the SVR to be varied is 
very broad, providing seemingly unfettered discretion about when Kensington can make 
changes to the SVR and by how much (subject to the margin restrictions). 
 
I think this clause is wider than reasonably necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose and is 
so subjective that it does not explain to the consumer when a change may be made or the 
method for determining the new price. In my opinion it would be difficult for a customer to 
understand the basis and the mechanics for any decisions taken that relied on this term, to 
be able to understand the economic consequences of entering into the agreement and, if 
necessary, to challenge a variation made in reliance on it. That means that theres a real 
possibility a court would consider this to be an unfair term within the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulations, which is relevant law for me to take into account.
Even though I consider that there is a reasonable basis to conclude that the variation terms 
are overly broad and do not explain adequately the mechanism for determining the new 
price, the central issue is whether there has been any unfairness to Mrs T from 20 May 2014 
onwards. The fairness of the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that 
question.  
Under our rules, we are required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That includes  but is not limited to  relevant law. So, while I have taken 
account of the relevant law regarding unfair contractual terms, Ive also thought more 
broadly about whether the way the terms have been used has resulted in Mrs T being 
treated unfairly. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer when weighing up if 
Mrs Ts case should be upheld.  
Firstly I must point out that there isnt anything inherently unfair about a mortgage reverting 
to a SVR. They serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for future 
changes that justify changes in the rate, where costs to them are variable. Some borrowers 
choose to pay the SVR on their mortgage as a result of the flexibility it offers.
The SVR had varied multiple times throughout the life of the mortgage. The majority of these 
variances did not completely track the fluctuations in the relevant LIBOR index. But 
Kensington wasnt contractually obligated to do so. And in any event, the variances were 
usually less than 0.05% so were minimal.  As with most lenders, Kensingtons SVR reduced during the financial crisis, just not by as 
much as the reductions in LIBOR.  During this period, the wider market was going through 
significant change as a result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of 
businesses, including Kensington, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders 
interest rates charged across the market at the time. 
This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by both the Bank of England 
and the FCA. The FCA has specifically noted the adverse impact the financial crisis had on 
lenders costs during that period, and that it had not seen that SVR variation terms have 
generally been relied on unfairly to cause widespread detriment to consumers.
Whilst LIBOR did reduce significantly during this period, the costs to lenders of funding their 
business changed, as did their prudential requirements. There was a substantial increase in 
risk to all lenders during that period, and that led to them having to mitigate that risk in 
different ways. 
Kensington has provided our service with information that evidences its cost of funds above 
LIBOR had increased during this time. So, Im satisfied there are objectively justifiable 
reasons why Kensington did not reduce the applicable rate at the same level as the 
reduction in LIBOR.  
Kensingtons customers, including Mrs T, have protection against extreme changes in cost 
of funds since the margin over LIBOR is capped at 3% for its SVR (subject to the additional 
premium in Mrs Ts case). When the mortgage was taken out in 2007, the SVR was 1.15% 
above LIBOR. Hence the maximum permitted change in margin above LIBOR was 1.85% - 
since the margin could not increase above 3% under the terms and conditions. Ive 
explained above that during the financial crisis of 2007-2009, Kensingtons costs didnt 
reduce to the same extent LIBOR did, so it increased the margin. The maximum margin over 
LIBOR was 3%. The margin over LIBOR was in practice increased to modestly below this, 
with customers benefiting from the effect of the cap.  
I havent seen any evidence that suggests Kensingtons pricing decisions were arbitrary or 
made without regard to the interests of its customers like Mrs T.  
Summary 
Overall, taking into account all of the changes made to the SVR, while the terms do provide 
Kensington with wide discretion in regard to when or whether to vary the SVR charged on 
Mrs Ts mortgage, I dont think there is anything to suggest that Kensington has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably, or that Mrs T has overpaid interest as she claims.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman