DRN-4083787
The complaint
Miss E complains about Monzo Bank Ltd.
She says that Monzo didnt do enough to prevent her from becoming the victim of a scam 
and would like Monzo to refund her the money she has lost as a result.
What happened
Miss E was sent an Instagram message from a trusted friend where he told her that he had 
invested £800 in cryptocurrency and had made a substantial profit. 
Miss E had a discussion with her friend and asked him numerous times if he was sure this 
wasnt a scam. After being reassured, Miss E was put in contact with a third party, who 
persuaded her to send an initial payment of just over £800. Miss E was then told that she 
needed to make several further payments to purchase a pin which would allow her to 
withdraw her money (which would apparently be refunded to her), and then another payment 
to upgrade to the Platinum investment option. 
However, Miss E didnt realise that her friends Instagram account had been hacked  and 
she was actually speaking with a scammer.
Miss E reported the scam to Monzo and made a complaint.
Monzo didnt uphold her complaint but did pay her £250 for the errors it made in dealing with 
her complaint.
Unhappy, Miss E brought her complaint to this Service. Our Investigator considered the 
complaint and thought that it should be upheld in part.  
As neither party agreed with our Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Miss Es complaint, for broadly the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Miss E has been the victim of a scam  she was contacted via 
Instagram by a scammer who had hacked her friends account. The scammer persuaded her 
to part with money for a supposed investment in crypto, and then to part with further money 
in order to make a withdrawal of her supposed profit.
Miss E made the following payments to the scammer.
Date Merchant Amount
14 May 2022 MP £813.28
15 May 2022 MP £1,300
15 May 2022 MP £1,300
15 May 2022 MP £1,850
15 May 2022 MP £2,000
15 May 2022 MP £1,500
Total loss £8,763.28
Did Miss E authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss E isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
While I understand that Miss E was tricked into instructing Monzo to make the payments and 
never intended the money to go to the scammers, Im satisfied that Miss E did authorise the 
payments in question here. At the time, Miss E thought she was dealing with a legitimate 
individual off the recommendation of a trusted friend  it wasnt until Miss E realised she had 
been scammed that she knew this was not the case.
Should Monzo have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Monzo reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Miss E made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Miss E authorised the scam payments in question here 
 so she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Monzo should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Miss E made.
The first three payments
Im not persuaded that the first three payments should have triggered Monzo into taking any 
further action before processing Miss Es requests to make these payments. They werent 
for individually significant sums of money, and although they were higher than Miss Es usual 
spend, there is also a balance to be struck  and as Ive said above, businesses cant be 
involved in every transaction. 
The fourth payment
By the time the of the fourth, Miss E had paid over £5,000 in a few hours  a significant 
change in her normal account activity. I think that this should have triggered Monzo into 
taking action especially given that by January 2019, Monzo should already have had a good 
understanding about how scams like the one Mrs S fell victim to work.
With this in mind, Monzo should reasonably have contacted Miss E to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing her in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. If Monzo had done so, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Miss E about 
the payment  including what she was trying to make the payments for and surrounding 
context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential 
fraud or scam. But it did not do so.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss E had been coached by the scammer, or told to lie 
about what she was doing  so I think that she would have divulged to Monzo that she had 
been contacted by a friend through Instagram and introduced to someone offering 
investment in crypto. 
This should have been a red-flag to Monzo  and it should have given Miss E a meaningful 
warning that what she had told it bore all the hallmarks of a sophisticated scam  and I dont 
think that Miss E would have ignored this warning and risked making further payments.
I understand that Monzo believes that the payments werent made in a short space of time  
and that it isnt able to interfere with all payments made to crypto as not all payments to 
crypto. It also says that as the funds were transferred to a crypto account in Miss Es name 
that the loss is therefore outside of its control.
But I disagree. £5,000 in a latter of hours made from an account which does not normally 
have that kind of turnover is significantly unusual. And while not all payments made to crypto 
are the result of a scam, a significant amount of payments are. And Monzo has a duty to 
recognise unusual financial behaviour for its customers. Monzo should also know that in the 
case of crypto scams, the funds are usually transferred to an account in a customers name, 
before quickly being moved on at the direction of the scammer  so even though the loss 
occurred from the crypto wallet itself, Monzo should still have questioned the payment when 
it left Miss Es Monzo account.Therefore, I am satisfied that Monzo missed an opportunity to uncover the scam at this point 
and could have prevented the loss from payment four onwards.
Should Miss E bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that Monzo should have prevented the payments from payment four, I do 
also need to consider if Miss E should bear some responsibility for the loss by way of 
contributory negligence.
Miss E undertook none of her own checks before parting with her money, other than asking 
her friend if this was a scam  she also continued to pay the more money in order to 
purchase a PIN off the scammer  and when this failed to produce a withdrawal paid more 
money again, before finally parting with further funds to obtain platinum level to access her 
funds. I understand that Miss E was told that these amounts would be refunded to her  but I 
dont think that these requests are plausible  and Miss E should have applied more caution 
before parting with money  especially after complying with the initial request which didnt 
produce the promised return of funds.
That said, Miss E was not the expert here  and I understand that she has limited financial 
experience. Monzo had much more knowledge than Miss E about the intricacies of these 
kinds of scams  and it could have done more to protect her. 
Therefore, while I am satisfied that Miss E should bear some responsibility for what 
happened, Monzo should bear more. 
So, Miss E should bear 20% of the loss from payment four, and Monzo 80%.
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Miss E the sum to the last four payments (£5,350), minus 20% 
for contributory negligence.
I calculate this figure to be £4280.
I make no wared for interest as the funds were held in a non-interest paying account. 
I also understand that Monzo has paid Miss E £250 compensation for its failures when 
handling her complaint. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances and make no further 
award here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman