DRN-1500942
The complaint
Ms Ss complaint is that she was mis-sold two mobile phone insurance policies by The 
Carphone Warehouse (CPW). 
What happened
Ms S purchased a phone from a CPW store along with an insurance policy at the end of 
November 2015. On 9 December 2015, she returned the phone and bought a different one. 
The first policy was cancelled and a new policy, covering the new phone, was sold to Ms S 
that same day. Ms S kept the policy going until she cancelled it in May 2018. In March 2018 
Ms S made a claim on her insurance policy and the policy was cancelled in May 2018. 
Around a year later, she complained to CPW that the policies had been mis-sold to her.     
Ms S says she already had a household insurance contents policy that covered any phones; 
and she was told by CPW that she had to take the policies. Ms S says she was tricked into 
buying both insurance policies and wants all the premiums she has paid to be refunded 
together with interest. 
CPW says Ms S cancelled the first policy within the first 14 days and so the premium she 
had paid for this policy when it started, was refunded to her at the time she cancelled it. 
CPW says it cant consider any allegation of mis-sale about the second policy because Ms S 
made a successful claim under the policy in March 2018. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Ms S does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear information about any 
policy they are selling, which would include how long it will last for and the price. If the policy 
is being recommended, which this one appears to have been, they would also have to try 
and ensure it was suitable for the customer. 
Ms S says she was told she had to have the policies otherwise she would not be covered if 
anything happened to the phones. I do not consider that this would amount to a coercive 
sale. It is not the same as saying the policies were compulsory and she could not buy the 
phones without also buying the insurance (which would be wrong). 
Ive also considered the paperwork provided to Ms S at the time. Ms S signed the Insurance 
& Tech Support Certificate for each policy. The wording on both certificates is the same. 
In my opinion the information on the certificates is sufficiently clear. The document is two 
pages but the second page is a direct debit guarantee. The information about the policy is all 
on the first page and there are three boxes Ms S was required to tick and a space for her to 
sign to confirm she was taking the insurance. 
The boxes include one which says: I confirm I have read the important information on this 
certificate and that I have answered any questions the sales consultant has asked, including 
whether I may have alternative cover... The other boxes relate to the significant exclusions 
of the policy and the last of these says the insurance is not compulsory. 
Obviously, it is difficult for me to be sure what was asked of Ms S at the time and what she 
was told about the policy verbally. But as stated, being told she would not be covered 
without insurance for the phone is not entirely unreasonable. And the paperwork provided to 
her does not support that she was mis-led in any way. 
The documents drew Ms Ss attention to the possibility she might have alternative cover. Not 
all home insurance policies cover phones when they are not in the home and the cover 
provided to Ms S by any other insurance policy would not be known to CPW.
In my opinion, the documents are sufficiently clear the policy is optional and that Ms S 
should check any other cover she had. So overall, I am not persuaded that it has been 
established the policies were mis-sold. 
Ms S has also questioned the reasons for CPW refusing to uphold her complaint. It is not 
correct that a mis-selling allegation cant be considered where a successful claim has been 
made under a policy. Ms S is correct that a policy can still have been mis-sold, even if it has 
been useful; though the fact a successful claim has been made might affect any award 
made. However, in this case, I do not consider the second policy was mis-sold for the 
reasons given, so even though I do not think CPW relied on the correct reasons for not 
upholding Ms Ss complaint, it makes no difference to the outcome of her complaint to us. 
There can also be a mis-sale of a policy, even if the premiums have already been refunded. 
However, in this case, the only premium paid for the first policy was refunded and there has 
not been any suggestion of any other loss or adverse consequence as a result of the sale of 
that policy. So, even if it had been mis-sold (which I do not think it was for the reasons given 
above) there would be no award to make, as there was no loss to Ms S as a result. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman