DRN-4413867
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr P are complaining that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV (Accelerant) 
have declined a claim they made on their commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr P own a property which they bought in 2015 from a council. In June 2019 they 
entered into a tenancy contract with a third party company  who I shall refer to as F  to 
rent the property. Under the terms of the contract, F would pay Mrs C and Mr P rental 
income on a monthly basis. However, Mrs C and Mr P have said that F stopped paying rent 
from around May 2021. They said they tried to get in contact with F, but were unable to do 
so. So they instructed solicitors to start legal proceedings to regain possession of the 
property. And in August 2022 the court granted an order of possession. However, before 
this, Mrs C and Mr P said they were advised by the Police that the property was being used 
by the inhabitants to grow cannabis. 
Once Mrs C and Mr P accessed the property, they discovered that the property had suffered 
a significant amount of damage. So they contacted Accelerant to make a claim on their 
commercial property insurance policy. However, Accelerant declined the claim as it said the 
policy didnt cover malicious damage where the inhabitants were in the property lawfully. 
And it said the inhabitants had a tenancy agreement with F.
Mrs C and Mr P said the inhabitants werent there lawfully for the following reasons:
The inhabitants didnt have a tenancy agreement with them, so they hadnt authorised 
the inhabitants to be in the property. 
They became aware of the presence of the inhabitants and started legal proceedings to 
evict them from the property shortly after that.
The terms of the tenancy agreement with F stipulates that You must not do the 
following  8. Transfer, sublet or give up the property, or any part of it. So they said F 
didnt have the right to sublet the property to another party. 
Accelerant still didnt think the claim was covered as they said the inhabitants had a tenancy 
agreement and that a tenancy that is protected by the Rent Act 1977, Housing Act 1985, 
Housing Act 1988 and Housing Act 1996 continues with the same security of tenure after the 
date a possession order takes effect, regardless of whether the possession order is outright, 
suspended or postponed.[2] The tenancy will end only when the tenant is evicted or the 
tenant leaves of their own after the possession order is made. The tenant does not become 
a trespasser and rent is payable until the tenancy ends. So they maintained that the 
inhabitants were lawfully in the property. Mrs C and Mr P didnt agree, so they referred their 
complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he thought it was fair for Accelerant to say 
that the inhabitants were lawfully in the property. Mrs C and Mr P didnt agree and said that, 
if F had allowed people to stay in the property, then F had breached their tenancy 
agreement. They said F had no right or permission to allow other people to reside in the 
property. So they maintained the inhabitants were in the property unlawfully.
As Mrs C and Mr P didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mrs C and Mr P have found themselves. Theyve 
suffered a loss that they expected their insurance policy to cover. But no insurance policy 
covers every loss that may arise. Their insurance policy covers malicious damage, which is 
essentially what Mrs C and Mr P are claiming for, but the terms further set out:
Excluded from Cover
a) Loss or damage caused by you, or any person lawfully in the housing unit.
So the issue for me to decide is whether it was fair for Accelerant to say the inhabitants who 
caused the damage were lawfully in the property or not.
Mrs C and Mr P set out that the inhabitants didnt have a tenancy agreement with them and 
that the terms of their tenancy agreement with F set out that F wasnt allowed to sublet the 
property. But I also have to take into consideration that the agreement also says:
We will let the property to you and only:
[F], any 3rd party tenants or company authorised by the director.
I also think its clear from Fs full name that they were an agency instructed to source tenants 
for Mrs C and Mr P . So I think they should have reasonably been aware that F would be 
looking for tenants on their behalf. And the terms of the policy set out that Mrs C and Mr P 
have agreed to let to 3rd party tenants which is what the inhabitants were. I note theyve 
referenced the fact that the terms dont allow for the property to be sublet. But I think a 
reasonable interpretation of this is that the 3rd party tenants are not entitled to sublet the 
property.
Mrs C and Mr P have said that F explained to them that it would only rent to its employees. 
But this doesnt change the terms of the tenancy agreement and any concerns they may 
have in this regard would be a private matter between them and F.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that the terms of the tenancy agreement entitled F to enter into 
separate tenancy contracts with a third party, which it did with the inhabitants in question. 
But, even if this wasnt the case and that F werent entitled to let the property to anyone 
other than an employee of F, it doesnt mean that the inhabitants were unlawfully in the 
property. I understand the inhabitants had a tenancy agreement and had a contractual right 
to be in the property. Essentially Mrs C and Mr P are asserting that F has breached the 
terms of its tenancy agreement. But would be considered a breach of contract by F and it 
doesnt follow that the inhabitants were breaking the law by being in the property. 
It seems to me that any concerns Mrs C and Mr P have are a civil dispute between them and 
F. But I cant reasonably say it was unfair for Accelerant to say that the inhabitants were not 
being unlawful by being in the property. So, it follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for Accelerant to say the claim wasnt covered under the terms of the policy.
If Mrs C and Mr P have any concerns about the actions of F, theyll need to raise that with F 
directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman