DRN-2628096
The complaint
 Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed her bank account. And didnt 
treat her fairly when she repaid her overdraft. 
What happened
 Miss A had an account with Santander with an agreed overdraft of £2,000.
In February 2019, Santander blocked and reviewed Miss As account. At the time of the 
block the account was just over £2,100 overdrawn. Miss A discovered her account was 
blocked when she tried to make a payment into her account to reduce her overdraft. 
On 12 February 2019, Miss A called the bank to find out why she couldnt access her 
account. Santander told Miss A that whilst her account was blocked it couldnt accept any 
payments into the account. Santander also refunded Miss As account fee and suspended all 
interest and charges on the account. 
Following its review Santander decided to close Miss As account and asked her to repay 
her overdraft within 7 days. The bank told Miss A that if she wasnt able to do this her 
account would be passed to its collections and recoveries team. And that although her 
account would remain blocked, she could still make payments into the account to clear the 
overdraft. 
Miss A wasnt able to clear the overdraft within 7 days and contacted the banks collections 
department. She told them that shed built up her overdraft during a period of unemployment. 
But had managed to secure a new job about a month before her account was blocked, so 
she was now in a position to start paying off the debt. Miss A told Santander that she was 
worried about the interest and charges on the overdraft and was worried that shed struggle 
to make ends meet and pay off what she owed the bank. To help Miss A, Santander agreed 
to waive charges of £150 and froze interest charges. 
On 5 June 2019, Santander completed an income and expenditure form to ascertain how 
much Miss A could afford to pay towards the outstanding debt. Miss A agreed to pay a 
minimum of £10 every month and was provided with details for her to set up a standing order 
to pay from her new bank account. Miss A was happy with the arrangement. Following this 
Miss A tried to make the following payments:
On 11 and 12 June 2019, Miss A called Santander to make her agreed payment. But 
each time she called, due to the account being blocked the bank couldnt accept the 
payment. Santander told Miss A shed have to make any future payments in branch 
due to the block on her account. Miss A told the bank that this would be very 
inconvenient for her due to work. Santander apologised and paid Miss A £150 for the 
trouble and upset shed been caused having to make phone calls and visit a branch
On 10 August 2019, Miss A visited a branch and paid £161.66
On 1 October 2019, Miss A went into a branch to make a payment. But staff at the 
branch were unable to speak to the banks department to lift the block so that 
payment could be made against the account
On 5 October 2019, Miss A went into branch to try and make a payment into the 
account. But she couldnt do so due to the block on the account and staff told her 
they couldnt help
On 16 October 2019, Miss A complained to the bank about not being able to make 
payments when she visited a branch. In response, Santander gave Miss A a specific 
phone number to use to make payments over the phone. However, when Miss A 
tried to make the payment over the phone it couldnt be processed due to the block 
on the account
On 30 October 2019, Miss A raised a further complaint after she was unable to make 
payments over the phone and had to take time off work to make payments in branch. 
Between 1 November 2019 and 18 June 2020, Miss A made monthly payments into 
the account in branch reducing the balance to just over £800
Miss A felt that Santander hadnt treated her fairly when it blocked and closed her account. 
And when shed tried to repay her overdraft. She said shed not been able to make 
payments into the account over the phone even though the bank had told her she could. And 
having to go into branch each time she wanted to make a paymentcaused her a great deal 
of inconvenience. She also said shed had to take time off work to make the trips into branch 
and her mental health had suffered due to the stress of trying to sort things out with the 
bank. 
Miss A complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into Miss As complaint. 
She said Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and decided to close 
Miss As account. She agreed that Santander was entitled to call in the overdraft, but she 
said Santander hadnt treated Miss A fairly. She said whilst the bank had waived interest and 
charges, it should also have agreed a reliable way for Miss A to make her repayments in 
June 2019. She said Miss A had been caused distress and inconvenience when trying to 
make her payments. So, she said Santander should pay Miss A an additional £200 
compensation. 
Santander accepted what the investigator said. It agreed that it gave Miss A incorrect 
information about how she could make repayments and should have provided her with better 
service. Miss A didnt think the compensation went far enough. She wants Santander to write 
off the debt and to pay her more compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access.
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account made things quite difficult for 
Miss A. So, I can understand why she found this experience with Santander stressful and 
upsetting. But as Ive explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws 
and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander was 
complying with its obligations when it blocked Miss As account. The bank has explained that 
this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Miss A inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated her unfairly when it blocked her 
account. 
I understand Miss A wants Santander to explain the reason it applied the block to her 
account. But Santander doesnt need to disclose to its customers what triggers a review of 
their accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Miss A the reasons behind the account review 
and block, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not 
giving Miss A this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss As account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Miss As account immediately. In my view that was reasonable given the 
banks concerns about how Miss A was operating her account. So, it was entitled to close the 
account as it has already done. And did so in line with the account terms and relevant 
regulations. 
overdraft repayment
An overdraft is a debt, but it doesnt operate in the same way as a loan or credit card for 
example. It doesnt require regular fixed or minimum payments. Miss As overdraft was, as is 
common, repayable on demand. That is, the bank was entitled to ask Miss A to repay it at 
any time, simply by giving notice to her. At the point the bank closed Miss As account she 
was overdrawn, and she owed money shed borrowed from the bank. 
Miss A was given 7 days to repay it, and when it became clear that Miss A was not in a 
position to do so, Im pleased to see that Santander agreed an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss A after discussing her circumstances, refunded Miss As account fee and 
suspended all interest and charges on the account. So, Im satisfied Santander took 
appropriate steps to help Miss A. I would however remind Santander that its obligation to 
treat a case of financial difficulty in a positive and sympathetic manner is an ongoing one; 
but Miss A also needs to be aware that that obligation wont necessarily prevent Santander 
from seeking repayment in the future.
Whilst Im satisfied Santander has treated Miss A positively and sympathetically regarding 
repaying her overdraft, I think Santander have provided Miss A with contradictory and wrong 
information about how she could repay her overdraft. I say this because when the bank told 
Miss A it was closing her account the bank told Miss A that although her account remained 
blocked, shed still be able to make payments into the account towards her overdraft over 
the phone. Santander also told Miss A to arrange a standing order from her new account so 
that payments could be made into her blocked account. Both of these instructions were 
incorrect. No credits could be received into the account due to the blocks. Miss A made a number of phone calls to Santander to try and pay money towards her 
overdraft as instructed, each time she was told this wasnt possible due to the blocks on her 
account. And the bank told her shed have to visit a branch. But when she did go along to 
make her payments staff at the branches couldnt arrange for the block to be removed so 
that she could make her payment. So, Miss A had several wasted trips to bank branches, 
which Ive no doubt caused her inconvenience and made an already difficult situation much 
more stressful.
Ive also thought about compensation for the trouble and upset Miss As experienced. Shes 
described how not being able to pay off her debt has caused her to worry, inconvenience 
and affected her mental health. I think some stress was always likely because of Miss As 
financial situation. But she has always been willing to repay what she owed and went to a lot 
of trouble to try and make payments. And I think a more reasonable service from Santander 
would have meant Miss A would have found things easier and she wouldnt have suffered 
the trouble and upset shes been caused. Had Santander done more to help her, by giving 
her a clear, straightforward means to repay her overdraft from the start, I find it likely the 
trouble and upset caused would have been less. I acknowledge Santander has already paid 
Miss A £150 for its poor service. But Im satisfied that an additional payment of £200 
compensation is warranted. Santander should pay this compensation to Miss A, for her to 
then decide how to use it.
I know Miss A has suggested Santander should write off the debt. But Ive thought about the 
actual money Miss A borrowed. Shes had the use of that, so Im not going to say Santander 
should write off the debt.
My final decision
 My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Miss As complaint, Santander UK Plc 
should pay Miss A £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman