DRN-2745764
The complaint
Mr O complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited has failed to make annuity payments to 
him on time. 
What happened
Mr O holds an annuity with Phoenix that was started in November 2014. The annuity pays 
him £349.61 each month. Mr O is resident overseas, and so the payment needs to be made 
into a foreign bank account. Phoenix has explained that this means the payment is made 
manually rather than via its normal automated payment system. And so, despite its best 
efforts, some problems have occurred.
Mr O has told us that he has faced a number of problems receiving payments in the past. 
But, bearing in mind the rules about the time in which complaints needed to be referred to 
this Service, our investigator has explained to Mr O that we can only consider the payment 
problems that happened in March, August, and September 2020. I have noted that Mr O has 
said that further problems have also occurred more recently. Although I will touch on the 
more recent problems in my decision, it will not form part of my directions about what 
Phoenix needs to do to put things right.
In March 2020 Phoenix says its payment to Mr O was rejected by the banking systems. 
There was then a delay whilst Phoenix awaited confirmation that the payment hadnt been 
made. Phoenix then sent two payments to Mr O. Phoenix agreed that Mr O should keep the 
additional payment as compensation for its error.
In August 2020 Phoenix incorrectly paid Mr O $349.61 rather than the correct £349.61. And 
it was late making the payment that was due in September 2020. It offered him £400 for the 
trouble and upset hed been caused, £129 for the cost of the phone calls Mr O had needed 
to make, and some interest at 8% on the delayed payments. Mr O didnt accept that offer 
and brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr O has explained that he is suffering from cancer. He says that as a result of the delayed 
payments he has needed to sell some possessions to fund his ongoing treatment. And the 
delayed payments have resulted in him needing to cancel some treatment. That affects the 
future monitoring of his condition that might be needed, and potentially his prognosis. He 
wants an apology from Phoenix for its errors, and guarantees that the problem wont reoccur 
in the future.
Mr Os complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
compensation Phoenix had offered to Mr O was reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. So he didnt think Phoenix needed to do anything more. Mr O didnt agree with 
that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr O and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There seems little dispute that Phoenix has failed to make some of the payments that were 
due to Mr O on time. Whilst I understand that Mr Os circumstances are a little unusual  his 
payments are being made to a foreign bank  I dont think they are so different that 
I wouldnt expect Phoenix to have adequate procedures to deal with them. So I can entirely 
understand Mr Os frustration and disappointment at the multiple problems. And I have no 
doubts that, despite Phoenixs assurances of process improvements, that frustration grows 
with every delayed payment  including the more recent problems I mentioned in my 
introduction.
But as Ive explained above, my role is not to act as the regulator for Phoenix, and so direct 
how it should change or improve its processes. So given Phoenix accepts that something 
has gone wrong, my responsibilities in this decision are to look at any losses that Mr O has 
suffered and to ensure that he is adequately compensated for any delays in the receipt of his 
annuity payments.
I think I should first look at the direct consequences of the delayed payments from 2020. It 
seems to me that Phoenix has now paid each of the annuity payments that were due to 
Mr O. So the direct losses would result from the time that he was without use of that money. 
In circumstances such as those I would expect Phoenix to pay simple interest to cover the 
period of the delay. And I can see that interest has formed part of the offer that Phoenix has 
made to Mr O.
So I would then turn towards the less obvious losses that Mr O says he has experienced. 
Mr O has told us that he was undergoing treatment for cancer and using his annuity 
payments to fund the costs of that treatment. So he says that the delays meant that he 
needed to urgently sell a laptop computer to pay his treatment costs. And he says that the 
later delays meant he was unable to complete the course of treatment he had started.
I dont think, and it seems Mr O hasnt provided any evidence to the contrary, that it is 
possible to predict with any certainty how the delayed payments from Phoenix, and the 
corresponding impact on any treatment, will affect his prognosis. I think there is a reasonable 
likelihood that some of the problems Mr O says might occur in the future could have 
happened even if his treatment had been completed. 
And I am also mindful that he has failed to provide any evidence to show that the relatively 
small monthly annuity payments, were the sole source of funding for his treatment  I note 
for example that the value of the laptop computer he says he sold was equivalent to a 
number of months annuity payments. So on balance, Im not able to reasonably conclude that the delays to the annuity payments 
meant that Mr O would be unable to continue with his medical treatment. I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to direct Phoenix to take responsibility for any of the future 
medical bills that Mr O might incur.
But I have no doubts that these problems will have caused significant trouble and upset for 
Mr O  particularly because they arose at a time when he was suffering from significant 
ill-health and says he was reliant on the prompt receipt of the payments. And whilst his 
location might have been a contributing cause to the problems, that same location also 
made it difficult for him to speak with Phoenix by telephone to query the delayed payments.
I can see that in March 2020 Phoenix allowed Mr O to retain the duplicated payment in lieu 
of the trouble and upset hed been caused. And in relation to the delays in August and 
September 2020 Phoenix has offered Mr O £400. I think that both those amounts fall in line 
with what I would normally direct in circumstances such as these. So I wouldnt expect 
Phoenix to increase the offer it has made to Mr O for his trouble and upset.
Mr O has asked for an assurance from Phoenix that all his future payments will be made 
without problems. Since this is a manual process that isnt an assurance that Phoenix can 
provide  despite all best efforts human errors do sometimes occur. But I am sure that 
Phoenix will be working diligently to ensure that the chances of any future errors are 
minimised  after all I am sure that Phoenix doesnt want to be dealing with complaints of 
this nature on a repetitive basis from Mr O.
I think that the letters, and explanations, that Phoenix has sent to Mr O have expressed 
apologies for the problems he has faced. Phoenix has not, from the evidence I have seen, 
failed to acknowledge the mistakes it has made. So I dont intend to direct Phoenix to do 
anything further in terms of a written apology for what happened in 2020.
Putting things right
Phoenix allowed Mr O to retain the duplicate payment it made in March 2020. I think that is 
fair compensation for the problems it caused at that time.
Phoenix has offered Mr O the compensation noted below in respect of the problems in 
August and September 2020;
£400 for the trouble and upset he was caused
£129 for the cost of the phone calls he made
£1.47 interest for the delays to the payments
I think those amounts are fair compensation for the delays that occurred in August and 
September 2020. If Phoenix hasnt paid that compensation to Mr O it should do so 
immediately.
I dont think Phoenix needs to do anything further in relation to what happened in 2020.My final decision
My final decision is that I think the offer Phoenix Life Assurance Limited has made to Mr O in 
relation to this complaint is fair. If it hasnt already done so, Phoenix should pay that 
compensation to Mr O. But it doesnt need to do anything further to that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman