DRN-1925716
 
The complaint
Ms D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in December 1998 which 
was taken out in connection with a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In 1998, Ms D bought PPI during a telephone call. She says the policy was mis-sold.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Ms D owed on her store card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Ms D couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ms D disagreed and she asked for the 
matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ds complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
The PPI in this case was sold during a telephone call. Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able 
to provide a copy of the call recording. It also hasnt been able to provide a copy of the 
telephone call script used at the time. So I dont know what its representative may have said 
to Ms D during the sale. But based on what I do know of the sales process and given the fact 
that PPI was added at some time after the store card application was made, I think Ms D 
would have understood the policy was optional and that she chose to take it out. And it 
certainly cant have been a condition of being granted credit. 
It is also likely the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her statements  so if 
she hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either her knowledge or her 
consent, I think its reasonable to say she would have queried the premiums shortly after the 
policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Ms D knew the policy was 
optional and chose to purchase it because she saw some value in it.
I dont think AXA advised Ms D to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with enough clear 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
As Ive explained, I dont know exactly what information Ms D received about the policy at 
the time of sale. Even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the 
policy, I dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Ms D was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. So I think the policy could have been of benefit to her.
Although Ms D told us she was employed and in good health, she also says she would have 
received sick pay if she was away from work due to illness. But I noted the policy would have 
paid out in addition to Ms Ds employment benefits so could have proved useful to Ms D if 
she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. I also noted the policy would pay a 15% 
monthly benefit and the monthly cost does not seem to have been unaffordable. So I think 
the cost and potential benefit provided by the PPI was useful for her.
Overall, I think Ms D knew she had a choice about buying the PPI and I think she would still 
have taken out the cover even if she had been given more detailed information about it.  
Ive taken into account Ms Ds comments, but these do not change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman