DRN-3576735
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the charges Ald Automotive Limited (Ald Automotive) applied when 
he handed back a car he acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
Mr P acquired a car under a 24 month hire agreement with Ald Automotive in June 2019. 
Under the agreement, Mr P was entitled to travel 16,000 miles in the car. The car was due to 
be collected on 29 November 2021, but Mr P asked to extend his lease, which Ald 
Automotive agreed to and the car was collected on 12 December 2021 instead. The car was 
collected by Ald Automotives recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B.
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Ps car when it collected it. It identified four areas of 
damage it said fell outside fair wear and tear. The charges totalled £430. It also noted that 
the car was returned having completed 37,175 miles. Ald Automotive reviewed the damage 
charges and removed one of them, reducing the charges to £300. It also explained to Mr P 
he owed it £90 for the aborted collection and £1,623.35 for the excess mileage travelled.
Unhappy with the charges, Mr P complained to Ald Automotive. He said he had asked for it 
to send him correspondence by email as he had moved abroad. But it still sent him letters. 
He also asked Ald Automotive to provide proof of the £300 damage charges and said as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic, he was required to take his child to hospital appointments 
by car, when he previously did this by public transport. He said he told Ald Automotive about 
this and it told him the excess mileage wouldnt be an issue.
Ald Automotive issued its response to Mr Ps complaint. It said the damage charges had 
been calculated correctly. But it said as the service it had provided fell short of what Mr P 
should expect, it agreed to waive the damage charges of £300 and the aborted collection 
charge of £90 as a gesture of goodwill. It also said whilst it sympathised with the difficulties 
Mr P faced as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the excess mileage had been charged 
correctly as per the terms of his agreement. It also said, apart from the request to authorise 
late hire, it had received no request to reschedule the agreement which would have enabled 
Mr P to change his overall mileage limit. And so it said Mr P owed it £1,623.35 for the excess 
mileage travelled.
Unhappy with this, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. He acknowledged that Ald 
Automotive had waived the damage charges and agreed to it doing this. But he said he was 
unhappy it was charging him for additional mileage. He said he wouldnt have been able to 
estimate how much additional mileage he needed given that the advice provided by the 
government changed so frequently. He said it would have been disproportionate for him to 
request a mileage variation due to the cost associated with it. He said as a resolution to his 
complaint, he wanted Ald Automotive to waive the charges for excess mileage and let him 
know how much he owed for the additional six days hire.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Ald Automotive had done anything 
wrong. She said she thought both the aborted collection charge and damage charges had 
been correctly calculated. But she acknowledged that Ald Automotive had agreed to waive 
these charges. She also said the charge for the excess mileage had been correctly charged 
in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Mr P disagreed. He said he was required to use the car more to travel to medical 
appointments during the Covid-19 pandemic due to his childs medical condition and Ald 
Automotive should have made allowances for customers who needed to use their cars more 
during Covid-19. He also said it was difficult to speak to Ald Automotive during Covid-19 and 
their waiting times were unacceptable. And he said when Ald Automotive removed the 
damage charges it did this to disguise its guilt.
Our investigator said the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) didnt require 
firms to increase mileage allowances during the Covid-19 pandemic. And so, Ald Automotive 
hadnt acted incorrectly.
Mr P said Ald Automotive was also sending him postal chasers despite him telling it he was 
moving abroad. And it sent him a Notice of Default which caused him stress. 
As Mr P remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr P has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether Ald Automotive fairly applied any charges 
following Mr P returning the car. If it didnt, Ill consider whats fair, if anything, to put things 
right.
Ald Automotive has agreed to waive the charges for the aborted collection as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr P accepts this gesture, so I havent commented on it as part of this decision. 
Ald Automotive has also agreed to waive the damage charges it applied as a gesture of 
goodwill in light of the service it provided to Mr P. Mr P has accepted this. However for 
completeness, Ive reviewed each of the charges below.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). This guidance is generally 
intended for the return of new cars at the end of the first leasing cycle. 
Scratches
Bs condition report identified scratches over 25mm on both the front bumper and the left 
hand rear quarter panel. 
For both scratches to bumpers and the body and paint of a car, the BVRLA guidance says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable.
Ive looked at the photographs provided for both scratches. The scratch to the front bumper 
is greater than 100mm and a ruler has been used to measure this. The photograph which 
shows the scratches to the left hand rear quarter panel, shows a number of scratches 
measuring around 100mm. As the scratches are in excess of 100mm, I think its fair for Ald 
Automotive to charge Mr P for the damage to the front bumper and left hand rear quarter 
panel. 
DentsBs condition report identified a dent in the left hand front wing. In relation to dents, the 
BVRLA guidance says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Ive looked at the photograph provided by B for the dent it identified in the left hand front 
wing. It shows a dent which is greater than 15mm and so Im satisfied Ald Automotive is 
entitled to charge Mr P for this damage.
Excess mileage 
Under Mr Ps hire agreement, the car could cover 16,000 miles over a two year period 
without incurring excess mileage charges. Mr P acquired a new car and so it was supplied 
with 0 miles. But when B collected the car from Mr P, it had completed 37,175 miles. This is 
21,175 miles more than the mileage allowance.
Ive thought about whether I think it is fair and reasonable for Ald Automotive to charge Mr P 
for the additional mileage the car travelled. 
The hire agreement Mr P signed states:
Total Contract Mileage16,000
Excess Mileage Rate (pence per mile  excl VAT) Up to 9999 miles 7.78pOver 9999 
miles 7.78p.
Im satisfied the agreement clearly states how much Mr P would need to pay for each 
additional mile he travelled in the car, if it was returned with more than 16,000 miles. 
Ive gone on to think about what Mr P says about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Im sorry to hear about the personal circumstances Mr P has detailed which he says meant 
he needed to use the car more during the Covid-19 pandemic. Whilst Ive taken this into 
consideration, Ald Automotive had a process in place which allowed its customer to increase 
their mileage allowance as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This wasnt a requirement that 
the FCA expected motor finance lenders to adopt as a response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
This is something Ald Automotive chose to provide its customers with during the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr P didnt contact Ald Automotive to discuss a mileage increase. He says he didnt do this 
because this would have been disproportionate due to the cost associated with it and he 
didnt know how much additional mileage to request given the changing government 
guidance. Mr P also didnt tell Ald Automotive about his personal circumstances which would 
have provided it with an opportunity to offer him options in relation to his mileage increase. 
Whilst I acknowledge what Mr P has said and the personal circumstances hes explained, I 
cant hold Ald Automotive responsible for Mr P deciding not to request a mileage increase 
when he was entitled to do so. Had he done so, it would have likely prevented the additional 
mileage cost. 
Mr P has also referenced guidance around vulnerable customers which was published by 
the FCA, after he had returned the car. However, Ald Automotive didnt know about Mr Ps 
circumstances and so it wasnt given the opportunity to potentially assist him or respond to 
his vulnerabilities. So I cant say its acted unfairly when it wasnt afforded this opportunity.
Customer service
Mr P says it was difficult to speak to Ald Automotive during Covid-19 and their waiting times 
were unacceptable. However, Mr P hasnt provided any supporting information to show he 
attempted to contact Ald Automotive. But in any event, the Covid-19 pandemic was an 
unprecedented time that impacted businesses as well as consumers. So, to some extent, I think its understandable it took a bit longer than usual to respond to queries. So based on 
the information provided to me, I cant see that Ald Automotive unfairly obstructed Mr P from 
contacting it and neither do I think it caused any unreasonable delays.
When Ald Automotive issued its response to Mr Ps complaint, it agreed to waive the £300 
damage charges and the £90 aborted collection cost. This was to recognise that it didnt 
respond to Mr P in a timely manner when he asked about the outstanding invoice charges 
and that he had asked for invoices to be emailed to me rather than posted to him. Having 
considered whats happened, I think this amount is fair and reasonable to reflect the three 
month period that Ald Automotive incorrectly sent two invoices to Mr P by post and for not 
sending Mr P the outstanding invoices in a timely manner.
My final decision
Ald Automotive Limited has already made an offer to remove a total of £390 of charges from 
the outstanding amount owed by Mr P. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Ald Automotive Limited should remove £390 from the outstanding 
amount owed by Mr P.
With regards to any amount that remains payable by Mr P, Id like to take this opportunity to 
remind Ald Automotive Limited of its obligations to treat Mr P with forbearance and due 
consideration if he is in financial difficulty.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman