DRN-1584066
The complaint
Mr L complains about his motor insurer, esure Insurance Limited (esure), treating a claim for 
damage to his car as two separate claims. Hes also not happy with how long repairs took to 
be done.
What happened
Mr Ls car was damaged while parked and unattended. He made a claim on his insurance to 
have the damage repaired. His car was inspected by a repairer and details, including some 
photos, were sent to esure. 
Esure had an in-house engineer look at the photos of the damage. The engineer said they 
thought the damage was caused by two different events. Esure told Mr L that meant hed 
need to have two separate claims to cover the repairs, and so pay his policy excess of £300 
twice. Mr L was unhappy with this, and explained to esure that his repairer, whod inspected 
the car in person, thought the damage all came from the same event. 
Mr L complained, but esure felt the damage was more likely to be as their engineer said  
caused by two separate events. Esure also spoke to the repairer Mr L had spoken to, but the 
repairer wasnt willing to put his opinion in writing for their engineer to consider further. 
Our investigator found esure had acted reasonably by relying on their engineers opinion, 
even if the engineer had only looked at photos of Mr Ls car. She felt that the time taken to 
have the work done was a bit long, but reasonable given esure were negotiating the cost 
with a repairer that wasnt part of their approved network. Further investigation though 
confirmed that the repairer was part of a group esure had a working agreement with. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators view, so the case has come to me for a final 
decision. 
My view on the time taken to repair Mr Ls car is different to our investigators. Ive written 
separately to Mr L and esure to give them the chance to consider my understanding of what 
happened while Mr L was waiting for his car to be repaired, before confirming my decision 
here. Neither party has provided further comments or evidence in light of my thoughts on the 
time taken to repair the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Mr L nor esure know exactly how the damage to his car happened. No witnesses 
came forward, and I cant see any CCTV was available. As a result, all the opinions in this 
case about what happened have had to be drawn from looking at the damage to Mr Ls car. 
And so, Ive needed to consider whether esure arrived at a fair and reasonable conclusion, 
based on this limited evidence.
I can appreciate Mr L was told by the repairer who saw the car that the damage was 
probably caused by one event. But I can also see esure were told by their in-house expert 
that it was probably caused by two. I understand Mr Ls point that the expert esure relied on 
was only looking at photos of the damage, but a key factor in the opinion was the location of 
the damage. That would have been clear to see even from a photo. So, I dont think the fact 
that esure didnt physically see the car means the evidence from their engineer should be 
discounted. 
It appears there was damage around the rear lights on the passenger side of Mr Ls car. 
There were also scrapes to the passenger side wing mirror and on the lower door sill of the 
passenger side. 
Esures engineer appears to have felt the lower down scratches on the door sill were more 
consistent with the car catching something like a bollard. I agree that wouldnt be likely to 
cause the damage around the rear lights. Likewise, I can see how the damage around the 
rear lights could be consistent with someone hitting Mr Ls car while parking  but I cant 
picture how that would also cause the scraping to the door sills.
Esure ultimately gave the engineers report more weight than the comments from the 
repairer. I can understand Mr L feels this reflects an unwillingness by esure to pay the full 
value of his claims. But I dont see any evidence for that here. The experts opinion  that the 
damage comes from two separate incidents  seems to better fit the damage shown in the 
photographs of Mr Ls car. So I think it was reasonable for esure to base their decision on 
that opinion, even though it was less favourable to Mr L than what the repairer thought. 
In terms of the time it took to have the repairs done, I note the investigators view about how 
long it took to have the repair cost approved. Looking at emails sent between the repairer 
and esure from 31 May to late June 2019, I can see the discussions covered a bit more 
ground than that. 
The repairer gave esure details of the damage and work needed, but esure asked for some 
better photos of the damage. The repairer gave these, but at that point seems to have 
noticed the damage to the door sills. Esure reviewed the case, and then confirmed to Mr L 
that they would treat the matter as two claims. The exact nature of the work needed was 
then discussed. 
I shared my understanding of this sequence of events with Mr L and esure before I made 
this decision. Neither has made any specific comments about my understanding, so Ive 
made my decision assuming my understanding is accurate. 
None of the steps seem unreasonable to me. I would expect esure to work out the full extent 
of the work that would be done under the claim before the work started. I see there was 
sometimes a three-day delay in esure getting back to the repairer on something. This could 
maybe have moved a little quicker, but equally the matter wasnt straight-forward. 
With this in mind, I think esures service was reasonable when arranging to have the repairs 
done. The points being discussed with the repairer were valid points, and done in a 
reasonable, though perhaps not rapid, timescale.
My final decision
While I appreciate its not the result Mr L will have been hoping for, I dont uphold his 
complaints in this case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman