DRN-3163841
The complaint
Mr F complained about advice given to him by one of ICF Financial Services Limiteds 
advisors to transfer his defined benefit occupational pension (OPS) to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP).
Mr F is represented in this matter by a claims management company. For ease, Ill refer to 
any representations made on Mr Fs behalf as being made by Mr F himself.
What happened
Mr F met ICFs advisor in February 2017 and a discussion took place about his financial 
position and objectives. Following the meeting the advisor sent Mr F a report, in which he 
recommended that Mr F transfer his OPS to a SIPP. The recommendation was made so that 
Mr F could take a higher amount of tax-free cash as a lump sum, access his benefits flexibly, 
and pass any unused pension to his wife and sons if he died.
There was a further meeting in September 2017 where a discussion took place about how 
Mr Fs funds would be invested. The paperwork was also completed and signed. ICF sent 
Mr F a transfer analysis report (TVAS) two days later. A second recommendation report was 
later issued focussing on the investments.
Mr F took the advice and his OPS was transferred to the SIPP.
In 2019 Mr F complained to ICF as he felt the advice he received was unsuitable. ICF 
investigated the matter but didnt think it had done anything wrong.
What I provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
The main parts of my provisional decision are outlined below, and they form part of my final 
decision.
Requirements
There were various rules in place that ICFs advisor had to follow. One was the 
presumption of unsuitability  essentially, the starting position being that advice to 
transfer from an OPS is unsuitable; and only becomes suitable if the advisor can show 
that transferring is in the consumer's best interests.
When it responded to the complaint ICF asserted that the advice was suitable because 
Mr F could improve his range/choice/flexibility of the benefits by transferring. I didnt think 
that necessarily made the advice suitable  that would only be the case if the overall 
advice was in Mr Fs best interests. Similarly, I thought the general thrust of ICFs 
argument was that its advice was suitable because it matched Mr Fs objectives. I didnt 
think that necessarily made the advice suitable either as what Mr F wanted might not 
have been in his best interests. Ultimately, if it was in Mr Fs best interests to not 
transfer, that should have been the advice given. And if Mr F then wanted to proceed 
against the advice that was his prerogative.
Other rules required the advisor to provide a TVAS report and to discuss this with Mr F in 
simple terms; and to explain the loss of fixed benefits and the transfer of risk from the 
OPS  including the extent to which benefits may fall short of replicating the OPS.
There was also a general requirement for the advisor to provide suitable advice.
Key evidence
There were various pieces of evidence which I thought were important in deciding this 
complaint:
oa video recording of the first meeting between Mr F and the advisor
othe advisors recommendation report dated 21 February 2017
oa video recording of the second meeting between Mr F and the advisor
othe TVAS report sent to Mr F in September 2017
othe second recommendation report.
Issue to decide
The advisor gave Mr F various warnings that if he transferred the OPS he would be 
giving up a guaranteed pension. He also said that if the tax-free cash and the annual 
pension Mr F would get from his OPS was sufficient, and if he wasnt concerned about 
taking a higher amount of tax-free cash or having the flexibility of taking income when he 
liked, then he would say to stay in the OPS.
However, the advisor did advise Mr F to transfer. So the issue for me to decide was 
whether that advice was suitable; and if it wasnt, what ICF needed to do to put matters 
right.
The advice
The starting point was the presumption of unsuitability. So, the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable unless ICF could show that transferring was in Mr Fs best interests.
Key indicators of whether a transfer is suitable are often the consumers attitude to risk, 
their capacity for risk (including how much of their total pension provision the transfer 
represents), and the growth required to match the benefits being given up (known as the 
critical yield).
ICF queried the emphasis placed on the critical yield as it felt it was only relevant if Mr F 
was looking to match the OPS benefits  which wasnt the case here. The main (if not 
only) purpose of a pension is to provide a consumer with a regular income in their 
retirement. Its not, for example, to act as a type of life insurance policy in order to 
provide benefit for a consumers spouse or children. A defined benefit pension has 
valuable guaranteed retirement benefits that are usually unwise to give up. So I thought 
the critical yield was an important factor to consider in deciding whether advice to move 
away from the OPS was. I didnt think its importance was determined by whether 
matching the benefits of the OPS was Mr Fs objective. It was also a requirement for the 
advisor to have outlined the extent to which the SIPP might fall short of replicating the 
OPS.The advisor gave Mr F various warnings during the first meeting and in the first 
recommendation report about him giving up a guaranteed pension if he transferred. But 
he never said how much the SIPP needed to grow to match the OPS. Nothing of this 
nature was sent to Mr F until after the second meeting. And the advisor never explained 
to Mr F precisely how worse off he would/could be in respect of his expected pension 
income.
The TVAS showed that the growth needed in order to match Mr Fs OPS was nearly 
20%. The advisor recognised that the SIPP was unlikely to achieve this  he referred to 
expected growth of 3% to 4%. But he said he wasnt trying to match the existing benefits 
as Mr F had other objectives/reasons to transfer. I thought it was virtually guaranteed 
that Mr F would be worse off with the SIPP as it was extremely unlikely that the 
investments would grow anywhere near the required amount in order to match (let alone 
exceed) the guaranteed benefits he was giving up.
In respect of Mr Fs attitude to risk and his capacity for loss, I thought it was significant 
that there were only a few years until he planned to retire and the OPS was his main 
source of retirement income. The plan with the SIPP was for the majority of the funds to 
remain invested after retirement so they would be susceptible to potential losses going 
forward. Although Mr F had other savings and assets, I wasnt persuaded that he had the 
capacity to lose a significant part of the pension if there was a downturn in the markets. 
There was no such risk with the OPS.
In respect of the benefits Mr F could receive from the SIPP, the first recommendation 
report said he would likely receive more benefits from the OPS if he lived beyond his 90s 
(because with the SIPP the funds could run out due to Mr F taking regular income over 
the years). In my opinion, this gave the impression that unless Mr F lived into his 90s he 
would be better off with the SIPP. I didnt think that was necessarily the case because 
the returns on the investment would determine how much income Mr F was able to 
withdraw and how long the funds would last. The report didnt make it clear that if Mr F 
lived into his 90s, his funds could run out by then or he might have to reduce his income. 
And if that happened there wouldnt be any (or would be very little) death benefits left.
There were some potential benefits to Mr F in transferring, particular given his objectives 
eg the death benefits were such that he could pass his pension onto his wife and sons; 
there was flexibility in how he could use his pension funds (eg drawing down different 
amounts when needed); and he could take a larger amount of tax-free cash as a lump 
sum. However, given the overall risks involved and the fact Mr F would almost certainly 
be worse off, I wasnt persuaded those benefits were sufficient to make giving up the 
guaranteed benefits he already had advisable.
I also couldnt see that any other potential options were even explored. For example, if 
Mr F wanted to ensure some money was left to his sons upon his death a life insurance 
policy was a potential option. Also, while the death benefit would have been significant if 
Mr F died a few years after retirement, his pension pot would have decreased every 
year as he withdrew income and due to charges. So that would have reduced the 
amount that could have been passed on. I didnt see anything showing that this was 
properly explained.
I therefore concluded that the advice Mr F received was unsuitable. I wasnt persuaded 
that it was in his best interests to transfer out of his OPS in order to have a similar or less 
income over the years with little chance to be able to receive more, in order to have 
flexibility that might have been attractive but I couldnt see was shown that he actually needed, and/or in order to have death benefits which he could have obtained by other 
means.
I nevertheless commented on some of the specific points Mr F had raised:
oI thought hed been given sufficient information during the two meetings and in 
written documents (eg the recommendation reports) about the costs involved
oalthough the advisor made no formal recommendation one way or the other, I 
thought he sufficiently explained to Mr F that he didnt need to take all the tax-free 
cash in one go, and he could take smaller amounts as and when he needed to
oI thought the assessment of his attitude to risk was fair given the answers 
provided to the relevant questions, and that the overall portfolio of the 
investments fairly matched that risk profile
oI hadnt seen anything which persuaded me that the advisor told him transferring 
pensions would be more beneficial and/or that hed receive a bigger pension.
Would Mr F have acted differently if suitable advice had been given?
My conclusion that the advice was unsuitable wasnt enough on its own for me to uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. I needed to consider whether the advice disadvantaged him.
Mr F said he should have remained in his OPS and that his pension wont now be as 
secure as it would have been had he done so. That might be indeed might be the case; 
however, I needed to look at the situation as it was at the time  including Mr Fs state of 
mind.
I thought Mr F went to the first meeting with the intention of transferring away from his 
OPS. I said this because virtually the first thing discussed was the process if Mr F 
wanted to transfer. Mr F also said towards the end of the meeting that hed thought it out 
[previously] and what had been discussed hadnt altered his opinion from before the 
meeting, and he still wanted to transfer.
Mr F also gave clear reasons during the first meeting why he wanted to transfer, eg:
orecent events (including a health scare and a close friend who had retired a year 
ago recently dying) had led to him being concerned that his OPS built up over 37 
years would be lost as it couldnt be passed on when he and his wife died
ohe wanted to help his sons get on the property ladder
oif anything happened to him and his wife he wanted his sons to benefit from the 
pension, rather than it disappearing.
Relatively early in the first meeting Mr F said if the transfer wasnt going to work from 
ICFs point of view he was happy to stay in the OPS as it was a good scheme. But he 
said if it was at all possible he would like to transfer. Towards the end he said the chance 
to pass the pension onto his sons was such a good thing and if there was a chance to do 
hed grasp it.
In order to decide whether the unsuitable advice disadvantaged him I needed to consider 
what Mr F most likely would have done had the advice been to not transfer. Mr F said 
that if hed been aware of the critical yield he wouldnt have transferred. However, given 
his feelings at the time  including his recent health scare, his friends death, and what I 
felt was a strong desire for his pension to be passed onto his sons when he and his wife 
died  I thought it was most likely that he would still have proceeded with the transfer.I therefore concluded that Mr F wasnt disadvantaged by the unsuitable advice as he 
most likely would have transferred his pension to the SIPP anyway. So I concluded that 
ICF didnt need to do/pay anything to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
ICF confirmed it had nothing else to add.
Mr F was disappointed with my provisional decision, particularly as hes aware of former 
colleagues in a similar situation to him who have received compensation after complaining to 
us. He believes ICF carried out a similar process on all these occasions whereby it advised 
to cash in on the high pension transfer values. In respect of his specific case he felt ICF 
used the increased death benefit option to legitimise the advice to transfer, but it didnt carry 
out any analysis in respect of what income his wife might need if he died and it made 
insufficient death benefit comparisons in order him to make a decision in this respect.
Mr F also said that, contrary to what Id concluded, he wouldnt have transferred if ICF had 
recommended that he not do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other complaints
Im aware of other complaints that some of Mr Fs former colleagues have brought to our 
Service, and Im aware of the outcomes weve reached in those cases. However, we 
consider each case on its own merits. So while we try to be consistent in our thinking (eg the 
application of certain rules or processes) it doesnt necessarily mean that the same outcome 
will be reached on all similar cases. Sometimes the smallest nuance can be the difference 
between a complaint being upheld or not upheld. And, to avoid any doubt, a decision made 
by one ombudsman on a case doesnt create a precedent for another ombudsman to follow 
on a separate case.
Mr Fs points
In my view, some of the points Mr F made in response to my provisional decision  eg the 
advice to cash in and the death benefits  related to the overall advice process and 
emphasised why he thought the advice was unsuitable. I concluded in my provisional 
decision that the advice ICF gave Mr F was unsuitable, and I gave reasons for why I reached 
that conclusion. ICF hasnt provided any arguments to counter my conclusion, so I dont 
think I need to comment further on this issue.
I will simply confirm my conclusion that for the reasons outlined above the advice Mr F 
received was unsuitable  because I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer out of 
his OPS in order to:
have a similar or less income over the years with little chance to be able to receive more
have flexibility that might have been attractive wasnt shown was needed, and/or
have death benefits which he could have obtained by other means.
The main point Mr F raised in response to my provisional conclusion was his comment that if 
ICF had recommended that he not transfer from his OPS then he wouldnt have done so.The critical point for me in deciding this type of complaint is Mr Fs intentions, thoughts, state 
of mind etc at the time of the advice  as opposed to a few years later having had the benefit 
of hindsight and advice from others (including his professional representative). Ive found the 
video recordings of the two meetings helpful in this respect. I dont want to repeat what Ive 
said above too much for the sake of it, but in my view:
Mr F went to the first meeting with a clear intention of transferring away from his OPS
he gave clear reasons why he wanted to transfer
he felt the chance to pass the pension benefits onto his sons was a good thing and he 
wanted to grasp that chance to do hed grasp it, and
his mind hadnt changed despite what had been discussed.
So despite what Mr F has said in response to my provisional decision, I conclude that if ICF 
had advised him to not transfer his OPS its most likely that he would still have done so. 
Accordingly, I conclude that Mr F wasnt disadvantaged by the unsuitable advice as the 
situation he now finds himself in is the same situation he would have been in anyway.
In closing, Ive noted Mr Fs comments in response to my provisional decision that based on 
the fact his former colleagues received compensation its likely that he was financially 
disadvantaged by transferring too. I dont necessarily disagree with Mr Fs comment  
although I havent seen anything to show that he has actually suffered a loss. However, this 
argument only becomes relevant to my decision if I conclude that Mr F would have done 
something different. But as thats not what I concluded, its not something Ive considered 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman