DRN-2644170
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt let him know that the interest rate was about 
to change on a savings account before he opened it.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr J went into an HSBC branch to get some advice on where to place 
the proceeds of his recent house sale, which amounted to over £100,000. Mr J was planning 
to buy another house in the next six to twelve months. So, he wanted to make sure he had 
easy access to the money.
Mr J says he was told to spread his money across several accounts and an online savings 
account would offer the best interest rates up to £50,000. Mr J then opened an online 
savings account with HSBC and deposited around £50,000 into it.
In January 2020, Mr J complained to HSBC that it hadnt told him the interest rates were 
about to drop at the time he opened the account. HSBC said it had contacted him in October 
2019 informing him of the change in interest rates and this would have shown the online 
savings account.
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He thought HSBC 
should have given Mr J clearer information about the interest rates when he opened the 
account. But he wasnt persuaded that Mr J would have acted differently if he had been 
given better information.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view. He said hed like HSBC to acknowledge that it 
failed to let him know the interest rates were changing. He said he wanted HSBC to 
compensate him £75 to cover the time hed put into raising the complaint and the interest he 
would have lost. Our investigator asked HSBC if it would be willing to pay Mr J the £75 hed 
asked for. HSBC said it didnt think an award was justifiable as it hadnt done anything 
wrong. 
As Mr J disagrees with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
HSBC has a responsibility to treat its customers fairly and communicate with them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
HSBC says it let Mr J know (as an existing customer) that the interest rates on some of its 
savings accounts would be lowered from mid-December 2019 on 4 October 2019. This was 
almost two months before Mr J visited the branch to discuss savings account options on 28 
November 2019. So, I wouldnt expect Mr J to have remembered this when he opened the 
account. But Ive also seen screenshots of HSBCs website from around the time Mr J 
opened the account. And I think the website makes it clear that the interest rate was going to 
be reduced from 18 December 2019. 
I dont have any notes to show me exactly what HSBC told Mr J in branch and its possible 
the information he received wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me that better information would have prevented Mr J opening the 
HSBC online savings account and transferring his funds into it. 
Mr J says he might have opened an account with another bank if hed realised the interest 
rates on HSBCs online savings account were about to go down. But hes also said that by 
the time he realised HSBCs interest rates had gone down, all the other banks interest rates 
had reduced too. Mr J has also told us that he needed to be able to access his money at 
short notice for when he found another house to buy. So, an account with a fixed interest 
rate wouldnt have met his needs. I can also see that Mr J transferred more than £40,000 
into his HSBC online saver account after hed complained to HSBC about the interest rate 
change. He didnt move money out of the account until March 2020, which is when hes told 
us he bought another property.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr J but having considered everything, I dont 
think hes lost out because of anything HSBC might have done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman