DRN-4108988
The complaint
Miss R complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our Investigator, for 
these reasons:
Miss R has said she is currently struggling financially, and that is what we should 
consider when deciding her complaint. While Im sorry to hear about Miss Rs 
circumstances, in cases like these, we need to base our decision on her financial 
circumstances at the point in time she was given credit and what Shop Direct ought 
to have known about them - if they carried out proportionate checks. So, while Ive 
noted what Miss R has said, I havent relied on her current circumstances to decide 
what was fair when she was initially offered credit or when her credit limit was 
increased.
Miss R applied for an account with Shop Direct in March 2021. And Shop Direct has 
sent us the information they were given by Miss R when she completed her 
application, and the information they obtained from credit referencing agencies 
(CRA). Having reviewed this, Ive seen they were told Miss R was self-employed with 
an annual income of approximately £25,000, and that she had around £2,000 of 
existing credit. Given her original credit limit was £500, as a starting point, I wouldnt 
say that was unreasonable based on the application data alone.
Miss R has now told us she wasnt working at the time she applied for her account. 
However, the evidence suggests that isnt what she told Shop Direct at the time. We 
would expect both parties to an agreement to act in good faith, so its disappointing to 
see that may not have been the case here. However, we have been unable to fully 
establish what Miss Rs financial circumstances were at the time she applied for the 
account or when her credit limit was increased because she has refused to provide 
us with copies of her bank statements from the time. Therefore, I cannot safely 
conclude that what Miss R is now telling us is accurate. I can only rely on the 
evidence weve been provided. And given the application data was collated at the 
time of lending, I consider that to carry the most weight when considering Miss Rs 
most likely circumstances at the time. 
Im aware Miss R had a CCJ at the time of the original lending, however I dont 
consider that alone is a reason to say Shop Direct should have declined her 
application. Having seen the info held by CRAs it seems Miss R was managing her 
accounts well, and there were no other adverse markers that ought to have made 
Shop Direct ask further questions. The same applies when Miss Rs credit limit was 
increased to £1,000 in October 2021 and £1,500 in May 2022. But even if they had 
asked additional questions, I cant say what they would have seen, as Miss R has 
failed to evidence this.
Shop Direct has explained they also would have reviewed Miss Rs account before 
increasing her credit limit. Having looked at the way Miss R managed her account, it 
appears she never exceeded her credit limit, made her repayments on time, and 
often made more than the minimum payment. This suggests Miss R was managing 
her account well. Therefore, I dont consider Shop Directs checks would have given 
them a reason to think increasing her credit limit would be unaffordable for Miss R  
or that further questions needed to be asked before doing so.
For the reasons above, while I know this isnt the outcome Miss R hoped for, Im not 
upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as very.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman