DRN-2926812
The complaint
Mr W complains about how JD Williams & Company Limited (Jacamo) dealt with his 
application for an account.
What happened
Mr W applied for an account with Jacamo.
Jacamo opened an account for Mr W. Mr W says it was opened with a £500 credit limit.
Mr W placed an order.
Shortly after Jacamo opened the account it closed it and cancelled Mr Ws order.
Jacamo said it had done nothing wrong. It said the account was opened with a £150 credit 
limit, but subject to credit scoring and verification checks. But Mr W failed its credit scoring 
and/or verification checks. This led to the account being correctly closed and Mr Ws order 
being correctly cancelled.
Mr W says that Jacamo:
discriminated against him, on a number of grounds
doesnt offer appropriate support for dyslexic or disabled people
impacted his credit file
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that Jacamo 
had done nothing wrong. And it had provided Mr W with the support she would expect.
Mr W didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me or review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that I agree with what the investigator has said.
Ive read and considered everything Mr W has told us. However, Ive restricted my decision 
to what I consider is important. So, if I havent mentioned something, its not because I 
havent read or considered it. Its just that I dont need to comment on it to fairly decide 
Mr Ws complaint.
Ive reviewed what both parties have provided. In my view what has been provided shows 
that:
Mr W was offered an account with a credit limit of £150, not £500
Mr W was made aware being given an account was subject to credit scoring and/or 
verification checks
Mr W failed Jacamos credit score and/or verification checks
Jacamo explained its decision to Mr W clearly
Jacamo declined Mr Ws application for fair and reasonable reasons
Mr W says he feels Jacamo has discriminated against him given the problems he 
experienced. I appreciate why Mr W feels this way but having reviewed all the evidence I 
dont think his medical conditions  or his nationality  played any part in Jacamos decision 
to close his account. And I dont believe Jacamo has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr W also says that Jacamo doesnt offer appropriate support for dyslexic or disabled 
people. Again, Ive read what both parties have provided. In my view what has been 
provided shows that:
each time Mr W called, Jacamo answered his questions and explained things clearly
Jacamo contacted Mr W when it said it would and in the way it said it would
Jacamo supported Mr W during both his application and his complaint 
I cant see that the opening and closing of an account would have had the effect Mr W says 
it had on his credit file. But even if it did, I cant see this was as a result of anything Jacamo 
did unfairly or unreasonably.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr W. But I cant see that Jacamo has 
done anything wrong in this case. However, I hope that it helps Mr W to know that someone 
impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman