DRN-2632199
The complaint
A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has declined its shop premises 
insurance policy claim for damage caused by a fire.
What happened
A owns and operates a takeaway restaurant. On a night in October 2019, the takeaway had 
operated as usual, serving customers until about 4.45am after which cleaning started. This 
included moving the chicken fryer to clean underneath and behind it. The proprietor left the 
premises at around 6am having followed all his usual routines. Two other employees 
remained on the premises for another 15 minutes before securing it and leaving. 
At around 11am a neighbour noticed smoke coming from the building and raised the alarm. 
The fire brigade attended an put out a significant fire. 
A made a claim to RSA under it shop premises policy for fire damage to the buildings, 
equipment and contents and for business interruption. RSA appointed a loss adjuster and a 
forensic expert to report on the source of the fire. 
The forensic expert attended the premises within the next couple of days to assess the 
damage and investigate how the fire had started. It reported to RSA that the fire had been 
caused by gas escaping from the supply to the chicken fryer which had been ignited by the 
pilot light to the chicken fryer which had been left lit. 
RSAs expert thought the gas leak was most likely due to mechanical damage to the supply 
hose or bayonet supply point caused by the repeated movement of the appliance (for 
cleaning). It was noted that the chicken fryer had a chain to connect it to the wall preventing 
it from coming too far forward when being cleaned (thereby risking the disconnection of the 
gas supply) but that the chain wasnt connected. And it said that if the mains gas supply to 
the chicken fryer had been isolated at the end of the working day then the leak couldve 
been avoided. 
RSA considered what its expert had reported against the policy terms and conditions. It told 
A that it wasnt able to indemnify it for the damage caused because A had breached a 
condition on the policy in relation to kitchen equipment and the breach was material to the 
loss. So, RSA said the claim was declined. 
A appointed a loss assessor and challenged RSAs decision by way of complaint. RSA 
reconsidered the claim but maintained its view that a policy condition had been breached so 
it didnt uphold As complaint. 
A complained to this service and one of our investigators looked into its complaint but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld.The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As policy contains the following condition:
All cooking equipment is not left unattended when the heat source is operating and the 
power or fuel supply to such equipment is shut off outside working hours.
A says the power (by which it means the electricity supply) was turned off. That may be but it 
seems that the heat source to the chicken fryer  namely gas  was still connected and 
therefore operating. Its not in dispute that the gas supply wasnt shut off. I understand 
theres a mains shut off switch that would isolate the entire gas supply to the premises and a 
secondary switch that would isolate the gas supply to the kitchen equipment. I also 
understand neither were engaged on the night of the fire. 
And the control valve for the gas burner for the chicken fryer had three settings  off, pilot 
and on. RSAs forensic expert found it had been left in the pilot position. A says one of its 
employees must have inadvertently not turned the gas burner completely round to its off 
position. So, it says, it shouldnt be punished by RSA because it had attempted to comply 
with the condition. But the point of the condition is to require all the equipment to be attended 
when the heat source is operating. Here the heat source was operating yet no-one was in 
attendance. 
But for the gas leak and but for the pilot light being left on the fire would not have occurred. 
So, As failure to disconnect the gas when the premises were empty led to the fire that 
caused the loss. By leaving the heat source connected the risk of fire increased. 
Unfortunately, it is As responsibility to ensure compliance with the condition. On this 
occasion, I cant see that it did. 
Ive thought about As argument that the condition only required it to switch off the fuel or the 
power. And that since it unplugged the chicken fryer from the mains electricity it complied 
with the condition. But that is the second part of the condition, the first part of it requires that 
the cooking equipment isnt left unattended whilst the heat source is operating. And Ive set 
out above why I thought the heat source was operating (without the mandatory attendance) 
so that this part of the condition wasnt complied with.
Whilst I have every sympathy with the situation in which A finds itself, I cant reasonably find 
that RSA has unfairly declined its claim. Taking all the circumstances into account, Im 
unable to uphold As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman