DRN-2945806
The complaint
Mr R has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R contacted AXA to make a claim for a lost wedding ring. AXA accepted the claim and 
said it would replace the ring through its personal jewellery service. Mr R said he didnt want 
AXA to provide the replacement ring, so AXA said it could provide vouchers to the value of 
£1,400.59. However, Mr R wanted the claim to be settled in cash.
Mr R complained to AXA. When AXA replied, it said its offer was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and that it hadnt been possible to substantiate the wedding ring, so it 
had valued the ring at the base level.
When Mr R complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
the way AXA proposed to settle the claim was in line with terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy said:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot replace or 
repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including 
vouchers and / or store cards). Where we can offer repair or replacement through a 
preferred supplier, but we agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment 
will not exceed the amount we would have paid the preferred supplier, if no equivalent 
replacement is available then we will pay the full replacement cost of the item with no 
discount applied.
AXA said it would replace the ring through its preferred supplier. So, Ive looked at whether 
the replacement offered was equivalent to the one Mr R lost. Mr R provided the details of a 
similar ring available through a high street jeweller. Looking at those details and comparing 
those with the replacement AXA offered, Im satisfied it offered a suitable replacement. 
Mr R didnt want to accept the replacement ring and instead wanted a cash settlement for 
the amount it would cost him to replace the ring himself. So, Ive thought about this as well. 
AXAs policy said that where it chose to replace an item through its preferred supplier, if it 
instead paid cash or a cash equivalent, it would only pay the amount it would have paid its 
preferred supplier. When Mr R said he didnt want AXA to replace the ring, AXA offered Mr R 
vouchers, which it was entitled to do under the policy. The amount AXA offered in vouchers 
was based on the amount it would have paid its preferred supplier if it replaced the ring itself. 
So, Im satisfied that AXAs offer to pay Mr R £1,400.59 in vouchers was reasonable. 
Whether AXA replaced the ring or provided vouchers, it was able to get a discount from its 
suppliers. So, the cost to AXA of replacing the ring through its preferred supplier was less 
than the amount shown on the suppliers website. AXA would also pay less for the vouchers 
than the face value of them. This is because insurers are often able to obtain discounts 
through their suppliers, as was the case here. So, if AXA were to pay a cash settlement at 
the level Mr R wanted, it would cost it more than it would pay its suppliers to replace the ring 
or to provide vouchers.
Im also aware that when AXA replied to Mr Rs complaint it said it had offered him cash, 
when it had actually offered him a cash equivalent, vouchers. However, I dont think this 
committed AXA to paying a cash settlement and at the amount Mr R wanted it to be paid.
Mr R has also said AXA was offering him options that meant he had to replace the ring 
online, which wasnt how he chose to buy jewellery. AXA confirmed that its personal 
jewellery service could visit Mr R in his home. However, Mr R said he didnt want the 
company to visit his home, in part for privacy reasons and also because of government 
restrictions in place at the time. 
I can understand that Mr R might prefer not to meet with the jewellery service in his home, 
but AXA made that option available to him, which meant Mr R did have a choice about 
whether to buy the ring online. I also havent seen anything to suggest the appointment had 
to take place when restrictions were still in place. AXA has also confirmed that the jewellery 
service could meet with Mr R elsewhere, such as someone elses home or an office, so long 
as it is a secure place, as they would have valuable items with them. The vouchers AXA 
offered were for use in high street jewellers and could be used in a store. So, Im satisfied 
that AXA hasnt limited Mr R to only replacing the ring online.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that AXAs offer to settle Mr Rs claim for the 
ring was reasonable in the circumstances. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman