DRN-3753576
The complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account and subsequent credit limit increases that 
she couldnt afford.
What happened
In March 2005 Ms D applied for a credit card account with Barclaycard. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £900. There were some increases and decreases to the credit limit over 
the years. A summary of the increases follows: 
March 2011 - Credit limit increased to £1,500
October 2011 - Credit limit increased to £2,500
June 2012 - Credit limit increased to £4,000
January 2013 - Credit limit increased to £6,400
August 2013 - Credit limit increased to £8,400
The credit limit was also decreased on four occasions between January 2008 and April
2017.
In 2021, Ms D complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms D didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Ds complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. Its not 
easy to determine affordability so long after the credit and credit increases were given, 
especially as neither side has any evidence from the time. In particular, Ms D has not been 
able to provide her bank statements from the times the credit was given or increased. 
Barclaycard has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. Its possible 
that Barclaycard failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms D with credit. But if 
thats true, that doesnt mean the lending was automatically irresponsible. 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, and particularly in the absence 
of any extra evidence from Ms D to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think 
that more thorough affordability checks would have led Barclaycard to think that the credit 
it provided Ms D was unreasonable. 
I know that Ms D will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties she has faced in her personal life. But I want Ms D to know that I considered all 
the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman