DRN-2478736
The complaint
 Mr A is unhappy because Assurant General Insurance Limited trading as Assurant 
Solutions (Assurant) has requested specific documents in relation to a damaged mobile 
phone claim which he believes is unfair. 
What happened
 Mr A has a current account with a bank. Included with this is a Teck pack providing cover 
for his mobile phone. In July 2020, he submitted a claim for his damaged mobile phone. 
Mr A said his phone dropped and the screen was damaged. Assurant has requested certain 
documents before it can assess the claim. It has neither accepted nor declined the claim. 
Mr A is unhappy Assurant has requested these documents as when he made a previous 
claim in February 2020, it accepted and paid for it. 
Assurant asked Mr A to send identification such as a driving licence, proof of address such 
as a utility bill dated in the last three months, a full bank statement and proof of purchase of 
the phone. As Mr A provided a copy of his driving licence and his tenancy agreement in his 
previous claim, he sent the same documents for this claim. Assurant didnt accept these and 
has asked for some additional information for this claim. 
Unhappy with Assurant, Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into it. He thought it wasnt unreasonable that Assurant request proof of address. But looking 
at Mr As individual circumstances, the investigator thought the driving licence, the tenancy 
agreement and the bank statement were all addressed the same and were sufficient 
therefore proof of address. He said Assurant should accept these documents as proof of 
address and that was fair and reasonable. 
Assurant has also asked for proof of purchase. Mr A says he swapped the phone hes 
claiming for with a friend and therefore doesnt have proof of purchase. Assurant asked Mr A 
to provide proof of purchase from his friend and a transfer of ownership letter, but Mr A 
hasnt been able to provide this. Assurant says he also hadnt registered this phone on the 
policy as the IMEI number is a different phone. It says it would still like to see proof of 
purchase of the phone but accepted the investigators findings that the documents Mr A has 
sent for proof of address are sufficient in the circumstances. Mr A hasnt been able to 
provide evidence of proof of purchase and say its unreasonable for Assurant to request this 
from him for it to agree to pay the claim. 
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The key issue I need to decide is whether the documentation Assurant has requested is in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether that seems fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint. 
The relevant section in the policy for proof of ownership states:
We need to know that the device, SIM card and accessories you are claiming for are 
yours. Therefore, you may need to provide some form of proof of ownershipWe 
may ask to see something that tells us that the items you are claiming for belong to 
you. 
For mobile phones, this confirms: - make, model, memory size, colour and IMEI 
number of your mobile phone. It should also be on the documentation that came 
with your mobile phone when you purchased it...For devices which make and receive 
calls, your airtime provider may also be able to provide it to youProof of ownership 
could include a till receipt or documentation from your airtime providerIf you dont 
have any proof of ownership we may decline your claim.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions, I dont think its unreasonable for Assurant to 
request proof of ownership of the phone. While I appreciate that Mr A might not have 
provided this for his previous claim, the circumstances are different. The damaged mobile 
phone hes claiming for hasnt been registered so theres no corresponding IMEI number and 
no make, model, memory size etc. There isnt any way for Assurant to know that the mobile 
phone belongs to Mr A without having the evidence to support that he is the owner of that 
phone. In the absence of this, I can see its difficult for Assurant to assess the claim. Mr A 
hasnt been able to provide any alternative documents to show hes the owner of the phone 
either. 
As such, looking at this overall, I think Assurant has acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and I dont think the request of proof of ownership is unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Putting things right
Assurant has said it accepts the proof of address documents Mr A has provided. It still 
requires proof of ownership of the mobile phone from Mr A which I dont think is unfair or 
unreasonable. If Mr A can provide this, Assurant will assess the claim and I think that is 
appropriate. I dont think Assurant needs to do anything further until then.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr As complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited trading as Assurant Solutions
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman