DRN-3657000
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down her 
business interruption insurance claim after she closed her business premises due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr J, a loss assessor, has brought the complaint on Mrs Cs behalf.
What happened
Mrs C held a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox. She is a medical 
professional with a private practice.
After government restrictions due to Covid-19 were first introduced in March 2020, she says 
she wasnt required to close but her professional body only allowed her to treat patients who 
had a high medical risk or were in urgent need of treatment. Mrs C said she only treated 
patients with routine conditions. Mrs C closed her practice until 1 June 2020. 
Mrs C claimed on the policy for her business interruption losses.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pursued a business interruption insurance test 
case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different 
types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court 
handed down its judgment in January 2021. Hiscox subsequently reviewed Mrs Cs claim in 
light of the judgment but maintained that cover didnt apply in her circumstances. It said her 
losses werent covered under the policy because government regulations hadnt prevented 
Mrs C from using her premises.
Mrs C brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. She thought Hiscox had declined the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs C asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said shed had to comply with the 
instructions of her professional body regarding what treatment she could offer. She thought 
the professional body should be classed as equivalent to a public body for the purpose of 
the policy wording.
Mr J pointed out that Mrs C had been prevented from accessing the premises for the 
discrete purpose of routine treatment which he thought should be covered by her policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. 
The policy covers business interruption caused by:
4. your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority following:
a.a murder or suicide;
b.an occurrence of a notifiable human disease;
c.injury or illness of any person traceable to food or drink consumed on the premises;
d.vermin or pests at the premises.
The most relevant of these is b. So, for this term to provide cover, the interruption to 
Mrs Cs health care practice would need to be as a result of her inability to use the 
insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following an 
occurrence of any notifiable human disease.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease.
In my opinion, Mrs C falls into the category of businesses listed in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to 
the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 as other 
medical and health services. The regulations expressly permitted these businesses to 
remain open. 
In the test case the Supreme Court said at paragraph 116  restrictions imposed by a 
public authority would be understood as ordinarily meaning mandatory measures 
imposed by the authority pursuant to its statutory or other legal powers. Imposed 
connotes compulsion and a public authority exercises compulsion through the use of 
such powers. We would not, however, accept that a restriction must always have the 
force of law before it can fall within this description.
I think a reasonable person would understand the words restrictions imposed by a public 
authority as an instruction which has to be complied with. The test case gives the example 
of a public health officer giving an instruction to close a restaurant immediately after 
discovering vermin in it with the legal order to close the restaurant following later. 
The Supreme Court went on to say, at paragraph 136 of the judgment:  an inability of use 
has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use. 
In paragraph 144 of the judgment referring to the inability to use wording in the policy, the 
Supreme Court said: it must be an inability to use rather than hindrance or disruption. It is 
likely that it will be difficult for Category 3 and Category 5 businesses which were allowed to 
remain open to demonstrate the requisite inability.
From what Mrs C has said, she feels her business was impacted because of restrictions 
on the type of treatment she could carry out which had been imposed by her professional 
body.
To practice in Mrs Cs profession, you must be registered with the Health and Care 
Professions Council in the UK (HCPC). However, membership of the professional body 
referred to by Mrs C is optional. That body describes itself as a membership body and a 
trade union. It offers a range of services to its members including insurance cover for professional indemnity and other risks. It is also an independent trade union which 
(amongst other things) negotiates pay and conditions of service within the NHS.
Ive looked at what Mrs Cs professional body told its members in 2020. On 25 March it 
said:
Whilst your clinic can remain open, we continue to advise that you treat those 
who have a high risk or urgent  need only and not to treat low  risk routine 
patients.
On 27 March it said:
We would like to reassure members that all our guidance which we have issued recently 
has been written in line with legislation, UK Government advice, WHO guidance and 
TUC support.
That suggests to me that Mrs Cs professional body wasnt a public body imposing 
restrictions but rather it analysed, interpreted and communicated to its members the 
effect of government restrictions and advice.
Mr J has drawn my attention to a note to members issued by the same professional body 
on 16 April 2020. That referred to concerns that some members were working as 
normal, including not screening/triaging their patients and not spreading their 
appointments out to avoid cross over as much as possible. It went on to say that 
members must follow government, HCPC and its guidelines at all times and if they failed 
to do so, they might be putting their insurance and registration at risk. It seems to me that 
this was more to do with measures designed to reduce the spread of Covid-19 in the 
workplace as opposed to restrictions which would have led to Mrs C being unable to use 
her business premises.
I dont accept Mr Js point that Mrs C was prevented from accessing the premises for the 
discrete purpose of routine treatment. As explained above, I dont think there was a 
mandatory instruction given by a public authority which prevented Mrs C from using her 
premises for a discrete part of her business.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mrs C. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Hiscox to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman