DRN-1616374
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained about esure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it valued 
his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T made a claim under his car insurance policy and esure looked to settle the claim, but 
he wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. So, Mr T complained to esure and it eventually 
increased its offer to £1,160 (less his policy excess). It made a small deduction for pre-
existing damage but felt its market value offer was fair. But Mr T remained unhappy and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
esure had acted reasonably in valuing Mr Ts car. But as Mr T didnt agree the matter has 
been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ts position, as he clearly feels his car is worth a lot more than esure 
have offered him. And he feels the way esure has valued his car has left him out of pocket. 
Mr T has also questioned the way our investigator looked into his complaint and how he 
approached the case generally.
But this service has an established approach to valuation cases. When looking at the 
valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach they have 
adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. It isnt the role of 
this service to come to an exact valuation for a consumers car. 
But we do look to see if insurers have acted fairly in looking to offer a market value of the 
car. I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised. The condition of the car at the time of the 
incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a 
business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr T doesnt agree with this approach. He feels the trade guides arent accurate and 
his car is worth about £600 more than esure has offered him. He has highlighted that his car 
had new tyres and a recent MOT. But he hasnt provided any evidence in support of his 
position that his car is worth more than esure has offered. And the trade guide valuations 
work on the basis that a car is in a good roadworthy condition so the additional points he has 
raised, about new tyres and MOT, wouldnt add to the overall valuation. I have looked at the trade guide valuations and some advertisements myself. And having done so I cant 
conclude esures offer is unreasonable as they are in line with the offer esure has made.
I can see esure made a small deduction for some pre-existing damage, but this was in line 
with our general approach and didnt affect the approximate valuation of the car. So, I think 
esure acted reasonably here.
Finally, Mr T feels he should be paid an additional amount as he had a tow-bar attached to 
the car. But Im satisfied this didnt add any real value to the overall valuation of Mr Ts car 
and that esure have considered this. I know Mr T feels he should be paid extra as he feels it 
is an additional piece of equipment. But he hasnt provided any evidence that he paid for the 
tow-bar and paid to have it fitted. And esure have said Mr T was free to remove the tow-bar 
before it scrapped the car if he wished. Mr T feels he wouldnt have been able to do this, but 
he could have got a professional to do it for him if he wished. Plus, Mr T feels he has paid a 
higher premium to cover the cost of having the tow-bar. But esure has shown that Mr T has 
paid a lower premium as he had a tow-bar on the car, so Im not persuaded by his argument 
here. 
So, Im satisfied esure has looked to value his car in a fair and reasonable way and looked to 
pay him the market value of his car (less the policy excess) in line with his policy terms and 
conditions
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman