DRN-4233124
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd allowed his current account to go overdrawn and this 
resulted in unfair fees and charges, and a default being applied. Mr C says that Monzo Bank 
Ltd then closed his account.
What happened
Mr C had booked a flight using his debit card, but subsequently cancelled the booking. The 
merchant refunded the amount of the flight to Mr Cs account but did so before it actually 
debited the payment. In the meantime, Mr C used the credit on his account and when the 
debit was finally presented by the merchant his account became overdrawn. Monzo later 
closed Mr Cs account and registered a default. Mr C complained to Monzo and asked that it 
refund the interest it had charged while the account had remained open and remove the 
default applied to the account. Mr C asked that Monzo re-open his account.
In its final response to the complaint Monzo said it should reasonably have defaulted the 
account in January 2021. Monzo said it had corrected the information it had provided to the 
credit reference agencies and had refunded the overdraft fees and charges it had added to 
the account after January 2021. Monzo accepted its error in not defaulting the account when 
it should have, and said its poor communication about the subsequent closure of the account 
as this confused Mr C. To reflect this, and several gaps Monzo identified in its service, 
Monzo offered to pay Mr C £150.
Mr C brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and thought that Monzo did delay the default of the account, but that as it 
has put this right and refunded all the fees after the correct default date, it didnt need to do 
anything else in this regard. The Investigator thought that the £150 Monzo offered to pay Mr 
C was a fair and reasonable remedy for the confusion the letter it sent Mr c about the 
account closure would have caused.
Mr C asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C will be disappointed but for very much the same reasons provided by 
our Investigator Im satisfied that although Monzo got some things wrong, it wasnt 
responsible for the account going overdrawn, and it took reasonable steps to correct the 
date the default was registered. Monzo also offered to pay Mr C £150 for the confusion it 
communication caused him. In the circumstances of this case, I this is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to Mr Cs complaint and I will now explain why.
Mr C went into an unauthorised overdraft when the merchant dealing with Mr Cs fight 
booking refunded the amount Mr C paid before submitting the debit. This is unusual, but it 
would have been unreasonable for Monzo not to allow the debit as it had already received 
the refund. Its unfortunate that Mr C didnt realise this is what happened and used the credit 
balance, but this didnt happen because of an error by Monzo.
Monzo and Mr C have provided evidence of on-line chats and other correspondence that 
support Mr C was made aware that his account was in an unauthorised overdraft from 30 
August 2019 and put him on notice that this could have an impact on his credit file. Mr C told 
Monzo several times that he was struggling to get together funds to repay the overdraft and 
Monzo allowed Mr C a number of extensions to clear the overdraft. Mr C then asked for 
further time but Monzo said it was unable to extend the agreement any further and warned 
that failure to repay could lead to a default and an account closure. Monzo asked Mr C for 
details of his personal circumstances so that it could consider any further support it could 
offer and provided links to the Money Advice Service. 
When Mr C then asked for further time, Monzo explained to Mr C that if he didnt settle the 
balance within two months of entering into unarranged overdraft, his account will eventually 
be closed, and it would need to tell credit reference agencies that the account has defaulted. 
Monzo also explained that once the account is closed Mr C wouldnt be charged any more 
overdraft fees and he would receive messages about settling the outstanding balance on the 
closed account. Mr C explained he expected to be in a position to repay the overdraft by 5 
February 2020. Monzo set this plan up but made it clear that if the overdraft wasnt paid off 
the account would be defaulted. Taking all of this into account, I think that up until early 
2020, Monzo showed forbearance and took reasonable steps to support Mr C.
Unfortunately, shortly after February 2020, the UK went into lockdown and UK banks were 
provided with guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to support individuals by 
deferring any action to recover debts. Monzo continued to communicate with Mr C, but 
Monzo has already accepted that regardless of the Covid pandemic it should have taken 
further action by the end of 2020 and should reasonably have defaulted the account by 1 
January 2021. I think is fair and reasonable in view of the guidance issued by the FCA and it 
reflects that Monzo tried to support Mr C in late 2019 and during 2020. 
Monzo finally closed Mr Cs account in July 2022 but has already confirmed it has since 
corrected the default date on the account with the credit reference agencies to I January 
2021. Monzo has also refunded the interest and charges it applied to Mr Cs account after 
this date. In my opinion this is a fair and reasonable remedy for this part of the complaint as I 
cant reasonably say Monzo shouldnt have reported the account as defaulted. Mr C had 
been made aware this would happen if he didnt repay the outstanding balance. I think it also 
takes into account the unprecedented circumstances of the Covid pandemic period. 
Ive noted Mr Cs comments that Monzo hasnt taken into account restrictions on fixed fees 
and higher charges for unarranged overdrafts from April 2020. However, Im satisfied that 
Monzos fee structure changed in April 2020 and removed the daily charge it would have 
applied before this date.
Monzo told Mr C several times that it would close his account after 60 days. Mr C says at the 
time his account was closed it was still well within 60 days of an email he received saying he 
had 60 days to cover the negative balance. I dont think the repetition of the 60 days 
deadline in Monzos updates was helpful to Mr C and is likely to have caused him some 
confusion. However, Monzo was entitled to close the account if the overdraft balance hadnt 
paid off within 60 days. In my opinion Monzo made this clear in previous communication with 
Mr C and I think it would be unfair for me to tell Monzo it should re-open the account. In this 
regard, Monzo recognised its communication about the 60-day notification would have 
caused Mr C some confusion and I think the offer to pay Mr C £150 to reflect this is a fair 
and reasonable one in this case.My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mr C £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman