DRN-4451062
The complaint
Mr G and Mr M are complaining that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt covered a claim they 
made on a block commercial property insurance policy for rent theyve lost after a flat they 
own the leasehold on was damaged. 
What happened
In June 2022 a fire caused damage to a flat Mr G and Mr M own the leasehold on and had 
rented out. The fire also damaged the building. A claim was made on the block commercial 
property insurance policy provided by AXA. Mr G and Mr M made a claim for rent theyve 
lost as their tenant had to move out. AXA initially covered the first three months rental, but 
then said that there wasnt cover for their lost rent. So AXA declined to cover any further lost 
rent. Mr G and Mr M didnt think this was fair and referred their complaint to this Service.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr G and Mr Ms complaint in a lot 
less detail than theyve presented it. Mr G and Mr M have raised a number of reasons about 
why theyre unhappy with the way AXA has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each 
and every point theyve raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key 
points I need to think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service. I assure Mr G and Mr M, however, that I have read and 
considered everything theyve provided. 
Mr G and Mr M are unhappy that AXA has declined to cover the claim for their loss of rent. 
AXA says the policy doesnt cover it. Ive first thought about what the terms of the policy say: 
Rent  The Basis of Settlement of Claims
the insurer(s) will pay in respect of buildings which have suffered damage
a) the loss of rent being
the actual amount of the reduction in the rent receivable by the insured during the indemnity 
period solely in consequence of the damage.
So the policy covers rent that the insured would have received, but for the damage suffered 
during the time the building was being repaired. So the question for me to decide is whether 
Mr G and Mr M fall within the definition of the insured.
The terms and conditions dont specifically define the insured but I think they should be 
read alongside the schedule and certificate of insurance. And, in fact, the terms do say: 
The Insurer(s) Liability
If the Insured described in the Schedule comprises more than one insured party each 
operating as a separate and distinct entity then cover hereunder shall apply in the same 
manner and to the same extent as if individual policies had been issued to each Insured 
party.
I think a reasonable interpretation of this is that the insured is to be those set out to be the 
insured on the schedule of insurance. And these specifically say the insured is the 
freeholder of the building  who I shall refer to as C. Im also conscious that the policy sets 
out the following:
5. Other Interests
The interest of any freeholders lessors lessees licencees underlessees assignees 
mortgagees financiers lenders receivers tenants and occupiers are noted in this Policy it  
being understood that the details of such parties will be notified as soon as reasonably 
practicable to the Insurer(s) in the event of any claim arising under this Policy.
Mr G and Mr M are a lessee of the freeholder in that they own the leasehold of the flat. But 
the terms of the policy specifically notes that they have an interest in the claim  in that they 
may be impacted by any claim the insured party may make. But this doesnt mean they  
would be considered to be the insured on the policy and I think the language of this clause 
is such that it sets out that they arent. And there isnt anything to say that any party, other 
than C, would be considered the insured under the policy.
Ultimately, this insurance is intended to cover Cs risks and potential losses  namely 
damage to the building and any losses C may incur. Its not intended to cover any financial 
losses, other than damage to their flat, Mr G and Mr M, other than damage to their flat, may 
incur. This isnt unusual for such a policy. 
Regarding loss of rent, the policy essentially covers any loss of rent C may incur  such as 
loss of ground rent. I cant reasonably conclude that the way the policy is written could  
reasonably be read that the policy covers rent that all leaseholders may incur.
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr G and Mr M have found themselves in and its 
clear they have lost out significantly as a result of whats happened. But, as I dont think I  
can reasonably say it was unfair for AXA to say the policy doesnt cover Mr G and Mr Ms 
loss of rent.
Mr G and Mr M didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said, given that AXA made 
an initial payment of three months rent, it could be argued that it admitted liability for loss of 
rent under the insurance claim. And they asked if I would consider awarding a further 
payment as a goodwill payment. They said the property was uninhabitable for 10 months as 
a result of the fire for ten months but theyve only been paid three months rent. They said 
AXA took a significant amount of time (around six months) before contractors started on the 
reinstatement works.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr G and Mr Ms comments, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my 
provisional decision. Theyve asked that I award a goodwill gesture given theyve lost out 
significantly due to the property being unoccupied. I recognise theyve lost out significantly 
because of the fire and I sympathise with this. But I can only reasonably require AXA to cover any losses theyve incurred if theyre covered under the terms of the policy or are due 
to something AXA did wrong. And I also have to recognise that they received three months 
rent at the start that they werent entitled to under the terms of the insurance policy.
Mr G and Mr M have suggested that AXA paying loss of rent at first means its admitted 
liability towards covering their lost rent. But paying the rent was a mistake AXA made and 
doesnt change the terms of the insurance policy. Ultimately, the policy doesnt cover loss of 
rent for leaseholders, which isnt unusual for this type of policy. And I cant reasonably 
require AXA to pay anything further.
Finally, I note that theyve commented it took AXA around six months before repair works 
were started. But they havent previously raised concerns about the way AXA has handled 
the actual damage claim as part of this complaint. So I cant consider this in this decision 
and theyll need to raise this with AXA directly if they want to take this further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman