DRN-3904102
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr S received two large payments into his account from an individual. Mr S 
then quickly spent the money with large bank transfers and the maximum allowed cash 
withdrawals in the following days.
In June 2020, the sender reported the payments as fraudulent. They explained theyd paid 
Mr S to make bets on their behalf. They said that over the weeks that followed, Mr S assured 
them that hed made profitable bets for them, but he refused to give them proof of the bets or 
send them the winnings. Eventually, they realised theyd been defrauded.
Mr S said hed been running a tips line, where customers would phone him for betting 
advice. He said he didnt place any bets, the customers did it themselves. Then customers 
only paid him if they won, sending him a share of their winnings as a fee for his advice. He 
said hed run this with a family member to such success that they were on the cusp of setting 
it up as an official business. Halifax asked Mr S if he could provide any evidence of this, but 
he said he could not as everything was done over the phone. Halifax closed the account and 
registered a marker at CIFAS. 
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
asked for his case to be reviewed afresh. He was particularly keen for us to look at the 
senders account, as he said the sender would have received a large amount of betting 
winnings before paying a fraction of that to Mr S, which Mr S said would show he was telling 
the truth. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and Halifax a provisional decision on 14 December 2022, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to maintain this marker, Halifax are not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr S did something wrong. They do need to have reasonable grounds to believe 
that he misused his account, which go beyond a suspicion or concern, and which have 
appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think there are sufficient grounds for this marker to 
remain. Ill explain why.
Halifax received an official fraud report from another bank. And they could see that after 
receiving the disputed funds, Mr S acted quickly to withdraw the money or send it on, which 
then meant that Halifax couldnt recover it. So I can see why they had grounds to believe he 
might have misused his account.
Mr S said that these funds were fees owed to him as a share of the senders winnings. But 
Ive looked into the senders account, including their historic statements and the sending 
banks investigation. I can see that there were no corresponding credits for winnings in the 
weeks or months before or after they paid Mr S. There were certainly no winnings payments 
which were so large or numerous that the payments to Mr S would constitute only a fraction 
of them. This rather strongly goes against Mr Ss assertion that these payments were a 
share of the senders winnings.
We asked Mr S additional questions to the ones Halifax asked, to give him further chances 
to evidence that he was entitled to these funds. For example, we asked him for:
The name of his business, and for the documents he prepared for Companies House 
when he was about to incorporate it
Evidence of things like adverts, a website, a social media page, messages or emails 
he sent out to promote this venture, and so on  as customers would need to have 
found out about his business somewhere, and would need to have been given his 
contact details in order to phone his tips line 
Any evidence of his contact with the sender  Mr S told the bank that they had some 
text messages together
Evidence of any contact with any other customers, as at least some of them would 
have wanted to contact him in writing before risking their money on his betting advice
The documents he submitted to HMRC, such as invoices, receipts, tax forms, 
accountants submissions, and so on, as if this was a legitimate venture then he 
would have been required to report the large amounts he was receiving to HMRC
Mr S told us he had an account with a bookmaker and followed a model in order to 
come up with his tips, so we asked whether he could evidence this and match it up to 
the advice he gave
But Mr S did not provide any of this information, or any other evidence to support his version 
of events. The main thing he relied on was his assertion that the sender had received 
substantial winnings before paying him  but as above, that is not the case.
So Mr S has so far been completely unable to evidence his version of events, even though 
there was quite a bit of evidence he could have provided to show that this business existed, 
that it was a legitimate venture, and to show what sort of activity it was carrying out. And the 
evidence we do have, from the senders account, goes against Mr Ss testimony.
Ive also considered Mr Ss allegation that the sender put in a false fraud claim in order to 
cheat him out of his fee. But if they wanted to cheat Mr S out of his fee, they could have just 
not paid him in the first place. After all, there was no written contract  Mr S said they only 
had a gentlemans agreement. It wouldnt make much sense for the sender to pay him, 
then falsely report the payments months later and hope that they hadnt been spent in all the 
time in between. And Ive not seen any evidence which shows or substantiates that this was 
a false claim. The senders statements are consistent with what they said happened.
In summary, Mr S received funds which were later officially reported as fraudulent. And he 
acted quickly to forward the funds on or withdraw them, meaning Halifax couldnt recover 
them once they were reported. His version of events does not seem likely. And hes not 
provided any evidence to substantiate what hes told us, despite all the evidence he could 
provide, and despite the fact that he would be required to keep some of this evidence if his 
venture were legitimate. Meanwhile, the evidence from the sending bank strongly goes 
against Mr Ss testimony.So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair that the appropriate marker stays on Mr Ss 
CIFAS record. It follows that I also think its fair that Halifax closed his account, which they 
were allowed to do under its terms. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its 
a difficult message for Mr S to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 January 2023. But neither Mr S nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above. That is: that I think the CIFAS marker and the closure of the 
account was fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman