DRN-2569089
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think it most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive concluded the PPI wasn't mis-sold, and I've set out my reasons below:
Mr M says he doesnt remember PPI being discussed when he took out his credit 
card, and that he cant remember signing for it. Ive noted everything Mr M has said. 
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Mr M and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place over 
twenty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Having reviewed the credit card application form, it seems this was completed by a 
Halifax adviser on a computer and the relevant box was completed to show Mr M 
wanted the PPI. On balance I think its likely the adviser would have discussed the 
PPI with Mr M before completing the form, and made him aware it was optional.
Although I accept it is possible PPI wasnt discussed, it is equally likely it was  
although I can understand why Mr M may no longer remember this. Overall, I don't 
think I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didn't make Mr M aware the PPI was 
optional. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr M says he was 
entitled to sick pay from his employer when the policy was sold, and that he had 
some savings and life insurance. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ms 
employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. And it wouldve meant Mr M 
could use his sick pay and savings to pay for other expenses. Even though Mr M 
says he had life insurance, this wouldve only paid out in the event of death whereas 
the PPI covered him if he was off work sick. 
So I think Mr M wouldve had some use for the policy, despite his existing 
arrangements. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr M would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Which means Halifax does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But 
Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
- Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
- To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman