DRN-1428970
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in May 
2001. Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in May 2001. The policy was 
added to Mrs Ps credit card account when she applied for the card in person. The policy 
cost 78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
I think Halifax made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. Ive 
seen a copy of the application form and note that the option of PPI was checked and the 
application form was signed by Mrs P.
Ive noted that the application form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this was an 
advised sale, and was conducted in a branch, face to face, I think its reasonable to assume 
that a discussion took place and that the form, including Mrs Ps personal details such as her 
mothers maiden name; the name of her employer; and her salary are typed because the 
form was completed on-screen before being printed off for Mrs P to look over and sign.
And as the PPI premiums wouldve appeared on Mrs Ps monthly credit card statements, 
had the PPI been added to her account without either her knowledge or her consent, I 
wouldve expected her to query the PPI in the first few months of the policy starting in 2001.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs P, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she told us she was employed and in good health, so she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for him. I say this because Mrs P told us 
she only had statutory sick pay in the event that she was off work due to sickness or an accident, but this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months. And although she says she 
couldve relied on her family for help, there could be no guarantee that they would be in a 
position to help her at some unknown point in the future.
Ive thought about everything Mrs P and her representative have said, but these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman