DRN-3501996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA) in August 2016 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were told they had to open an URCA to obtain the overdraft they 
wanted, but the URCA was unsuitable for them.
Halifax says that Mr and Mrs W opened the URCA online, where full information about the 
URCA was available which did not include needing to open an URCA to increase an 
overdraft.
This sale took place five years ago and I wasnt present. So, if there was a conversation 
between the parties, I cant know what was said. I can only look at the evidence available 
today including both parties testimony to make my decision.
Halifax has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs W had a fee free account with an overdraft 
for many years before the URCA sale. It has also provided evidence that the online sales 
information didnt refer to increasing a customers overdraft as a benefit of the product. And 
Mr and Mrs Ws overdraft limit didnt change at or after the date of sale.
So, in my view, its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W knew that fee free accounts with 
overdrafts were available and that they had a choice, and they didnt take out the URCA 
because they thought they had to if they wanted to increase their overdraft limit.
Halifax has provided evidence that the URCA was taken out online. This service usually 
sees online sales as information only sales. Ive not seen any evidence such as an 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances as I would expect to see if advice had been 
given, or a recommendation made. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Halifax didnt recommend the URCA and this was a 
non-advised sale.
So, Halifax was only required to provide Mr and Mrs W with enough information to make an 
informed decision.
And I think it did. I say this because the online process took Mr and Mrs W through the cost 
and key benefits of the product, and there wasnt anything that Halifax didnt tell them that 
might have put them off in their circumstances. 
Halifax says it also sent Mr and Mrs W a welcome pack with all the details of the URCA, and 
I think its more likely than not they received it, as they went on to use some of the benefits.
So, while I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that 
Halifax didnt do anything wrong in selling the URCA to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman