DRN-3569052
The complaint
Through his claims management company (CMC), Mr C complains that M&S Financial 
Solutions, an appointed representative (AR) of Pi Financial Limited advised him to transfer 
his pension into a Gaudi self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest with an unsuitable 
discretionary investment manager (DIM) trading as Mercantile Circle.
What happened
In 2017 Mr Cs CMC says that he contacted the Pensions Advisory Service for advice on 
his pensions (its likely he contacted a different company using a similar name to this 
government body). He was then offered a free pension review by a firm who referred him to 
M&S Financial Solutions, who Ill refer to as Pi throughout. 
Mr C signed Pis terms of business in January 2017. He says Pi offered to charge him a one-
off fee of 1.5% of the funds (£930) to move his two existing pensions to a Mercantile Circle 
SIPP because they were underperforming, and this was the only way of accessing his 
pensions from age 55. This SIPP was a tie-up between Gaudi as the SIPP operator and 
Mercantile Circle as a trading name of an introducer-AR to Agincourt Financial Limited who 
would act as the DIM. 
The CMC claims Mercantiles balanced portfolio, which Mr C invested in, included higher 
risks than Mr C was prepared to take, and failed to achieve any growth between 2017 and 
2021. The CMC suggests this is partly as a result of the unnecessary structure compared 
with his existing personal pensions, with three parties instead of one now collecting fees.
The advisers July 2017 suitability report recorded the following:
- Mr C was married and aged 49.
- Hed requested a review of his existing pensions with a view to consolidation and 
then diversification into more exciting asset classes.
- He wanted to clear his £105,000 mortgage before retirement at age 65 (or 67  the 
fact find differed on this point), and then target an income of £1,000 per month. (It 
later noted your current level of funding may prove insufficient.)
- Across his existing pensions valued at £62,259, about half was invested in a 
European (equity) fund. The rest was in with profits funds.
- These did not have protected tax-free cash entitlements or Guaranteed Annuity 
Rates (GARs), but an element of final bonuses was payable on transfer. 
- He also had nine years service in another company pension which was not being 
transferred.
- Mr C had been assessed as a moderately adventurous investor and that would 
involve investing a high proportion in worldwide company shares which could suffer 
sharp falls over some time periods.
- However, he had little knowledge or experience of investing, and not particularly 
high capacity for loss. As a result, Mr C agreed to be moved to a balanced portfolio 
(the median of the three risk-rated portfolios available).
Pis fact find showed that Mr C held no savings or investments other than his main residence 
worth £150,000. The CMC agrees with this. His wife had her own NHS pension of 15 years. 
They had two independent children. 
The adviser recommended the switch of pensions to a SIPP on the basis that Mr Cs 
pensions didnt allow flexible access and the SIPP had a wider range of investments. He 
also said it would enable Mrs C to benefit from the pensions and allow inter-generational 
estate planning - something which it was also noted Mr C did not wish to discuss at that 
time.
Pi explained that Mercantiles fund charges were 1% per year (which should have been 
1%+VAT) and explained this DIM was suitable because it was an established firm with a 
wide range of customers, a good reputation for customer service, and the investment 
strategy was a unique proposition which would provide regular reporting on performance 
(including online access). The adviser said this portfolio would retain a large percentage of 
investments within the UK, and one-third of the total would be in cash and treasury bonds, 
with some remaining diversification in other developed and emerging markets.
The charges were noted to be higher than Mr Cs existing pensions but also no greater than 
a stakeholder [pension] at this time. To counteract this there was an expectation of higher 
growth (which the adviser noted was not guaranteed). He also said ongoing advice could be 
given based on Mr Cs portfolio as a whole and Mr C subsequently agreed to that service at 
an additional cost of 0.5% per year. The SIPPs own charges would be £200+VAT initially 
and £200+VAT per year.
An appendix of risk warnings and technical notes on pensions was enclosed with the report.
The adviser also completed a pension replacement proforma which noted the existing 
Friends Life pension charged 0.75%pa and the Aviva pension 0.875%pa. It also showed the 
past 3 and 5 year performance of the Mercantile balanced portfolio which were only beaten 
by the European fund Mr C was invested in with Friends Life. Only that provider gave a 
choice of funds and only 16 were available. 
He noted the Aviva plan contained protected tax-free cash but only on £3,273 of its total 
value, however Ive found no evidence in Pis file to support this and it was possibly some 
confusion on the advisers part  having stated in the suitability letter that there was no 
protected tax-free cash. The Aviva quote is divided into two sub policies valued at £3,273 
and £6,479, but the quote does not say one of the policies was a stand alone lump sum. In 
any event, this amount was not significant either in terms of the standard 25% tax-free cash 
entitlement or the overall losses Mr C has suffered.
The new SIPP began with a transfer-in of £10,214 on 18 August 2017. The first assets 
purchased by the DIM were a variety of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) tracking world and 
emerging markets equity, FTSE and EURO STOXX 50 shares, UK Gilts, UK, developed 
markets and European property, global clean energy. Trading usually took place several 
times a month.
A copy of Mercantile Circles discretionary fund management (DFM) brochure is on Pis file. 
This said its proposition took the burden of monitoring investments away from financial 
advisers. It promoted its dedicated in-house research team supplemented by third-party 
research, providing reports and commentary on the portfolio at least every six months. It had 
a preference for socially responsible investing, meaning that investments in clean/renewable 
energy, community development and waste efficiency would be considered. In December 2017 it appears Pis compliance department asked the adviser to provide more 
background on the choice of Mercantile. The adviser provided what appears to be a due 
diligence document dated September 2017, following a networking event he attended. This 
notes that the investment arm had been established in February 2017 with portfolios that 
had been running since November 2016, but these had been updated to a more mainstream 
proposition in August 2017. That proposition mirrors the investments purchased in Mr Cs 
portfolio, above.  
The document said Mercantile had won business from other DFMs whose licenses had been 
suspended, now having £36m of funds under management. The new portfolio was yet to be 
benchmarked to any particular index as The managers do not feel they have found an 
appropriate set of benchmarks. No portfolio fact sheets had been published for the same 
reason. Although there had been some recent turnover in personnel on its investment 
committee, he had concluded that the same core decision making function was going to be 
used and there were no wider concerns. He believed that Mercantiles smaller operation 
would make it more nimble compared with larger DIMs, and this was something that Mr C 
specifically liked.
The remaining transfer of £57,281 wasnt received until 19 December 2017. By this point 
Mercantile was making a few small stock selections into iShares Automation & Robotics, 
Longer Dated All Commodities and Lyxor US TIPS GBP Monthly Hedged, but the rest of the 
portfolio was largely in line with the advisers due diligence document.
Mercantiles principal Agincourt Financial Ltd went into liquidation in May 2020 and has been 
declared in default to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
As at March 2021, 29% of the SIPP was invested in a mixture of Exchange Traded Funds 
(ETFs) and shares which were described by Gaudi as defensive (implying they were 
alternative/hedged assets); 21% was in UK blue chip shares, 19% in European, Far East 
and International funds, 15% in income producing funds (some of which were less 
mainstream), 11% in smaller company and other funds, and 5% in cash.
Pis final response to Mr Cs complaint was strikingly brief. In essence, it said that Pi relied 
on an industry-standard attitude to risk questionnaire and had even lowered the risk from the 
level suggested by that questionnaire. It said his complaint was motivated by the poor 
performance of the DIM which had not actually lost money, even if there was negligible 
growth.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint and thought it should be upheld. Her 
conclusions were in the main based on the regulators 2008 Quality of advice on pension 
switching report, which had focused on poor outcomes from additional product costs which 
were either unnecessary or hadnt been explained to the client, and funds mismatching with 
their attitude to risk. In particular, she said:
- The Gaudi illustration showed that it would take the first ten years for the value of the 
plan to exceed what had been paid into it, after the effect of charges. 
- The Friends Life and Aviva plans clearly had lower ongoing charges and would have 
produced much higher projections. 
- Giving Mr C more exciting fund choices in a SIPP wasnt worthwhile when a DIM 
would be making the investment decisions rather than him. 
- The exposure to ETFs in the portfolio exceeded that of a balanced investor, because 
the ETFs were structured as debt securities rather than shares. Mercantiles 
brochure stated the liquidity risks of trading in commodities rather than shares.
- The benefits of ongoing advice should not have been used to justify the switch, as 
the regulator required that service to be costed separately.- Mr C wouldnt be able to access his pension flexibly for another five years, so that 
wasnt adequate justification for switching. And the inheritance tax efficiency of death 
benefits before then was no different than his existing arrangements.
- Overall, there was more prospect for Mr C to be worse off due to the charges with no 
quantifiable compensating benefit.
Pi didnt agree with the investigators view, in summary saying:
- The investigator had focused on short-term performance after transferring. The fact 
Mr C was unlikely to take benefits for a 16 year term until age 65 meant the lower 
charges imposed by the new plan would eventually break even.
- Both of the existing plans had some investment in a with-profits fund, a sector which 
was declining in the industry at the time because of hidden charges. These funds 
were also likely to have poorer performance and the possibility of market value 
adjustments could not be ignored.
- The investment freedom in the SIPP gave Mr C the ability to either make his own 
investment decisions or benefit in full from the DIMs expertise.
- If the recommended portfolio posed a higher risk than Mr Cs balanced attitude to 
risk, that was Mercantiles responsibility.
- Mr C elected to receive an ongoing advice service and this was not contingent on the 
switch to a SIPP.
-The future isnt known but the switch has enabled Mr C to enjoy full future 
investment gain [and] the complaint has arisen due to the poor investment 
performance of Mercantile Invest
- The complaint should be referred to the FSCS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, there is no basis on which this complaint should be referred to FSCS. It is against a 
company, Pi Financial Ltd which is still trading and not in default to FSCS. It appears that Pi 
is attempting to pass responsibility for the outcome of Mr Cs pension switch to Mercantile 
when it advised on the switch and the choice of Mercantile as DIM so, in the first instance, is 
responsible for that advice.
I understand it may be concerned that there has been a shift of Mercentiles investment 
style, from ETFs that tracked certain indices to investments in funds and single company 
shares. And I note the shift from about 30% of the portfolio being held in gilts at outset to 
what Gaudi noted as defensive holdings which appear to be more specialised bond funds 
concentrated in narrow sectors. 
From the transaction statements it appears that many of these investments were bought in 
June 2020, after liquidators for Agincourt were appointed, using in part the proceeds of 
£10,039 in the Mercantile Opportunities Fund and £12,328 in the Mercantile Diversified Fund 
 seemingly funds which Mercantile had introduced and over which it had more direct 
oversight. 
Throughout this time  leading up to the administrator being appointed and afterwards  
Gaudi continued to deduct an ongoing advice fee. Yet Pi has provided no evidence of the 
annual reviews its AR was contracted to provide. According to the terms of business this 
would be an annual assessment of Mr Cs personal circumstances, review of goals and 
objectives, review of investment performance and commentary, reassessment of risk profile 
and asset allocation, fund switching and rebalancing as appropriate.Clearly, it was reasonable to expect some of these roles to be performed by the DIM but not 
all of them. As far back as February 2015 the Personal Finance Society1 had promoted 
guidance to advisers recommending DFM arrangements in order to avoid this so-called 
suitability gap between the advisers and DIMs roles. I consider that this represented good 
industry practice at the relevant time and moreover would have been the only way for Pis 
AR to justify its collection of ongoing fees.
Where the DIM was relying on the advisers fact finding and assessment of attitude to risk 
(as in this case), the PFS made clear that it was the adviser who was responsible for 
monitoring the ongoing suitability of the portfolio mandate to the clients circumstances  and 
that could not be done without taking into account that the DIMs interpretation of the 
mandate might shift over time. So in Mr Cs case, there is little evidence that Pi acted in 
Mr Cs interests in engaging with him and the DIM when different selections were made. 
That said, this is also not a case of the total failure of the portfolio. It failed to achieve any 
growth (as of 2021), and I agree with the investigator that the higher charges involved than 
Mr Cs existing plans must also be seen as a further contributor to this. In saying this I 
should however note that the lack of growth forecast on the original illustration was because 
the figures were shown in real terms  ie adjusted for future inflation. There is in any event 
no illustration of Mr Cs original providers to compare with this illustration  something which 
would have been expected following the regulators 2008 review of the quality of pension 
switching advice.
But on a purely headline basis, Mr Cs existing plans charged a weighted average of closer 
to 0.75%pa (as the Friends Life plan took up the vast majority). There were no initial charges 
for staying with those providers. And even discounting the extra cost of Pis ongoing review 
service but including the initial costs of switching, all the other charges of the new 
proposition would cost nearly double this at 1.5% per year. 
Pi said that the new SIPP was within the stakeholder cap, which wouldnt be correct as that 
cap reduces to 1% in the tenth year. In any case, the stakeholder cap is designed for a 
totally different proposition than that which Pi was offering to Mr C: one where standard low-
cost managed funds covering a broad range of assets could be chosen at outset - and then 
did not require the costs of ongoing management. 
In my view this type of low-cost arrangement would be more attractive to an unsophisticated 
investor such as Mr C who is less likely, in any event, to be capable of understanding or 
engaging with the investment strategy and reporting by the DIM. Based on what was 
recorded of Mr Cs level of understanding I have some doubts over the suggestion made by 
the adviser to his compliance department that Mr C had played an active part in the choice 
of DIM. 
I accept that Mr C ended up with Pi because he was making enquiries about potentially 
changing his pension arrangements. As they were focused on with-profits and European 
funds I agree that they could potentially have benefited from more diversification, in both 
regional specialisation and asset mix. But the first port of call, before incurring potentially 
unnecessary costs, was to explore the funds available with his existing providers. 
The adviser found that Friends Life had a range of 16 funds which is similar to a stakeholder 
offering. As it already offered a European fund it would I am sure have enabled Mr C to 
diversify into other world regions, or dictate more precisely how much was held in gilts or 
bonds, or property. The adviser didnt research the past performance of these other funds, 
1 Good Practice Guide: Adviser research and due diligence on discretionary investment managersbut I note the European fund had actually beaten the proposed DFM portfolio in the past. So 
I dont see a compelling basis on which he could have discounted the existing provider. 
The with-profits holdings provided some diversification, but if the adviser felt Mr C could take 
more risk there was nothing to prevent some of these being switched into equities  or the 
Aviva policy being transferred into Friends Life or a similarly cheap, stakeholder-friendly 
pension with access to such funds. As they neednt have taken up the majority of Mr Cs 
portfolio I dont believe the benefit of guarantees that these funds provided should have been 
completely discounted and viewed as a hidden charge. 
None of the opportunities to consolidate with the existing, or similar, providers were explored 
because the adviser said they didnt offer the investment flexibility, access to income and 
death benefit efficiency of the proposed SIPP.
As the investigator has said, there was no benefit of the SIPP over Mr Cs existing plans for 
any of these reasons until the time came for him to take benefits  which Pi agrees wouldnt 
be until at least age 65; more than fifteen years away. Im satisfied from Mr Cs lack of 
experience that he was unlikely to take advantage himself of the self-investment options. 
Whilst it is true that only the SIPP allowed access to a DIM, it seems to me that the DIM was 
doing what the internal fund managers at Friends Life or another stakeholder provider could 
do  at additional cost, but with no matching guarantee of better performance.
In summary, Im not persuaded that the adviser discharged his obligations to provide Mr C 
with suitable advice on an initial or ongoing basis: with particular regard to the FCAs views 
in its thematic reviews on pension switching, and good industry practice on considering the 
ongoing quality of a DFM service in ongoing reviews.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr C would have invested differently within the Friends Life or a comparably cost-
effective provider. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am 
satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr C fairly Pi Financial Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Pi shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. So, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment 
to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so 
Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr C will be 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From
("start date")To ("end
date")
Gaudi SIPP Still exists For half the investment:
FTSE UK Private
Investors Income Total
Return Index;
for the other half: 
average rate from fixed
rate bondsDates of each 
transfer into the 
SIPPDate of my final 
decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Pi should use
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England.
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates
to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point
on. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Pi assessed Mr C as having a balanced attitude to risk, which does appear to be 
broadly consistent with the questionnaire he completed (albeit some answers were 
slightly contradictory).
However, this was a significant part of Mr Cs pension provision. Pi noted that he had 
a low capacity for loss and up to that point he had a major component invested more 
cautiously in with-profits funds.
Mr Cs CMC has said, variously, that Mr C wasnt prepared to take any more than a 
moderate risk; he did not wish to place his capital at risk; and was assured that the 
Gaudi offering was low risk.
On balance, therefore, Im persuaded that in 2017 Mr C likely wanted capital growth 
with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. 
It does not mean that Mr C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have 
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay him compensation as set out in 
the putting things right section above.
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd must pay Mr C £250 for distress and inconvenience caused by 
its unnecessary advice to switch to the Gaudi SIPP and the impact this has had on his 
retirement plans.
If these amounts are not settled within 28 days of the date Pi receives Mr Cs acceptance of 
my provisional decision, interest must be added at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the 
date of this final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial Ltd considers that its 
required by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its 
taken off. Pi Financial Ltd should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman