DRN-4199111
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments it disputes making 
from its account.
What happened
N is represented by its director. He says that payments of over £9,700 made on 26 January 
2023 werent authorised. He is unhappy that Revolut wont refund these as they were made 
using a new device and at a different location to where he was. He had contacted Revolut, 
and it blocked the wrong card which allowed further payments to go through.
Revolut said in its final response that it hadnt made a mistake as it hadnt found fraudulent 
activity on the account. The payments had been made using the card in a mobile phone 
payment wallet on a new device. To set this up required a code that had been sent to the 
existing mobile number registered on the account and input. And payments would have then 
been made using security information on the new phone and didnt need any further code 
from the app. But Revolut accepted that it had blocked use of Ns account from 28 to 31 
January 2023 when the account hadnt been taken over. And so, it paid N £75 in 
compensation. When it submitted its business file it offered to pay N half of the two 
payments that had occurred after N had reported what happened which was £1,051.96. It 
said that N had a responsibility to keep its security information safe and could have blocked 
the card in the app itself.
Our investigator recommended that Revolut refund the last two payments in full which came 
to £2,103.92 and it agreed to do so. She said that N had provided a copy of the text with the 
one-time code needed to set up the card for payment on a new device. This had been 
received on 25 January 2023. So, there was no evidence of a sim swap and no point of 
compromise for the code. The director of N said he hadnt downloaded any suspicious apps 
or links or responded to any calls. She was unable to identify how an unknown third party 
had been able to discover the code and then use the new device to make payments in 
another city unless the code had been shared by N. So, she found that N was fairly 
responsible for the payments until the point it had alerted Revolut to what had happened. It 
was down to Revoluts error in blocking the wrong card that the last two payments had gone 
through. She explained to N that an earlier card payment of £35.99 that had already been 
refunded through chargeback was distinct as it was made online. 
N didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said that he wanted all 
the payments to be refunded. This loss was having a significant effect on N. And none of 
these payments were authorised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card details. And if they werent authorised N 
wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card details and security 
information used for these payments?
- Did N either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use the 
card as Revolut says?
- Did Revolut act reasonably?
As has been set out the disputed payments were made using Ns card details stored in a 
mobile phone payment wallet. Ive seen that a code with a text message was sent to N on 
25 January 2023 at 11.57. This explained that it would be used to set up another device. 
And that it shouldnt be shared with anyone else. That code was used. I note that the first 
disputed payment came the following afternoon. Revolut has explained that as this was a 
contactless payment and verified with security information on the phone, there was no need 
for it to confirm the payments further with N. Im satisfied that the payments were 
authenticated.
I need to decide if N consented to them. I note that the director explains that he had already 
for example disputed a card payment for £35.99 made on 23 January 2023. That was made 
online. Revolut said it was possible to raise a chargeback for this payment which was 
successful, and it was refunded. This indicates that the card details for N had been 
somehow discovered some time earlier. The disputed payments here though didnt start 
until three days later and a day after the code had been sent to set up a new device. The 
first payment was for £6,990 in a department store and indicated that the person making it 
was confident that the card details were active and that there were substantial funds in the 
account. There is no information to suggest that access to the app itself had been 
compromised. The nature of the payments was consistent with as much money being taken 
from the account as quickly as possible. The director received a notification and began an 
online chat with Revolut while more payments were being made. I note that there didnt 
seem to be further attempts at payment after the card was successfully blocked and even 
though there seemed to be funds remaining in the account.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely. The 
issue here is that there is no identified compromise of the required security details, and the 
director is clear that he didnt provide anyone with the code. And he says he didnt even see 
it until 27 January 2023 when asked about it. I dont have a likely explanation of how an 
unknown third party could have seen this by accessing the phone and especially when the 
payments using that device took place in another city. And so that leaves the most likely 
explanation to be that N consented to the card being used in another device. Such authority 
once given couldnt say be limited to any particular amount. 
Revolut was alerted to spending on the card that N said was fraudulent. It told the director 
that it had blocked the card. I think he could fairly rely on that for N as a means of stopping 
further payments even if as Revolut says it was possible for N to block the card itself and it 
had concerns about whether security information had been disclosed. So, I consider that our 
investigators recommendation that these last two payments be refunded now and as 
accepted by Revolut to be a reasonable one. I can appreciate that N wants all the payments 
refunded but for the reasons Ive given I wont be requiring Revolut to do that. I note the 
other compensation of £75 it has already paid to N which seemed fair. If N doesnt accept 
my assessment it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant 
timescales.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Revolut Ltd to refund to N the 
two payments that total £2,103.92.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman