DRN-3845125
The complaint
Mr P complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter (RateSetter) unfairly arranged a 
loan which was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr P entered into a peer-to-peer loan agreement arranged by RateSetter. 
The loan was for £7,000 with an APR of 16.9%. The monthly repayments were £169.32 and 
were due to be paid over a period of 60 months.
In September 2020, Mr P wrote to RateSetter and said he thought that the loan had been 
arranged irresponsibly. He said that the loan was unaffordable for him, and repaying it had 
caused him problems, such as needing to borrow more money.
RateSetter reviewed Mr Ps complaint. It explained that it considered several factors such as 
reviewing credit profiles, credit history and affordability as well as information given in the 
application itself. Based on the information it had gathered, it didnt think it had arranged the 
loan irresponsibly. 
Mr P remained unhappy with RateSetters response, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators reviewed matters and thought that RateSetter had carried 
out proportionate checks into Mr Ps circumstances. But she thought the decision it then 
made to facilitate the loan, based on what it saw from its checks, was irresponsible. 
In summary, our investigator estimated that a large proportion of Mr Ps income would have 
already been going towards creditors to repay the debt in a reasonable period of time. She 
also noted that Mr P was already using a high proportion of his existing available credit. And, 
he had borrowed two loans of over £21,000 combined, less than a year before applying for 
this loan. So, she thought this should have put RateSetter on notice that there may have 
been underlying problems and that arranging more credit was unlikely to be sustainable. 
Mr P didnt disagree with our investigators findings, but RateSetter did. In summary, 
RateSetter reiterated that the checks it carried out demonstrated that the loan was affordable 
for Mr P. In relation to the loans taken out shortly before this loan, it noted that this 
comprised of one large and one small loan, which it thought lowered the risk when compared 
with multiple smaller loans. It also pointed out that 30% of the larger loan was for debt 
consolidation, so wasnt all new debt.
I issued a provisional decision where I said, in summary, that I didnt think RateSetters 
checks showed any obvious sign of financial difficulty. But I thought that it should have 
carried out further checks into Mr Ps circumstances because hed recently taken out close 
to £21,000 in credit. However, having reviewed Mr Ps bank statements, I found that his 
income appeared to be substantially higher than what was declared on the application. So, I 
was persuaded that further checks would have suggested Mr P would have been able to 
afford the loan.
RateSetter accepted these findings. Mr P didnt respond to the provisional decision or this 
services reminder that was sent to him. Given that some time has now passed since the 
deadline to respond to the provisional decision has elapsed, Ill move forward with issuing 
my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that there was no new information to consider in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings I outlined in that decision. Ive explained my 
reasoning below.
The rules and regulations in place at the time Mr P was provided with the loan, required 
RateSetter to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr P could 
afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused. This means RateSetter had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for RateSetter to consider the likelihood of it getting the funds 
back  it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent on a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they were seeking. Ive kept all of this 
in mind when thinking about whether RateSetter did what it needed to before arranging a 
loan for Mr P. 
From the information Ive been provided with, RateSetter asked Mr P for information about 
his personal situation, the purpose of the loan and his income. Mr P told RateSetter that the 
loan was for home improvements. He also said his income was £35,000 per year from 
full-time employment, which was around £2,256 a month. RateSetter said it checked Mr Ps 
income using a third party and the results suggested that Mr Ps declared income was likely 
to be at least what was stated on the application. RateSetter also asked Mr P some 
questions about his living expenses such as his rent.
RateSetter also asked Mr P about his existing credit commitments. There were no other 
recorded credit commitments on the application form. Its unclear whether this is because 
Mr P stated that he had no other credit commitments, or whether these questions werent 
answered. However, RateSetter didnt rely on this information from the application and 
instead reviewed Mr Ps credit file to check this for itself.
RateSetters credit check showed that Mr P had around seven active credit accounts  four 
credit cards, two loans and one overdraft. The checks showed that Mr P was utilising around 
87% of the available balances on credit cards  he had around £6,656 outstanding against 
available limits of £7,650. The checks also showed that Mr P was committed to paying 
around £294 a month towards two loans. 
RateSetters credit check also indicated that all accounts were being managed well, with no 
recent repayment issues on any of Mr Ps active accounts, such as any public records, defaults or any missed payments. So, Im persuaded there were no obvious signs of 
financial difficulty from the credit check RateSetter did.
However, as our investigator pointed out, the two loans visible on the credit check 
RateSetter carried out, which were collectively close to £21,000, were taken out within a 
year of this application. So, whilst there werent obvious signs of financial difficulty, I think 
Mr P had taken out a fairly large amount of credit quite recently. I note RateSetter has said 
some of the larger loan was for consolidation purposes. But that still left a large amount of 
new credit having been taken. Therefore, I think RateSetter ought to have carried out further 
checks to find out more about Mr Ps financial circumstances, so it could satisfy itself that he 
could sustainably afford to repay the loan.
This service asked Mr P for copies of his bank statements so I could build a picture of his 
financial circumstances at the time, and what RateSetter likely would have seen, had it 
carried out further checks. The statements of what appear to be Mr Ps main account show 
funds going to another account that belonged to him. This service asked Mr P for copies of 
these statements too. Mr P said he was unable to find statements for the account in 
question, but thought it might have been linked to his primary account, which he had already 
provided statements for. It follows that Ive based my findings on the information available to 
me, from the statements which have been provided.
Having reviewed the statements available to me, Mr P appears to have enough disposable 
income in the months leading up to the application to comfortably afford repayments on the 
loan. Additionally, Mr Ps income appears substantially higher than what was declared on the 
application. So, overall, it follows that I dont think that further checks would have prevented 
RateSetter from bringing about Mr Ps loan.
I appreciate Mr P had trouble repaying the loan close to a year after taking it out. So, its 
possible that his circumstances may have worsened after the loan was approved. But, as 
mentioned above, Im not persuaded that information RateSetter would have received from 
carrying out further checks would have suggested Mr P wouldnt have been able to afford 
the loan.
So, while Im sorry to hear of the financial difficulties Mr P went on to have, Im afraid Im not 
upholding this complaint. Im persuaded that further checks would have likely suggested that 
Mr P would be able to afford the credit RateSetter was arranging for him. It follows that I 
dont think RateSetter treated Mr P unfairly in arranging this loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman