DRN-4298781
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that Solutions Financial Services (SFS) didn't give him suitable advice
about transferring his pensions to a SIPP (self invested personal pension) and investing in 
The Resort Group (TRG), Store First and Dolphin Trust, all of which investments have since 
failed. 
What happened
Mr G had several personal pension arrangements with different providers. In May 2012, on 
advice from SFS, Mr G applied for a SIPP with Rowanmoor. In June 2012 two of Mr Gs 
existing personal pensions were transferred to the SIPP. The total value transferred was 
£98,268.89. Later in June 2012 an investment of £48,661.70 was made in TRG. On the 
same day, £22,500 was invested in a Prudential Trustee Investment Plan (TIP) in a 
Managed Fund. In November 2012 £15,586 was invested in Store First.
SFS ceased to be authorised by the regulator on 21 January 2013.
The last of Mr Gs existing pensions was transferred to the SIPP in May 2013. The amount
transferred was £5,417.92 which made the total transferred £103,686.81. In February 2014
£10,000 was invested in Dolphin Trust. In September 2015 some of the holdings in the
Prudential TIP were disinvested. A few days later a further £19,341.60 was invested in 
Dolphin Trust.
A statement issued by the SIPP provider showed that, as at 9 May 2022, TRG, Store First 
and Dolphin Trust investments were all valued at zero. The TIP was valued at £14,931.31 
and there was £6,456.90 in the SIPP bank account.  
In July 2022 Mr G complained, through his representative, that hed been given unsuitable 
advice by SFS about the transfer to the SIPP and the subsequent investments. He said he 
hadnt been advised that the investments were high risk and illiquid and not suitable for a 
retail client such as him. The risks hadnt been fully explained and he hadnt been given all 
the relevant information to make an informed decision as to whether or not to proceed with 
the pension application, transfer and venture. There was a lack of diversification. His fund 
shouldve been invested in a variety of asset classes but instead 100% was invested in high 
risk and illiquid assets. SFS had failed to assess the suitability of the underlying investment. 
SFS said we couldnt consider the complaint because it had been made too late. But the 
investigators view was that the complaint had been made within the applicable time limits. 
The investigator wrote to SFS on 25 January 2023 explaining why hed reached that view. 
He went on to consider the merits of the complaint which he upheld. 
In summary he said: 
SFS hadnt made any submissions about the merits of the complaint. So the 
investigator didnt know what arguments SFS wanted to raise. But, based on Mr Gs 
submissions and the evidence the investigator had seen, it was reasonable to 
conclude SFS had advised Mr G to switch his existing pensions to the SIPP and 
make the investments into TRG, Store First and Dolphin Trust. The SIPP application 
showed SFS as the financial adviser whod acted in relation to the transfer of Mr Gs 
existing pensions to the new SIPP. The form also showed that Mr G and SFS were 
considering an investment into TRG in the next twelve months. And there was an 
invoice showing that SFS was paid a fee for the transfer to the SIPP. 
Advising on a SIPP is a regulated activity. The regulators rules required SFS to know 
their client and give suitable advice. The regulator (formerly the Financial Services 
Authority  FSA) had issued a number of alerts about advising on transfers with a 
view to investing pension monies in unregulated products through a SIPP. The alerts 
made it clear that the regulators view was that, to provide suitable advice, 
consideration had to be given as to how a consumers funds would be invested. 
The investigator quoted from an alert issued in 2013 by the FSA which said, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such 
as SIPPs and other wrappers), providing suitable advice generally required 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. And, where a customer 
seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the 
advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy 
the customer is contemplating. 
The alert wasnt a change in regulation or position by the regulator. It simply restated 
the principles that already applied and were in place in 2012 when the SIPP was sold 
to Mr G. SFS had a duty to advise on the suitability of Mr Gs intended investment. 
SFSs advice that Mr G switch his existing personal pensions to a SIPP wasnt 
suitable for him. In early 2012 Mr G had been 42 and earning around £100,000 pa. It 
seemed he had limited investment experience. He had a mortgaged property and no 
savings or other investments other than his existing pensions. He couldnt afford to 
take any significant risks with his retirement funds. 
It wasnt reasonable for SFS to recommend that Mr G switch to a SIPP to facilitate 
investment in commercial property, an unregulated and illiquid investment. Mr G 
could only access his pension fund if a buyer could be found for his particular 
commercial properties. And, if cash was needed, it wasnt possible to sell part of the 
commercial property so the entire property would need to be sold at the current 
market rate which may not be favourable at that point. It is also more costly to 
dispose of property. Overall commercial properties were high risk investments. Mr G 
had very little investment experience and a limited capacity for loss and shouldnt 
have been advised to switch his existing pensions to make the commercial property 
investments.
Mr G had also invested in a Prudential Managed Fund (the TIP) and that was 
probably reasonably suitable. But its likely a similar fund wouldve been available to 
him in his existing pensions. So that investment alone didnt make the SIPP 
necessary. 
If SFS had fully explained the implications of the pension switches, Mr G wouldnt 
have moved his pension arrangements. If SFS had said TRG and Store First 
investments were unsuitable, Mr G wouldnt have proceeded with them. 
SFS wasnt responsible for the Dolphin Trust investments. Although Mr G had said 
that SFS had advised him to invest, the investments had been made after SFS had 
ceased to be authorised by the regulator in January 2013. 
The investigator set out how SFS needed to compensate Mr G. 
SFS continued to maintain that the complaint had been made too late. The investigator 
considered SFSs further comments but he still thought the complaint had been made in 
time. The complaint was referred to me to decide if it was one we could investigate. I issued a 
jurisdiction decision on 3 July 2023. For the reasons I set out I said the complaint hadnt 
been made too late and we could consider it. 
After Id issued my jurisdiction decision, the investigator reminded SFS that hed already 
issued his view on the merits of the complaint. The investigator invited any new information 
from SFS and said, if SFS had nothing further to add, the complaint would await an 
ombudsmans decision. SFS asked what documents had already been supplied and the 
investigator said SFS hadnt provided any, nor had SFS made any submissions. SFS then 
sent us some documents, including various fact finds and financial planning reports.
Theres a financial planning report prepared by SFS on 10 May 2012 relating to Mr Gs 
retirement provision. Amongst other things, it sets out six categories of attitude to risk, 
ranging from risk averse (1) to medium/high (5) and high (6). The report said Mr S was 
prepared to invest 30% in medium/high and 70% in high risk categories. The report referred 
to discussions over the last three months about Mr Gs attitude to risk and said he had a 
good understanding of the Risk Vs Reward model and he now wanted to take a greater risk 
to potentially achieve a greater reward, whilst he still had time to invest. The report said Mr G 
was fully aware of the potential for significant loss and that had been discussed at length but 
he was certain he wished to take that approach to potentially achieve a far greater return on 
his pension fund than hed done up to now. 
The report said Mr G wanted to consolidate his pension funds. And that, because of his 
sophisticated financial awareness, it had been agreed to take an alternative investment 
strategy, namely a SIPP. Details of Mr Gs two existing personal pension arrangements were 
set out. An exit charge of £4,605.90 applied to one of the funds but SFS had negotiated a 
reduction to £2,504.38. The report said Mr G was adamant he wished to consolidate his 
pension fund into one pot and had specifically requested a SIPP as he was again adamant 
that he wished to invest in property. He was fully aware of the associated charges especially 
the (reduced) exit penalty. The rationale for SFSs recommendation included the possibility 
of investing in a commercial property, having all Mr Gs pensions with one provider and in 
one pot, wide fund choice, more active control and management and flexibility to take tax 
free cash at any time from age 55 without the need to take income. 
The investigator considered the report and the other documents SFS had provided. But he 
told SFS that he hadnt been persuaded to substantively change his assessment of the 
merits of the complaint. The advice to transfer Mr Gs pensions to the SIPP was to facilitate 
the investment into commercial property. The investigator reiterated what hed said earlier 
about investing in commercial property being a high risk strategy and unsuitable for Mr G. 
The investigator told SFS that if it still disagreed the matter would allocated to an 
ombudsman to decide the complaint. We also later told SFS that the case had been 
allocated to me and that I was considering it with a view to issuing a final decision. We gave 
SFS a final opportunity to comment but we havent received anything by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, I issued a jurisdiction decision on 3 July 2023. Were required to keep 
jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of a complaint. Ive done that but my 
view remains as set out in my jurisdiction decision  that Mr Gs complaint has been made in 
time and we can consider it. Having gone on to consider the merits of the complaint, I agree with the investigator that 
TRG and Store First investments werent suitable investments for Mr G. And, as the 
investigator pointed out, the recommendation that Mr G switch his existing pensions to a 
SIPP had to take into account the proposed investments. The SIPP was recommended on 
the basis that it allowed a wider investment choice. I dont think Mr G had any need to 
access the sort of investments that were recommended and which, in my view, represented 
more risk than Mr G shouldve been advised to take. 
Despite what the report dated 10 May 2012 recorded, I dont think Mr G was a sophisticated 
or experienced investor. I havent seen anything to indicate he had any significant 
investment experience, aside from his existing pensions and a stocks and shares ISA (which 
SFS had recommended in April 2012 and in which Mr G had invested £10,680). Hed have 
been dependent on advice from SFS. 
Mr G did have significant earnings. A figure of £100,000 pa has been mentioned but the 
various financial planning reports SFS prepared in the first half of 2012 suggest Mr Gs 
earnings were less - £60,000 pa or £65,000 pa. Mr G had no savings (aside from the ISA) or 
other assets, apart from his property (which was subject to a mortgage) and the pensions 
which he transferred to the SIPP and which represented the entirety of his retirement 
savings. 
Mr G apparently wanted to adopt a high risk strategy for the majority of his pension fund in 
the hope of achieving a higher return. The report said Mr G was fully aware of the potential 
for significant loss by taking this approach and that had been discussed at length. Mr G may 
have regarded his existing pension provision as unlikely to be sufficient to produce an 
acceptable level of retirement benefits. But adopting a high risk approach meant he could 
lose the funds hed built up to date. I dont think Mr G was in a position to take a high level of 
risk with his accumulated pension savings. I dont think he had the capacity for loss that 
might result. It was up to SFS to give Mr G suitable advice, taking into account his overall 
personal and financial circumstances, his needs and objectives. I think SFS shouldve 
advised Mr G against exposing his pension fund to a high level of risk. 
Against that background Ive considered TRG investment first. TRG sold hotel rooms, either 
as whole entities or fractional share ownership in a company. Mr Gs investment was a 50% 
interest in accommodation in TRGs Llana Beach resort. As the investigator pointed out, 
there are a large number of risk factors involved in investing in commercial property. And 
here the property was overseas which gave rise to other political and economic risk factors, 
including currency and infrastructure risks. TRG had been operating since 2007 but the 
Llana Beach resort was a new project so there were development risks and no track record 
for the investment.
Im not sure if TRG was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) but even if not 
I think it can fairly be described as specialist and non mainstream. And it wasnt covered by 
the usual regulatory protections. While some investment in that type of asset might not be 
unsuitable for an investor who is prepared and in a position to take some risk, Mr G was 
investing £48,661.70 which was approaching half of his SIPP fund and accumulated pension 
savings.  
Mr G did have some time before he intended to retire. He was 47 at the time of the advice so 
he had around 18 years if he was planning to retire at, say, age 65. It might have been 
possible for him to have replaced any pension funds that fell in value or were lost altogether. 
But I dont think that justified the recommendation, given the level of risk the investment 
presented. And although there seems to have been some discussions about the risks, 
including that Mr G might lose all of his investment, I dont think that meant Mr G fully 
understood the risks or made TRG investment suitable for him. The situation was compounded by the investment of £15,586 Mr G made a few months later 
in Store First. Again it was an unregulated investment with a limited track record and no 
investor protection. It was high risk and speculative so Mr Gs entire investment could be 
lost. And it was a further commercial property investment which meant that there was a lack 
of diversification and too much reliance on one asset class which, for the reasons pointed 
out by the investigator, was high risk and potentially illiquid. 
In my view, the transfer to the SIPP was to facilitate investments which represented more 
risk than Mr G shouldve been advised to take. I dont think the reasons given in the financial 
planning report dated 10 May 2012 justified the transfer. The SIPP wasnt necessary or 
suitable and taking into account the intended underlying investments. As the investigator 
pointed out, provision of suitable advice requires consideration of the pension vehicle and 
the proposed investments. And, although Mr G may have wanted to consolidate his existing 
pensions, I dont think a SIPP was necessary to do that. 
Although the financial planning report records that Mr G was adamant he wanted to switch 
to a SIPP to invest in commercial property, I dont think hed have proceeded if SFS had said 
that strategy and the planned investments werent suitable for him. SFS had been Mr Gs 
adviser for some years and Mr Gs plans seem to have been formulated with SFSs input. I 
dont think SFS shouldve suggested or endorsed an investment strategy for Mr G based on 
commercial property. 
At about the same time as TRG investment was made, Mr G also invested £22,500 in the 
Prudential TIP. Ive seen the financial planning report prepared by SFS on 26 June 2012 
recommending that investment. I dont think the TIP was necessarily unsuitable, had the rest 
of Mr Gs fund been appropriately invested and diversified. But Mr G wouldnt have needed a 
SIPP to make the TIP investment and wouldnt have had it but for SFSs unsuitable advice. 
So Ive included the TIP in the redress Ive set out below. 
But I cant hold SFS responsible for any losses sustained in connection with the investments 
in Dolphin Trust. The (first) investment was made in February 2014. Even if Mr Gs position 
is that SFSs adviser recommended the Dolphin Trust investments, we can only consider 
complaints against authorised firms and not individuals. SFS wasnt authorised and 
regulated after 21 January 2013 and we cant consider a complaint against SFS about 
anything that happened after then. So I havent considered either of the Dolphin Trust 
investments  the first £10,000 that was invested in February 2014 or the further investment 
of £19,341 in September 2015. And the redress Ive set out below, which follows what the 
investigator suggested, doesnt include the Dolphin Trust investments. 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr G wouldve 
remained with his previous providers, but I cant be certain that a value will be obtainable for 
what his previous policies wouldve been worth. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr G's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr G fairly Solutions Financial Services should:
Compare the performance of Mr Gs investment with the notional value if his existing 
pensions had remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than 
the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than 
the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is payable.Add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mr Gs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr G's pension plan, Solutions Financial 
Services should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into 
the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Mr G is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr G wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
In addition Solutions Financial Services should pay Mr G £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Rowmanmoor 
SIPPSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
values from 
previous 
providers as 
at the date of 
settlementDate of 
investmentDate of 
settlementNot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment into TRG or Store First is illiquid (meaning it cant be 
readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. 
So, Solutions Financial Services should take ownership of any TRG or Store First illiquid
investments within the portfolio by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension
provider. This amount paid should be included in the actual value before compensation is 
calculated.
If Solutions Financial Services is unable to purchase the illiquid investment the value of that 
investment should be assumed to be nil when arriving at the actual value of the portfolio. 
Solutions Financial Services may wish to require that Mr G provides an undertaking to pay 
any amount he may receive from that investment in the future to Solutions Financial 
Services. The undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Solutions Financial Services will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional valueThis is the value of Mr Gs investment had it remained with the previous providers until the 
end date. Solutions Financial Services should request that the previous providers calculate 
this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Rowanmoor SIPP should be added to the notional value
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
For the purposes of the calculation, the investments into Dolphin Trust should be treated
as a withdrawal from the Rowanmoor SIPP. Any withdrawal from the Rowanmoor SIPP
should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so
it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. To be clear, £10,000
was invested on 5 February 2014 and £19,341.6 on 7 September 2015 into Dolphin Trust.
If a previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Solutions Financial Services will 
need to determine a fair value for Mr Gs investment instead, using this benchmark: For half 
the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a 
fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the
calculation of compensation.
The Rowanmoor SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Rowanmoor
SIPP to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments
need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Solutions Financial 
Services taking over the portfolio, or this is something that Mr G can discuss with the 
provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are involved and we 
dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Solutions Financial Services is unable to 
purchase the portfolio, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Solutions 
Financial Services pay Mr G an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper 
fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable
period for the parties to arrange for the Rowanmoor SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It doesnt mean Mr G 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr G couldve obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Solutions Financial Services must redress Mr G as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman