DRN-2303550
The complaint
Ms H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a monthly premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Ms H was sold a MPPI policy in February 1998 during a meeting. The MPPI would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Ms H was off work sick or lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. Ms H didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in October 2020 explaining why I intended to 
uphold this complaint. I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments and 
evidence they would like me to consider before I issued a final decision. Lloyds have agreed 
with my provisional decision to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ms H hasnt provided anything 
further for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case.
As I havent been provided with anything further to consider and Lloyds have agreed with my 
provisional decision to uphold this complaint, I see no reason to depart from the findings as 
set out in my provisional decision and uphold Ms Hs complaint for the same reasons. My 
findings from my provisional decision are set out here again and form part of my final 
decision:
Lloyds accept they advised Ms H to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was suitable 
for Ms H. I cant see what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy was suitable for 
Ms H but in any event, I dont think policy was suitable for her. Ill go on to explain why.
Ms H has told us she was entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half pay from 
her employer. She has also provided evidence in support of this. This means she was 
entitled to the equivalent of 9 months full sick pay already. So the policy would have 
provided cover for an additional 3 months. However, it looks to me that Ms H had well above 
the equivalent of this amount in savings at the time of the sale.
Although Ms H understandably no longer has access to her savings statements from the 
time of the sale, she has been able to provide us with several current account statements 
from before, after and at the time of the sale which show generous deposits into her savings 
account/s. Within a few months of taking out this policy, I can see that Ms H had access to 
over £20,000 in savings. Even taking into account the deposits into the savings account 
which post-date the sale, her account statements shows that Ms H would still have had 
sufficient funds in place at the time of the sale to be able to meet her commitments for a 
considerable period of time and well above the additional three months the policy would 
have provided.
So given the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely that Ms H did have sufficient 
provisions in place and as such in the particular circumstances of this case, I think Ms H did 
not have a need for MPPI.
So having taken everything into consideration, I currently think Lloyds mis-sold Ms H this 
MPPI policy.
Ms H has also raised a complaint about the level of service she has received from Lloyds 
and wants to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. However, I 
can see that a colleague of mine has already considered this aspect of Ms Hs complaint as 
part of their final decision under a separate complaint reference. This means I am unable to 
consider this again for the purposes of this decision.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Ms H in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out MPPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
Pay Ms H the amount she paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Ms H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give   
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and require them to pay Mrs H 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman