DRN-3248906
The complaint
Mr N complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibralter) Limited (Admiral) mishandled his claim 
under his home contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N made a claim against his home contents policy following a fire at a neighbouring 
property. Admiral appointed a contractor to review the damage. Mr N said the contractor 
assessed his contents but in doing so, also informed Mr N that his house was uninhabitable 
due to the smoke damage. Mr N said he was left thinking the damage could pose a danger 
to his family if they continued living there. Following this advice Mr N said his family moved 
out to live with friends, whilst he remained in the property to look after the familys pets.
Following this advice Mr N contacted Admiral asking for tests to be carried out on his home. 
He was concerned about the safety of his family living there. Mr Ns housing association 
arranged for the tests to be carried out which showed the house wasnt dangerous to live in. 
Mr N complained as he said the initial advice from Admirals contractor was inaccurate and 
led to his family been distressed and ultimately inconvenienced.
Admiral said it couldnt uphold his complaint as it couldnt find evidence of incorrect 
information being given to Mr N by its contractor. Admiral said its contractor was only 
appointed to review Mr Ns contents for smoke damage. Admiral said it was a gesture of 
goodwill that its contractor left two air scrubbers to assist Mr N with his concerns. Admiral 
said its contractors informed Mr N that he would have to speak with his housing association 
about his concerns. At no point did it say he couldnt reside there. Admiral offered Mr N with 
alternative accommodation for a week, which Mr N declined, but it paid Mr N a disturbance 
allowance.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said she was persuaded that Mr 
Ns concerns had grown about the safety of his family living at home following the visit by 
Admirals contractor. However, she said Admiral had acted appropriately when it was made 
aware of Mr Ns concerns by offering short-term alternative accommodation. Mr N disagreed, 
so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before setting out my decision, I wanted to clarify that when Mr N made his initial complaint 
to Admiral he set out four complaint points. However, in his escalation to our service, Mr N 
raised issue with only one of these points, which was the inaccurate information provided by 
Admirals contractor and the consequences of this, along with the general mishandling of the 
claim. So, my decision has only considered this point that was raised with our service. 
I think its clear from Mr Ns actions that following the inspection of his home by Admirals 
contractor, he was concerned about the safety of his family living in the home given the 
potential smoke contamination. So much so, that his family moved into live with friends in the 
short-term. I think this wouldve been stressful for Mr N who was worried about the recent 
medical condition of one of his family members.
However, Admiral said its contractor didnt provide any inaccurate information about how 
safe it was to live at the property and said the contractor was only engaged and responsible 
for reviewing the contents. It did say that two air scrubbers were left with Mr N purely as a 
gesture of goodwill as Mr N was concerned. I have also seen a written account from 
Admirals contractor in response to the complaint. The contractor said, At no point did I 
suggest that the property was uninhabitable. The contractor said he advised Mr N to speak 
with his housing association if he was concerned with the air quality.
The subsequent testing of the air quality in the home that was organised by the housing 
association showed the air quality within the home to be safe, which led to Mr Ns complaint. 
He thought Admirals contractor had provided an inaccurate conclusion to him, which led to 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience with his family moving elsewhere. 
The difficulty in deciding on this complaint, is that Admirals responsibility under a contents 
policy is only for a claim against the contents. Admiral has been clear this was its only 
responsibility and it said it is the only remit it gave its contractor when inspecting the 
property. However, its clear from Mr Ns actions that he was worried about his family staying 
at the property. Mr N said Admirals contractor said the smoke damage to the property posed 
a danger. However, the contractor has rebutted this. As there were no witnesses present, its 
uncertain exactly what was said or if anything that was said couldve been mis-interpreted. 
So, there is no clear evidence for me to say Admiral has done anything wrong. I think 
Admiral was fair in offering short-term alternative accommodation until Mr Ns fears were 
alleviated.
I have reviewed the report that was produced by Admirals contractor (the same contractor 
who Mr N said advised him his property was uninhabitable). If Admirals contractor thought 
the house was uninhabitable, I wouldve expected his report to set this out clearly. Ive 
reviewed the report in detail, but I cant see anything that the contractor has put in the report 
that says the property was uninhabitable or dangerous to live in. The report shows that Mr N 
had carried out extensive cleaning prior to the visit and there was smoke damage to the 
contents across many rooms in the property. However, as there isnt evidence that Admirals 
contractor provided Mr N with inaccurate information, I wont be upholding this complaint.
Im not saying Mr N didnt have valid concerns about the safety of his family. But to uphold 
the complaint, I would need evidence that Admiral or its contractors provided inaccurate 
information to Mr N. As I havent, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance (Gibralter) 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman