DRN-1887629
The complaint
Mr H and Ms S are unhappy with the fees and charges applied to their account by Santander 
UK Plc. Theyre also unhappy because Santander hadn't clearly informed them about an 
outstanding balance that was on the account.   
What happened
Mr H and Ms S had a joint account with Santander. In August 2011, they defaulted on the 
account and entered into a debt management plan. Between 2011 and 2014, they made a 
payment of £841.60. They say Santander informed them the balance of £841.60 they paid 
was final.
They later received statements from Santander showing an outstanding balance of £299.75 
on the account. So, in March 2018, Mr H telephoned Santander to query what this balance 
was for. He says, on that call, the advisor informed him the statement showed an 
outstanding balance of £299.75. The advisor also said the balance showing was for 
information only, that the account was closed and there was nothing to worry about. Mr H 
was also told he wouldn't need to pay anything further.
In November 2018, Santander sent Mr H and Ms S a letter informing them that a debt 
recovery agent will manage the account.
Mr H was unhappy he hadn't been informed by Santander that he had any outstanding 
balance until 2018 and made a complaint in June 2019. A final response was issued and 
Santander said charges to the account had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions and were fair. It also said that balance of £299.75 was still outstanding on the 
account which was an accurate reflection of whats happened on the account. 
Mr H and Ms S referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and said the issue with regard to the fees and charges wasn't something we could 
look at as it was out of time. She also thought Santander hadn't been clear in its telephone 
call with Mr H and caused him confusion. She initially recommended Santander writes off the 
£299.75 that was outstanding. Following a further explanation from Santander, it accepted it 
could have been clearer in the telephone call with Mr H but didn't agree that the outstanding 
amount ought to be written off. It made a payment to Mr H and Ms S of £50 for the trouble 
and upset caused, which the investigator thought was fair in the circumstances. She said, 
however, the outstanding balance was a true reflection of the debt on the account. She said 
she wouldn't be asking Santander to write off that balance as it wasn't fair or reasonable to 
do so.
Mr H and Miss S accepted the issue about fees and charges was out of time. But they didn't 
agree with the investigator on the issue about the outstanding balance. They asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide on this complaint is whether I think:
Santander ought to write off the balance outstanding; and 
The offer of £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the bank statements from August 2015 to February 2018 and communication 
sent to us by Santander. The account has been closed for some time and the outstanding 
balance remains as £299.75. 
Ive additionally listened to the telephone call that took place between Mr H and Santander in 
March 2018. The advisor said there was a balance of £299.75, the statement was for 
informational purposes and it was a debit balance from when the account defaulted in 2014. 
He further confirmed the account was closed so Mr Hs credit file wouldn't be affected as six 
years had passed. He explained the outstanding balance will still remain, and he said there 
was nothing to worry about. Mr H asked the advisor to clarify whether the balance was a 
credit or a debit  the advisor said it was a debit. 
Having listened to the call, I agree the call was confusing in parts. However, having said that, 
there was enough in the telephone conversation for me to be satisfied that the advisor did 
inform Mr H the balance of £299.75 was a debit (and therefore, not a credit) on the account. 
I understand Mr H has said that there is no indication on any of the statements that the 
balance was negative. And, had the conversation with the advisor not taken place, I could 
understand the statements wouldve been the only information Mr H had in terms of what the 
account balance was. The statement of itself, I agree, doesn't give a clear indication that the 
balance is a negative one. But having listened to the telephone conversation as well, theres 
no doubt Mr H was informed the balance was a debit.
As it stands, the balance of £299.75 remains outstanding on the account. This is a true 
reflection of whats happened on the account and Im not persuaded that this balance ought 
to be written off. There was some confusion in the call but thats not enough for me to say Mr 
H and Ms S weren't aware the balance was still showing as a debit and therefore 
outstanding on the account. Santander has recognised this failing and has paid Mr H and Ms 
S £50 for the confusion caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. I dont think Santander needs to do anything further. The balance of £299.75 is 
outstanding and its now up to both the parties to decide the next steps between them. 
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded the balance of £299.75 
ought to be written off. While Santander caused confusion in the telephone conversation, its 
recognised this and made a payment of £50 for not being clear enough. As such, Santander 
doesn't need to do anything further.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold Mr H and Ms S's complaint against Santander 
UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman