DRN-2927728
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided him with a loan that was 
unaffordable.  
What happened
Mr S was given a single loan by Bamboo. The main loan details are as follows:
Date taken Loan amount Number of 
monthly 
instalmentsTypical monthly 
repaymentLoan status
January 2017 £5,000 24 £308.65 PAID in May 2018
The stated loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, Mr S said he would use 
the loan to repay other debt.
Mr S complained that Bamboo lent to him without sufficient affordability checks or properly 
assessing his over-indebtedness. He told us that his financial situation was already poor and 
the loan made things worse. 
When Mr S complained to Bamboo it didnt uphold the complaint. Bamboo did however offer 
a payment of £300 as a gesture of goodwill in order to settle the complaint quickly.
Mr S didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and he felt that this was a complaint we 
should uphold.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, Bamboo said it saw that 
Mr S was in control of his finances and it made a responsible lending decision after carefully 
considering Mr Ss circumstances and affordability. Bamboo felt it was reasonable to 
disregard a historic default shown on Mr Ss credit report. And it said that using the loan for 
debt consolidation could have helped him (although he could still afford it anyway) and he 
repaid the loan exceptionally well, so there was no evidence of detriment to Mr S.
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman review so the complaint came to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and I am upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill 
explain in more detail why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Its important to keep in mind that when working out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a 
lender must take a borrower focussed approach and think about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say what a 
lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks 
should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend 
on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, 
the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a 
lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income and verified this using an online credit checking service. Bamboo 
obtained a credit report to find out about Mr Ss credit history and relied on statistical 
information which indicated what the likely living expenses would be for someone in Mr Ss 
particular circumstances based on national UK averages. Mr S told Bamboo he didnt pay 
anything towards his housing costs.
Mr Ss monthly take home pay was recorded as £2,960. After reviewing the information on 
the credit report it obtained and taking into account what it thought Mr S would likely need to 
spend, Bamboo worked out that Mr S should have a cash surplus each month of just over 
£800. So Bamboo concluded that the monthly repayment for this loan shouldve been 
affordable for him. 
On this basis, Bamboo concluded that it was fair to provide this loan to Mr S  and it still 
thinks this. 
Ive carefully taken into account everything Bamboo has said  including comments made in 
response to our investigators view. I think it was reasonable for Bamboo to have drawn no 
adverse conclusions about a default dating from 2011. I can understand why that debt 
wasnt likely to be a priority for Mr S if it hadnt been actively pursued  especially as it would 
soon likely become unenforceable and no longer reported on his credit file in any event. So 
I dont think this information provided a lender with much useful insight into Mr Ss current 
financial situation. I can also see that Bamboo gathered information showing that Mr S had a 
significant amount of unused credit available, including an overdraft facility he didnt appear 
to use. And its fair to say that his live accounts did appear to be well managed.But I still think that the picture painted overall showed that Mr S was already over-reliant on 
using expensive credit and the signs were that he was increasing his dependency on using 
credit to manage his financial situation.
Having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be unusual for 
a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar 
to lending. But I dont think Bamboo took properly into account what the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Ss overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner.
Whilst I agree with Bamboo that it was reasonable to discount the monthly repayments he 
was making on a loan that he would likely be repaying in the near future, I think Bamboo 
should have been concerned to see that Mr Ss current debt servicing costs took up such a 
significant proportion of his take home pay it was a clear indication that Mr S was, in reality, 
already experiencing financial difficulty. 
And thats borne out by other information Bamboo saw showing that Mr S seemed to be 
juggling his debt between credit cards  for instance, he had cleared two of his credit card 
balances to nil in September and October 2016 but since then he had run up the balances 
towards the card limits again. And the bulk of his debt had been accumulating over the 
previous 12 months. 
With the monthly repayments for this loan, Mr S would have to spend more than half his take 
home pay on servicing debt. In my opinion, as a responsible lender, given his financial 
situation and seeing the level of income Mr S would be committed to paying just to cover his 
debt, Bamboo shouldve realised that he would likely struggle to repay this loan sustainably 
 especially bearing in mind the 24 month loan term. 
I've taken into account that Bamboo understood the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But Bamboo didnt have control over how Mr S used the loan as it paid the 
loan balance to him. 
And even if Mr S had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Bamboo had 
sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given his outstanding 
indebtedness overall and reliance on using credit cards  which of course would make 
available more credit if he paid the balances down. 
So I think the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. 
Taking all these things into account, I think Bamboo ought reasonably to have been aware 
that taking this additional, costly lending was likely to further over-stretch Mr Ss finances 
beyond the point where the portion of his income he would need to spend every month over 
the loan term just to meet his credit commitments would be sustainable for him  
In my opinion, as a responsible lender, Bamboo shouldve realised that Mr S would likely 
struggle to repay this loan. So I agree with our investigator that Bamboo didnt make a fair 
lending decision when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr S based on the information it had 
in front of it. 
The fact Mr S successfully made the loan repayments and repaid the loan early doesnt 
mean that he was able to do so sustainably. And whilst I've noted that Bamboo said a new 
credit report it obtained showed his debt levels had reduced by 30%, this doesnt affect my 
overall view that its lending decision was unfair. As Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo 
needs to put things right.
Like our investigator, I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr S some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional 
redress over and above what I've set out below.
But for all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to 
take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr S should repay the capital amount that he borrowed, because he had the benefit of that 
lending. But in line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed.
So Bamboo should:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to take the steps I've set out above to put 
things right for Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman