DRN-2499450
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about a claim they made under their home insurance policy with 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). They are unhappy that LV rejected a 
claim for damage to their conservatory roof because it didnt think the weather had been 
sufficiently severe to be classed as a storm.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs T made a claim to LV for damage to their conservatory roof. They 
have said the damage occurred during bad weather and water poured in through the hole in 
the roof (which was big enough for Mr T to put his hand through) and damaged furniture 
below. 
The claim was declined in the initial telephone call as the weather data LV accessed didnt 
show storm conditions around the time of the claim. Whilst Mr and Mrs T thought the storm 
could have happened weeks earlier, when they remembered the weather being very windy, 
LV wasnt able to validate the claim. However, Mr and Mrs T were asked to provide a report 
from their tradesman as to the cause of the damage and to provide photographs of the 
damage.
Mr and Mrs T had the roof repaired at a cost of £450. LV asked to speak to the repairer to 
establish the cause of damage. The repairer wasnt able to confirm what the cause of the 
damage was, only that the fixings on one of the roof panels had moved. When referring their 
complaint to this service, Mr and Mrs T said the repairer hadnt been at the property when 
the damage occurred, was not an expert in assessing wind damage and so was not able to 
form a valid opinion about the cause of damage. 
Mr and Mrs T provided photographs of the damage to their roof, but when they were 
transferred onto LVs claim file, they were converted to a black and white format, which 
meant they were of no use to assess the claim. LV asked Mr and Mrs T to provide it with 
colour photographs, which they had already done. 
LV responded to Mr and Mrs T. It didnt consider it had been wrong in the answer to the 
claim they made. However, it thought its representative should have explained the claim 
process better and reminded them of the excess payable on the claim if it was accepted. In 
light of the poor communication and handling of the claim, LV paid Mr and Mrs T £100. It 
said if they wanted to pursue the claim further, they needed colour copies of the photographs 
of the damage.
Mr and Mrs T provided another copy of the photographs. LV confirmed it had reviewed the 
photographs. It again declined the claim. It said there had been a storm around six weeks 
before Mr and Mrs T noticed the roof leaking, but it didnt think that storm was responsible 
for the damage to the roof, as it would have become apparent before it did due to the 
inclement weather in between. In addition, it didnt think the type of damage present was 
consistent with what would be expected from a storm. It thought it more likely the movement 
to the fixings in the roof that had allowed the water ingress was due to thermal movement. 
So LV concluded the cause of the damage to Mr and Mrs Ts conservatory was not a storm 
and there was no cover available under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T said they thought LVs conclusion was ridiculous and they referred their 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
The investigators view wasnt accepted by Mr and Mrs T. They said the local weather 
forecasts (at the end of 2020) had recently said that winds would gust up to 106 mph, but the 
investigator had refused to accept that type of weather as having existed. They said the wind 
conditions being used when deciding their complaint was miles from their property and, 
therefore, irrelevant. This is because the wind speeds where they live are unique given the 
circumstances of the location of the property.
Subsequently, Mr and Mrs T asked the investigator what, if not the winds on the night in 
question, had caused the damage. They repeated that Mr T had been able to put his hand in 
the gaps in the roofing, which had been created instantaneously by the wind conditions. 
They said that in order for their claim to be refused we would have to prove, by measuring 
the wind gusts at their home, that the damage was not caused by the wind  we are unable 
to do that. Mr and Mrs T questioned how the investigator could say the pictures dont 
indicate the damage to the roof was caused by a storm  did she have appropriate 
expertise?
Mr and Mrs T said that LV had admitted to having not treated them fairly and it had paid 
them £100 in this regard. They pointed out that LV had stopped saying the damage hadnt 
been caused by the wind. So they believed the investigator had acted improperly in not 
asking LV to pay their claim. Mr and Mrs T asked that the complaint be escalated, and so it 
has been referred to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have what is normally referred to as a perils-based insurance policy. This is 
one where cover is only provided for specific events, such as storm or fire. If damage is 
caused to their home because of something other than one of the perils, the policy wont 
cover the damage. While a consumer might have noticed that there were high winds at the 
time of damage to their home, the policy would only cover that damage if the wind was 
strong enough to be considered a storm.
In this case Mr and Mrs T believe that high winds caused damage to their conservatory roof. 
So I must firstly consider whether the wind speeds at the time of the damage would be 
considered to be a storm. LV hasnt defined what a storm is in its policy document. However, 
it is quite standard across the industry that the definition of storm requires wind speeds (be 
that constant or gusts) of 55 mph.
Mr and Mrs T reported that they first noticed water coming through the roof of their 
conservatory on a day in late April 2020. I have looked at the weather records from the 
closest weather station to Mr and Mrs Ts home and I accept there were strong winds around 
the time of the damage. However, the maximum gusts didnt approach the speed needed to 
be considered a storm. On that basis I cant conclude that the damage was caused by a 
one-off event of storm.I have noted what Mr and Mrs T have said about their home, its costal location, and the 
distance from the closest weather station. I accept that costal weather conditions are often 
more severe than that further inland. However, the weather station is also in a coastal 
location and the distance is not that significant. Had the wind speed readings been close to 
those required to be described as a storm, I might consider the distance could have made a 
difference. But the recorded wind speeds are more than 20 mph below the threshold to be 
considered a storm. 
Mr and Mrs T have said that it has to be proved that there wasnt a storm at their home on 
the night of the damage. That is not the case. Technically, a policyholder is responsible for 
proving they have a valid claim under an insurance policy. In reality, it is normally a joint 
responsibility between the policyholder and the insurer, but that doesnt change the fact that 
an insured peril has to be proven to have happened.
I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs T, but I am not persuaded the evidence in this case is 
sufficient for me to be able to conclude the damage to their roof was caused by something 
that is covered by their insurance policy. 
LV admitted that it hadnt administered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint particularly well when it 
was received. It offered them £100 compensation for this. Having considered this issue, I am 
satisfied that is an appropriate amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman