DRN-3984906
The complaint
Mr V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a romance scam. 
Mr V is making his complaint with the assistance of solicitors. To make my decision easier to 
read, I refer only to Mr V. I do this even where it was his representatives rather than Mr V 
who said or did something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr V made a connection online with a person Ill refer to as C. Mr V 
explains that he spoke to C on the phone every day and that she was personable, leading to 
him quickly developing feelings for her.
After speaking for around three months, Mr V wanted to move the relationship forwards. 
C told Mr V that she was a domestic worker working abroad. Mr V understood that flight 
tickets would be expensive for her and so agreed to help C pay for tickets so they could 
meet in person. He made a payment of £718.21 on 16 April 2019, followed by a payment of 
£2,000 on 25 April 2019. These were both international payments and HSBC spoke to him 
on the phone before the payment of £2,000 was released.
After Mr V had sent these funds, C sent him details of some flights she said shed booked. 
She then told Mr V that she was having problems obtaining a visa for the visit and asked him 
if he could help with the cost. On 26 May 2019, Mr V made a further international payment of 
£3,000. Unfortunately, Mr V wasnt speaking to someone with genuine intentions. He was 
really interacting with a fraudster who was deceiving him. Mr V discovered hed been the 
victim of a scam when C told him she needed money urgently because shed been arrested 
at the airport. 
Mr V reported the scam to HSBC in November 2022. HSBC declined Mr Vs claim for a 
refund, so he made a complaint. In its final response, HSBC said it was not able to 
reimburse the money that had been sent. It said the payments were not covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (The CRM) and explained that whilst it had tried to 
contact the beneficiary accounts, recovery of the funds was not guaranteed. Mr V remained 
unhappy with this position and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into the matter but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
She didnt think HSBC should have been concerned about the first payment Mr V made. She 
said he often made payments for similar, and higher, amounts. She noted that HSBC had 
stopped the payment of £2,000 that Mr V made just over a week later. She explained that in 
the call recording shed listened to, Mr V had told the bank the payment was going to a travel 
agent in China. She didnt think HSBC needed to have a more detailed conversation with 
him. She noted that Mr Vs bank statements showed that he often travelled abroad and that 
hed recently been to Asia, so she didnt think the bank ought to have been concerned about 
what hed said. She noted that the final payment Mr V made happened a few weeks after 
this conversation and was still for a relatively unremarkable amount. She thought what Mr V 
had previously told the bank about potentially making more payments to China would have 
increased this payments legitimacy. Overall, she didnt think HSBC had acted incorrectly by 
making the payments and she thought the bank had done all it could to try and recover the 
funds. She thought the prospect of any money remaining more than two years after the 
disputed payments were made was slim. 
Mr V did not agree with everything our Investigator concluded. He accepted that it was not 
going to be possible for HSBC to recover the funds now, but he didnt think HSBCs 
intervention was proportionate at the time. He thought HSBC should have asked more 
questions about the context of the payments such as why he was planning a trip to China 
and how hed initially been contacted. He felt that if HSBC had spent more time, care and 
diligence in its communication with him, it would have uncovered the scam. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am unable to fairly or reasonably say that HSBC should take responsibility 
to refund the money Mr V has lost. I know this is not the news he was hoping for, so I will 
explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. Theres no debate that Mr V authorised the payments 
in dispute. At the time he sent the money, Mr V agreed to the payments and wanted them to 
be made. Although he did not intend for the money to go to a fraudster, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the general terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mr V is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have realised that Mr V was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud and intervened before allowing these payments to go through. Theres a balance 
to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then 
responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate 
payments. For this reason, I dont consider its reasonable to expect HSBC to ask questions 
about payments that arent unusual or out of character.The first payment Mr V made to C was for just over £700. Even though an international 
payment was unusual for Mr V, I dont think this payment was so out of character that HSBC 
should have immediately suspected he was at risk of financial harm from fraud. Looking at 
how this payment would have appeared to HSBC, I dont think it was inappropriate for the 
bank to allow it to be made without challenge. 
HSBC did intervene on the second payment Mr V made and contacted him to discuss the 
payment of £2,000 he was attempting. Ive thought very carefully about this interaction and 
whether it should have gone further than it did. Some of Mr Vs losses could have potentially 
been avoided if the scam had been uncovered at this point so I can see why he is looking 
back to see if things could or should have played out differently. But I am not persuaded that 
HSBC missed a clear opportunity to stop Mr V losing money to a scam. Looking at all of the 
circumstances as they were at that point in time, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC 
not to have identified that Mr V was in the midst of a scam. 
Having listened to the recording of the conversation, HSBC established that the purpose of 
the payment was to pay a travel agent in China. Mr V spoke with confidence and he was 
appreciative that the bank had taken the time to contact him and check that it was a payment 
he wanted to make. The bank asked Mr V how hed obtained the bank details and whether 
hed spoken to anyone on the phone that had called him recently and told him that his 
money was at risk. Its clear from these questions that HSBC was concerned that Mr V might 
be falling victim to an email intercept scam or a scam where a trusted company is 
impersonated. I think it would be expecting too much of HSBC to play amateur detective and 
carry out extensive questioning aimed at disturbing a romance scam when the information 
Mr V had given the bank did not display any characteristics that are typically associated with 
that type of harm. Looking at all of the circumstances as they were at that point in time, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to allow the payment to be made. This means 
that I cant fairly say it ought to have gone further than it did. 
HSBC did not challenge the third payment that Mr V lost to the scam. This was a payment of 
£3,000 that Mr V made online around a month after hed spoken to HSBC on the phone. But 
I dont think the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential ongoing scam risk. 
The payment wasnt made in quick succession to the other disputed payments and there 
wasnt an obvious pattern to the scam spending that ought to have stood out as concerning. 
The payment appeared unremarkable at the time it was made. Im also mindful that Mr V 
had previously indicated to HSBC that he might want to make further payments to China. 
Taking all of these factors into account, I dont consider its reasonable to expect HSBC to 
ask questions about payments that arent particularly unusual or out of character.
As I think HSBC processed the disputed payments correctly, I cant conclude that it should 
have done anything more to prevent the loss that Mr V went on to suffer. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether HSBC should have refunded Mr V for any other reason.
There is a CRM Code which is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push payment 
scams. HSBC has signed up to the CRM Code, but as the CRM Code does not apply to 
international payments or payments made before 28 May 2019, it cannot be applied in this 
case. This means HSBC is not obligated to refund Mr V because of any obligation under the 
CRM Code.  
Ive looked at the steps HSBC took when it found out about the scam and whether it could 
have recovered any of the money that Mr V sent. HSBC did contact the receiving banks to 
see if any funds remained. Given that Mr V reported the fraud more than two years after the 
payments were made, I think HSBC has done as much as it could reasonably be expected 
to do to try and help him once it knew what had happened.I am sorry to hear about what happened to Mr V. Discovering that he was being deceived by 
a person he thought he was building a future with is a very distressing experience and I dont 
underestimate the impact this matter has had on him. But having considered everything, 
I am unable to fairly conclude that HSBC should have prevented the loss. Nor can I see 
there are any other grounds on which I could say that HSBC should, fairly and reasonably, 
bear responsibility for it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman