DRN-1764917
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Ms S says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms S took out on a store card account in November 
2002. It was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Ms S says she was told in store that she would be covered if she took time off work to look 
after her daughter. She says she agreed to have the policy with this in mind. But she says 
when she went to claim benefit for this reason she was told she was not covered. She thinks 
AXA mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive first of all looked into whether Ms S was given a choice to have the policy. Having done 
so, I think AXA made Ms S aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application 
form from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is 
presented as optional. 
It says on the separate section for PPI: only sign this box if you require account cover. Ms 
S then signs next to this statement. Had Ms S not wanted the PPI she could have completed 
the application without signing separately for it.
So, on balance, I think Ms S was aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out 
by signing the separate section on the application form.
This application was made by Ms S completing an application in a store. So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Ms S enough information so she 
could make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Ms S would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Ms S has told us she had sick pay from her employer. Ms S hasnt been able to recall how 
much this was but working in a public sector role it is more likely to be as much as 6 months 
full pay and 6 months half pay. But after considering her circumstances, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any provisions Ms S would receive. I think taking into 
consideration what Ms S has said about her circumstances and what I have concluded, the 
PPI would have been useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. I also 
couldnt see any significant or limiting terms that would have affected Ms Ss decision to take 
the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Ms Ss decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ms S says she was told by a member of staff in the store that she would be covered if she 
had to take time off work to look after her daughter, if she became ill. Ms S says she only 
proceeded with having cover as, being covered for this, or thinking she would be covered for 
this, gave her peace of mind. But when she went to claim she was told that she wasnt in fact 
covered for being a carer. 
I have looked at the policy terms and can see that this is not part of the cover Ms S would 
have received within this PPI that she was sold with her store card. The accidents, sickness 
and unemployment cover related to Ms S only. Ms S says that if she was aware of this she 
wouldnt have taken it as she already had sick pay but as I have already concluded I think 
she would have taken the policy anyway as it would have been useful to her.
I cant be sure what was said between the store employee and Ms S at the time she 
completed the application. I do acknowledge what Ms S has said about the sale and what 
she can recollect but without a more detailed account of what happened, or further 
information to support what she has said, I cant safely conclude that the policy was sold 
how she says it was. I just havent seen enough to fairly make that conclusion.
I know that it will be a disappointment to Ms S, but I havent been able to find a reason to 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman