DRN-3611787
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Hitachi Personal Finance) 
(HPF) unfairly rejected a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) about goods he bought with a loan from HPF.
What happened
Mr C took out a fixed sum loan agreement with HPF in November 2019 to buy two sofas
from a supplier that Ill call N. The sofas (one two seater and one three seater) cost nearly
£2,000. Mr C paid a deposit of £500 and agreed to repay the loan over 24 months at around
£65 a month. In May 2020 he contacted N because the sofas were creaky and he thought
there was something wrong. N arranged for a specialist technician (from a company that
Ill refer to as H) to inspect both sofas in August 2020 but he didnt find any faults. The
technician thought the noise was the result of placing the sofas on a laminate floor and he
suggested felt pads should be added to the feet to alleviate the sound.
Mr C remained unhappy. He felt the technician didnt inspect very thoroughly. He says the
technician said hed check the noise but nothing else and based his conclusions on what
hed seen in other cases - not the issues present with these particular sofas. Mr C tried
adding foot pads but this didnt help - the sofas continued to creak and other issues
appeared. Mr C emailed and chased N over several months but N didnt provide any further
assistance.
Mr C complained to HPF in January 2021 and another technician from H inspected the sofas
a few months later. The second technician found several manufacturing faults - he thought
the internal framework had failed and there was a problem with upholstery, amongst other
things. HPF sent a copy of his report to N but N said the second technician had worked on
the basis the sofas were nearly new - when they were over a year old at that point - and the
first inspection was more reliable. In light of the conflicting views, HPF asked H to consider
the matter again. H provided a desktop review of both reports by a technical manager who
found no manufacturing faults and HPF rejected Mr Cs claim.
Mr C didnt think that was fair. He referred the matter to our service and one of our
investigators considered the evidence. He was satisfied that the second inspection identified
several manufacturing defects which seemed consistent with issues Mr C reported early on.
He didnt think it was likely that these issues were caused by the sofas being placed on
laminate flooring. He was satisfied, on balance, that the goods were probably faulty at the
point of supply. And he recommended HPF should allow Mr C to reject the sofas and refund
any payments made towards the finance, including the deposit, plus interest and pay Mr C
£75 for any inconvenience caused.
HPF didnt agree. It says (in summary) these issues werent raised until seven months after
delivery and the first technician who inspected the sofas found no manufacturing defects at
that time. It thinks the pressure of uneven flooring probably caused unbalanced pressure on
the frame resulting in damage and creaking - and says N cant be expected to know that a
customer has an uneven floor. 
HPF suggested another expert should be appointed to provide a final opinion but Mr C didnt 
agree. He says the floor isnt uneven and, if laminate flooring is the issue, this should have 
been pointed out before sale. He feels hes waited long enough for this matter to be resolved 
- the sofas have been inspected twice already and manufacturing faults, which were present 
when the sofas were first used, have been identified. Mr C wants to reject the goods and 
receive a full refund and compensation. And HPF asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I was minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint but my 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators - and I was inclined to reach a slightly 
different outcome overall. I thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to consider my 
provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. 
I sent my provisional decision to the parties on 8 July 2022. Ive set out what I decided 
provisionally and why below and this forms part of my final decision.  
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr C purchased these sofas with credit provided by HPF and he brings this complaint about
HPF to the Financial Ombudsman Service in relation to a claim he made under section 75 of
the CCA. Broadly speaking, this section makes a lender (HPF here) equally liable with a
supplier (N) for breach of contract and misrepresentation, in certain circumstances. One of
section 75s strict requirements is that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) link must exist.
It looks as if Mr C ordered the sofas from N that he paid for using the loan HPF provided.
And HPF seems to accept that the necessary relationship was in place.
Im required to take taking relevant law (among other things) into account when I make my
decision (although its not my role to apply the law - only a court can do that). I think section
75 is relevant here. So Ive gone on to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or
misrepresentation.
Im satisfied that N was required (under the Consumer Rights Act 2015) (CRA) to ensure
that these sofas were of satisfactory quality when they were supplied. What amounts to
satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances. Essentially, its what a
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory taking into account all the relevant
circumstances, such as price and description. And it includes fitness for the purpose for
which such goods are usually supplied - as well as appearance and finish, safety and
durability. In this case, the goods were brand new and I think Mr C had a reasonable
expectation that theyd be fault free on delivery.
I dont think theres any dispute that the goods were delivered in December 2019. Mr C says
they werent unwrapped or used until April 2020 however, due to some internal home
renovations which were delayed as a result of the pandemic. Mr C has been consistent
about this throughout (judging from his contact with HPF and this service) and I think what
he says sounds plausible.
It looks as if Mr C raised a complaint with N in May 2020  not long after the sofas were
unpacked  because they were creaking and noisy. I dont think a reasonable person would
expect new sofas to make the sort of sound that Mr C describes. And its understandable hethought there was something wrong and wanted N to investigate and put things right.
N arranged for the sofas to be inspected by an independent technician  which seems
reasonable - in August 2020. Ive seen his report and read it carefully. I accept the technician
found no faults. In his view the creaking (which he seems to accept was present) was
caused by the sofas being located on a laminate floor. He recommended felt pads should be
applied to the feet to alleviate this, and it appears Mr C put these measures in place, but
things didnt improve.
HPF organised a second inspection by a different technician who also worked for H in March 
2021. Again Ive read the relevant report carefully. In summary, the second technician found 
the sofa arms push in more than they should and the sofas make a creaking noise, despite 
the addition of pads, and some cushions were mis-shapen. 
The technician put this down to a number of faults present in each sofa. Specifically, in the 
two seater, he found arm cards are flexing due to not being correctly stapled which causes 
noise and spring clips on the front rail are tearing through the platform cloth as clips have not 
been lined with adequate protection. And, in the three seater sofa, he found an arm card is 
flexing causing noise and theres an item protruding where two pieces of foam have been 
glued creating a hard lump on the corner of the interior which can be felt when seated. He 
considered all the defects in both sofas had a manufacturing cause.
I can see this inspection took 60 minutes - three times as long as the first. Im satisfied the
second report is fairly detailed and I think the second technicians conclusions seem
reasonable. I find it difficult to see why this report was rejected. Im not persuaded by the
suggestion that the second technicians opinion must be wrong because it looks as if he
thought the goods were a month old when theyd been delivered more than a year before.
And, if there was any real doubt about that, I think the second technician could simply have
been asked to comment - but Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was.
I appreciate HPF did go back to H asking for clarification and H provided comments on both
inspections from a manager (who Ill refer to as the reviewer). I have considered the queries
put to the reviewer as well as his replies. I note the reviewer considers both technicians were
experienced and well qualified but he goes on to prefer the findings of the first technician. Im 
not persuaded by the reviewers reasons for doing so. I find his comments to be somewhat 
vague and unclear. And I think HPF probably thought so as well - I note the case handler 
struggled to understand the outcome of the review at the time and had to ask H if the 
reviewer thought there was a manufacturing defect or not.
I think the reviewer fails (crucially) to deal (in any meaningful way) with the detailed findings
of the second technician  who actually saw the sofas in situ and inspected for about an
hour. The reviewer doesnt, for example, explain how placing the sofas on a laminate floor 
(as suggested by the first report) caused the specific problems identified by the second
technician. The reviewer makes reference to issues resulting from conditions due to heat
etc or flexing of the floor but I see nothing in either technicians report to suggest that heat
was a material factor here. And it seems to me that springs, for example, were either lined
properly or they werent. 
Like the investigator, I find it difficult to see how the types of defect identified at the second 
inspection could have occurred through placing the sofas on a hard floor. I accept the 
reviewer says hes seen other instances before where sofas placed on laminate floors are 
noisy but that doesnt explain the internal creaking and other faults identified at the second 
inspection.
I note the reviewer was asked to consider if problems may have been caused by thepressure of uneven flooring. Its unclear to me where this idea came from. I think it may
have been raised by N (based on an email sent in March 2021) but Ive seen no evidence to
show that the floor is uneven. Mr C says theres nothing wrong with it. And, as far as I can
see from the inspection reports, neither technician says the floor wasnt level or states that
uneven flooring caused the problems. I think the reviewer has, in any event, confirmed that
an uneven floor would not have caused these issues. When asked about this he said No,
the uneven floor would more than likely have not affected the frame.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded that locating these sofas on laminate flooring is likely
to have caused the faults found at the second inspection. But, even if Im wrong about that, I
dont think its unusual to find laminate floors in lounges and living rooms. So, if these
particular sofas were unsuitable for that sort of floor, I think it would have been reasonable to
make this clear at the point of sale. And, even if I wasnt satisfied that the goods were of
unsatisfactory quality due to the presence of manufacturing defects (which, for the reasons
set out, I am) Id be minded to find they were unfit for purpose. I say this because I dont
think a reasonable person would expect sofas to be unsuitable for use on a laminate floor, in
the usual course of events.
Having reviewed all of the evidence available, I find the report of the second technician to be
more persuasive. Put simply, I think it seems to be thorough and fact based and the findings
and explanation about whats gone wrong (and why) seem to make sense. Im satisfied that
the faults found are probably manufacturing issues and Im minded to conclude that both
sofas had faults present when they were supplied. 
I think the defects identified are relatively significant. I consider theyre likely to be annoying, 
to say the least - in items purchased specifically with comfort in mind especially. And, more 
likely than not, such faults will impact adversely on the use and durability of the goods in the 
longer term. I dont think a reasonable person would expect these sorts of issues to be 
present. And I find the sofas were likely of unsatisfactory quality when they were supplied - 
meaning theres been a breach of contract.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied the sofas were of unsatisfactory quality when Mr
C got them and he reported issues within six months of delivery. Under the CRA, a
consumer is usually entitled to repair or replacement in this situation - provided this isnt
disproportionate and wont take too long or cause too much inconvenience. And, if a
consumer agrees to repairs but they dont work, theres a final right to reject.
I think N had had the opportunity to fix this furniture in August 2020 when it was first
inspected. Im satisfied that steps were taken then in an effort to rectify faults present (by
placing felt pads on the feet). But, these didnt work  the same issues were present when
the second inspection took place some months later. Im inclined to find Mr C has waited
long enough for this matter to be resolved. I agree with the investigator its fair and
reasonable for Mr C to be allowed to reject the goods. And Im minded to find HPF should
cancel the loan, arrange for the sofas to be collected and refund the deposit plus interest.
Ive given some thought as to what, if any, further refunds should be made. The CRA says a
full refund should be provided if the right to reject is exercised within the first six months
(after delivery). I cant see that Mr C asked to reject the goods within this time. But I think this
was probably due to some fairly exceptional circumstances  in that there were a number of
delays not only in using the furniture but also having the problems investigated properly.
Working out whats fair in this situation is not a scientific exercise. Weighing everything up,
Im minded to find it is fair overall for HPF to refund all of the payments made as the
investigator recommended.I can see its probably been inconvenient for Mr C to have to contact various parties over
many months to sort things out. I understand he bought the sofas for a relative, who has a
disability, as a gift for his new home - but the faults present means the goods couldnt be
used as reasonably expected. I cant consider the impact of this directly on Mr Cs relation
(as he's not party to the agreement). But, I think Mr C himself is likely to have found the
situation quite distressing, in these particular circumstances. And Im minded to find HPF
should pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider what Id said and let me have any additional comments
or new evidence by 22 July 2022 and Id review all the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision. HPF accepted my provisional findings. Mr C replied summarising 
some of his earlier comments and evidence - and he confirmed how distressing he found the 
whole matter. 
I accept the supply of these faulty sofas has put Mr C to some trouble and upset. I took this 
into account in my provisional decision. The parties havent provided any new information 
and, having reviewed all the evidence available, I see no reasonable grounds to depart from 
my provisional conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc to:-
1. End the loan agreement and arrange for the sofas to be collected at no additional 
cost to Mr C;
2. Refund the deposit and any payments made towards the finance;
3. Pay interest on the refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement;
4. Remove any information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file; and
5. Pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman