DRN-1490298
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a personal loan. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy provided cover for Mr S if he couldn't 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr 
S, so the key question I need to consider is:
-           Did the society give Mr S information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he was 
buying?
If the answer to that question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr S is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S says Nationwide put him under pressure to buy the policy and said he wouldnt get the 
loan he wanted if he didnt take the PPI. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Mr S and Nationwide when he took out the loan. I'm also mindful that 
these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can 
fade over time.
Mr S applied for his loan and the PPI over the phone. A credit agreement was then 
produced, and I note that the PPI is referred to on the document as Optional Credit Insurance.  And there is nothing on the agreement to suggest that buying the PPI was a 
condition of getting the loan.
So without anything else to support what Mr S has told me, I don't think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Nationwide didn't make him aware the PPI was optional. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr S, so it didnt have to review his work-related 
benefits to assess whether or not the cover was suitable for him. Mr S had to decide for 
himself whether the PPI was right for him.
Mr S might, on reflection, think the policy cost a lot. But the loan agreement set out what he 
was borrowing to pay for the PPI, the interest that would be charged on that particular bit of 
the loan and the total cost. So it seems likely Mr S was made aware of the overall cost and 
found it acceptable.
Mr S satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his 
circumstances dont suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting the 
policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-
existing medical conditions).
Its possible the information the society gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said, Mr S was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think Mr S would still 
have taken out the policy.
Mr S has mentioned that he's made successful PPI claims in connection with other products. 
But we assess each case on its own merits. And having done so in this case, I'm ot 
persuaded that this PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman