DRN-3068268
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked and closed her accounts, without 
telling her why.
What happened
On 5 August 2019, Metro blocked Ms Ys ISA and savings account. It then contacted her to 
request information and documents in order to complete a review of her accounts. At first, 
Ms Y didnt answer Metros calls or reply to its emails, but she did later reply to Metro and 
provide all of the information it requested by March 2020, save for statements from one of 
her other bank accounts, which she felt was unrealistic because they dated back a couple of 
years.
Metro didnt unblock Ms Ys accounts and wouldnt give her any more information when she 
called to chase, so she complained. Metro declined Ms Ys complaint and later issued a 
notice to close Ms Ys account. Metro gave her 60 days to make alternative banking 
arrangements.
Metro released Ms Ys funds after it sent the notice to close letter, but Ms Y remained 
unhappy with how shed been treated and said she felt discriminated against.
Our investigator looked at Ms Ys complaint, but didnt uphold it. She said Metro was entitled 
to block the accounts, and that Metro had taken a reasonable period of time, in light of the 
circumstances of the review.
Ms Y remained unhappy with Metro, so she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to what Ms Y said about Metros actions and the impact they had on her. She 
made numerous phone calls to establish what was going on, and complied with Metros 
various requests for information. She was understandably frustrated at not having access to 
her funds and I note her ISA matured in February 2020, three months before Metro released 
them.
With that being said, in order to uphold Ms Ys complaint, Id need to be persuaded that 
Metro treated Ms Y unfairly or did something it wasnt entitled to do, taking into account all 
the circumstances of this particular case. And, having reviewed all of the information Metro 
has provided, I dont think it needs to do anything to put matters right for Ms Y. Ill explain 
why.
Account block
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have numerous legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they must comply. As part of those obligations, sometimes 
banks have to review their customers accounts and request certain information or 
documents. While the review is ongoing, theyre entitled to block the accounts. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied Metro was entitled to take the actions it 
did. Metro has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
Ms Ys accounts and, having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations in doing so.
I understand Ms M wants to know why Metro blocked her accounts and why the review 
lasted so long. However, Metro isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for the block and 
ongoing review, so I cant say it did anything wrong by not telling Ms Y when it first blocked 
the account, or when she subsequently chased Metro for updates.
Its not the case that I dont recognise the frustration Ms Y went through, its simply that 
Metro was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions 
of Ms Ys account, when it blocked and reviewed her accounts. So, because I cant say 
Metro did anything wrong, I cant reasonably tell it to take actions to put things right for Ms Y.
Ms Ys accounts were blocked for nine months, which will of course have felt like a long time 
for Ms Y. And if, having looked at Metros file, I felt it had delayed matters or taken longer 
than it should have, Id ask it to compensate Ms Y for the delay. However, while I cant tell 
Ms Y what was happening during the block, I have reviewed its actions during that time and I 
am satisfied Metro didnt cause any delays that would warrant an award of compensation.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ys accounts  which both Metro and Ms Y had to comply 
with  say that Metro could close the accounts at any time by giving two months notice, or 
immediately and without notice, under certain circumstances. 
Because Metro gave Ms Y the required notice period in accordance with the terms of 
business, I cant say it treated Ms Y unfairly. And theres no obligation on Metro to disclose 
the reason for its decision, so I cant reasonably force it to do so against its wishes.
Discrimination
In terms of discrimination, our investigator has explained our Services role. That is to say 
that it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that 
decision, we will consider various factors including relevant law and what we consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Metro has breached the Equality Act 
2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case and, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
that Metros actions were motivated by its duty to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations.I know this isnt the answer Ms Y was hoping for, and I appreciate the limited information Ive 
given her wont answer many of the questions she had. But I hope she can take some 
comfort from what Ive said and the knowledge that of an independent third-party has 
reviewed Metros actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman