DRN-3802321
The complaint
Ms E complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and their decision to 
initially decline her claim, before providing her with a settlement offer that she feels is 
unsatisfactory.
What happened
Ms E held a home insurance policy that was underwritten by RSA. On 18 February 2022, Ms 
E contacted RSA to make a claim on this policy, after her roof had sustained damage 
following a storm.
RSA instructed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as B, to attend Ms Es home and inspect the 
damage to her roof. This inspection took place on 26 February. But in the time between B 
attending Ms Es property and when the damage occurred, Ms E had arranged for a local 
roof contractor, who Ill refer to as X to repair the damage. So, when B attended the 
property, they saw no visible damage to the roof. And they felt the damage inside Ms Es 
home was consistent with a leak that had been present over a period of time, rather than 
due to a storm. So, B recommended that the claim be declined.
RSA relied on the report B submitted and declined Ms Es claim. Ms E was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms E didnt think RSAs decision to decline the claim was fair. She explained shed 
instructed X to complete temporary repairs as her home wouldve been uninhabitable without 
this. And she explained X had recommended the whole roof be replaced, due to the damage 
the storm had caused. So, she thought RSA should arrange for her roof to be replaced or to 
provide her with a settlement amount that would cover Xs costs to do this work.
RSA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had acted fairly 
when relying on the report provided by B, as B was the expert who had attended Ms Bs 
property. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms E remained unhappy 
with this response, so she referred her complaint to us. 
While the complaint was with our service, RSA explained they were reviewing their initial 
decision, as Ms E had provided them with images taken by X before they completed a 
temporary repair. And following this review, RSA decided to offer Ms E a settlement amount 
of £1,203.13 which was intended to repair the area of roof shown to be damaged by the 
storm and any internal damage related to that section of the roof. But they explained they 
wouldnt be replacing the whole roof, as they didnt think there was any evidence to show the 
whole roof was damaged solely by the storm. 
Ms E rejected this offer, and she maintained her belief the whole roof would need replacing 
based on the advice and quotes provided by X.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and they felt the settlement offer put forward by 
RSA was a fair one. They explained that, at the time RSA declined Ms Es claim, there was 
no evidence to show any damage to the roof. So, our investigator thought RSA acted fairly at 
this point in time, relying on Bs report. But they recognised X had taken photographs of the 
damage before the repair had been completed. And they thought RSA had acted fairly by 
asking B to consider these and from this, offer Ms E a settlement amount to recognise the 
damage that could be shown in these photos.
But crucially, our investigator didnt think RSA were unfair to refuse Ms Es request of a total 
roof replacement, as our investigator didnt think there was evidence to suggest this was 
required solely due to storm damage. And although Ms E had provided quotes from X stating 
this was needed, our investigator didnt think the quote from X could be seen as 
independent, as X stood to profit from completing the work. So, our investigator didnt think 
RSA needed to do anything more than the offer they had already put forward.
Ms E didnt agree. She thought our service should be able to rely on the quotes and 
documentation provided by X. And she explained it was unreasonable to expect her to 
obtain a surveyors report at a significant cost to herself given her personal situation. Ms E 
maintained her belief the offer put forward by RSA was unfair and wouldnt provide her with 
the funds to complete the necessary repairs to her roof. As Ms E didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the settlement offer put forward by RSA is a fair one. And I think 
RSAs initial decision to decline the claim was reasonable, based on the information they 
had available to them at the time. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms E. I want to reassure Ms E 
Ive considered at length her personal circumstances and how these are likely to have made 
the situation shes found herself in worse. I appreciate Ms E took out her insurance policy to 
help protect her financially in situations such as this one. So, when RSA initially declined her 
claim, and then offered her a settlement which was for less than the quotes shed been 
provided by X, I can understand why Ms E would feel as though shed been unfairly treated.
But for me to say RSA should do something more than they have already, I need to see 
evidence that satisfies me theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied RSA 
were unfair to decline the claim initially, and it was an error for them to do so. Or, if I think 
they acted fairly here, Id need to be satisfied that the settlement offer theyve made since is 
an unreasonable one and that it fails to fall in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
Ms E held. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Ms E held. These terms explain in both the 
Buildings and Contents sections that Ms E was insured for damage to your 
buildings/contents by specific causes including fire, storm, flood, escape of water and 
subsidence. The terms and conditions also go on to explain that damage caused by 
general maintenance, wear and tear isnt covered under the policy.
So, for RSA to accept Ms Es claim, they first needed to be satisfied that there was damage, 
and that this damage was caused by a specific insurance event. In this case, Ms E was 
claiming the event was a storm.
RSA instructed B, an independent surveyor, to inspect Ms Es home and provide a report. Ive read this report at length and considered the images that were included within it. It 
confirms that at the time of inspection, Ms Es roof had been repaired to a level that meant B 
was unable to see any damage that looked as though it was caused by a storm. Ms E 
doesnt dispute this fact, as shes explained she needed to instruct X to complete a repair to 
ensure her home remained habitable. I understand why Ms E did this, and Im not 
suggesting she was wrong to do so. But I think this impacted Bs ability to assess the 
damage at that point in time.
I can also see B felt the internal damage suggested a leak over an extended period of time, 
rather than it being caused due to the recent storm. So, because of this and their being no 
evidence to show any damage on the external roof, B recommended the claim be declined 
as there was no evidence of an insurable event. As B were the appointed expert, and with 
no other evidence available to RSA at that time, I think RSA were fair to rely on this report 
and so, I dont think I can say they acted unreasonably when declining the claim.
But its not in dispute that Ms E has since provided photos taken by X, before they 
completed the repair. And I would expect RSA to take these into consideration, which I can 
see theyve done, referring them onto B so B were able to decide whether the claim should 
be accepted instead.
And having done so, RSA have offered a settlement of £1,203.13 to Ms E. So, I think its 
been accepted by RSA, after consultation with B, that there was damage caused by a storm 
and so, an insurable event that is covered under the terms of Ms Es policy.
But Im aware Ms E feels the settlement offer is an unreasonable one, as shes been told by 
X the entire roof needs to be replaced. While I understand why Ms E would rely on the 
opinion of X, I dont think this means RSA should. This is because I dont think X, or any 
quote they provide, can be seen as independent as X would be the company completing the 
repair work. So, they will profit off any repair work undertaken. 
From the photos Ive seen, these show only part of Ms Es roof as being damaged by the 
storm. And as Ive already explained above, for any repairs to be considered under the 
policy, the damage itself must first have arisen from an insurable event. So, without 
independent evidence to show the entire roof was damaged purely due to the storm, I dont 
think I can say RSA should replace the whole roof or offer a settlement to cover the cost of 
this.
And in Bs initial report, they expressed their belief that the inside of Ms Es home, and in 
particular the ceiling, was in poor condition and this was likely caused due to an existing and 
gradual leak that had been in place for some time. So, I think RSA were fair to continue to 
rely on this and offer a settlement amount for the contents that related directly to the area 
impacted by the storm damaged roof above.
Because of the above, I havent seen any evidence that satisfies me the settlement offer 
RSA have put forward is unfair. Or, that its been made outside of the terms and conditions 
of the policy Ms E held. 
Putting things right
Its not in dispute that Ms E has not yet received the settlement offer put forward by RSA. 
And that this offer was put to Ms E after RSAs initial complaint response, due to additional 
evidence being submitted for their consideration.
As I think this offer is a fair one, I think this is an offer RSA should now pay Ms E, so she is 
able to make arrangements to repair the parts of the roof damaged by the storm in February 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Es complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Raise payment for the total settlement offer of £1,203.13.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman