DRN-3131708
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain Barclays Bank UK PLC misled them when they issued an 
agreement in principle (AIP) for a mortgage. Barclays declined to offer them a mortgage on 
the basis set out in the AIP. And Mrs R and Mr R say they incurred costs as a result.
 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr R approached Barclays Bank UK PLC about porting his and Mrs Rs 
existing mortgage to a new property and borrowing an additional amount. Barclays issued an 
AIP that, based on the interest rate products Mrs R and Mr R were interested in, they would 
lend to Mrs R and Mr R on the basis the ratio of the loan to the value of the property (LTV) 
wouldnt be more than 85%.
When Mrs R and Mr R made a full application, Barclays had changed their lending criteria in 
light of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. They would only lend up to 80% LTV. Mr R 
said he and Mrs R had accepted an offer on their property and made an offer on new 
property based on the AIP. He felt the AIP was misleading. To go ahead with their move, 
Mrs R and Mr R would have to take a mortgage with a new lender and pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) to Barclays. Mr R said to fund the ERC, they cancelled a holiday 
and lost their deposit of around £800.
Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong in relation to the mortgage application, 
although they paid Mr R and Mrs R £150 for delays in responding to their complaint. 
Mr R made a complaint to this service. By the time our investigator issued her view, Mrs R 
and Mr R had redeemed their mortgage with Barclays but, by then, werent subject to an 
ERC. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had treated Mrs R and Mr R unfairly and noted they 
hadnt incurred the ERC theyd been worried about. She didnt uphold their complaint. Since 
Mrs R and Mr R were unhappy with that outcome, their complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand it will have been frustrating for Mrs R and Mr R to find out Barclays 
wouldnt give them a mortgage in line with the AIP. But an AIP is not a promise to lend. It is 
only an indication of the amount a lender may be willing to lend. The actual amount of the 
loan and the terms a lender will offer are subject to the borrower making a full application, 
providing detailed financial information and meeting the lenders lending criteria at the time 
the application is made. 
Barclays AIP set out in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading that the amount it was 
willing to lend was based on the information provided at that time and the current market 
conditions. It said it could alter in line with changes in market conditions and it made clear 
Barclays wasnt obliged to lend. 
Mr R argues Barclays shouldnt have issued the AIP at all since his enquiries suggest the 
product the AIP was based on wasnt available. Even if hes right about that, I dont think it 
affects things. As Ive explained, and Mr Rs acknowledged, the AIP wasnt a guarantee of 
lending.
Barclays say their lending policy changed on the day of Mr Rs appointment to discuss the 
mortgage application and resulted from the impact of the pandemic. As a responsible lender, 
it was reasonable for Barclays to review its lending criteria given the impact the pandemic 
had on borrowers financial situations and property values. Changing their LTV criteria was a 
commercial decision Barclays could fairly make. 
Mr Rs unhappy about the time it took Barclays to tell him they wouldnt lend on the basis set 
out in the AIP. I understand Mrs R and Mr R initially approached Barclays in around mid-
August 2020. Because of a technical issue, the adviser wasnt able to process an application 
at the time of Mr Rs appointment later that month. But the adviser let Mr R know the 
application had been unsuccessful within a few days of that meeting. 
I dont think the time taken overall to give Mrs R and Mr R a decision was unreasonable. 
Businesses had to adapt to new ways of working in light of the pandemic, and deal with 
applications for payment deferrals and increased demand for mortgages because of the 
stamp duty holiday introduced by the government. 
Barclays have explained their decision not to lend to Mrs R and Mr R was based not only on 
its change in policy, but also on concerns about the affordability of the increased mortgage 
for Mrs R and Mr R. So, even if Barclays had managed to process the application before the 
policy change, I dont think the outcome would have been different.
Im pleased to hear Mrs R and Mr R didnt incur the ERC. But I dont think its fair to ask 
Barclays to reimburse the deposit they lost by cancelling their holiday, whether that 
happened before or after Barclays made their lending decision. Any costs Mrs R and Mr R 
incurred before Barclays decision, were at their own risk. And whilst the timetable for 
completing the sale and purchase affected whether an ERC had to be paid, Barclays had no 
control over the completion date. So, if Mrs R and Mr R chose to cancel the holiday before 
they knew if the ERC had to be paid, that was their choice.
I note Barclays paid Mrs R and Mr R £150 compensation for a delay in responding to their 
complaint. I think thats fair.  
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Barclays treated Mrs R and Mr R unfairly in relation 
to their mortgage application. So, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mrs R and 
Mr R, I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman