DRN-3349651
The complaint
Mr C complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr C has brought his complaint to us through his representative, but to keep things 
simpler, Ill just refer to Mr C.
Mr C took out three loans with 118 118 Money. In its final response letter, 118 118 Money 
said it upheld Mr Cs complaint about a loan it provided to him in November 2018. 
Mr C didnt feel that the lenders offer to put things right went far enough and so he 
approached this Service to investigate his complaint about other loans that 118 118 Money 
provided as follows: 
Loan Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan status
121/10/2017 £2,000 24 months £156.81 £3,763.44 Repaid with loan 2
230/05/2018 £2,342.92 24 months £181 £4,344Repaid with loan 3
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and whilst she didnt think that we could uphold 
Mr Cs complaint about loan 1, she did think that loan 2 shouldnt have been provided. She 
set out her findings in a letter explaining how shed come to her view. 118 118 Money 
disagreed with our adjudicator about loan 2. 
It mainly said that our adjudicator seemed to be relying on historic evidence of missed 
payments and the fact that Mr C was going over his credit card limits looked more like poor 
management and the result of interest being added to the account balance rather than an 
affordability issue.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
As 118 118 Money has agreed to uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 3 and do what is 
needed to put things right in line with what wed expect, and Mr C hasnt said any more 
about this, then I dont need to consider this loan further (save to mention it in the redress 
part of my decision). 
And as far as I can see, Mr C hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided this 
loan  so Im not upholding this part of Mr Cs complaint.   
But, like our adjudicator, I dont think 118 118 Money shouldve provided loan 2. Heres why I 
say this.
Mr C used loan 2 to repay the balance owing on loan 1 and top-up his borrowing with a 
further £650.
118 118 Money asked Mr C about his income and expenditure and also carried out credit 
checks. He said he was earning around £2,400 per month when he took out this loan and his 
monthly expenditure was approximately £821. 118 118 Money checked Mr Cs declared 
income using third party data. 
After allowing for the cost of the repayments he would have to make for the loan on top of 
his other monthly outgoings, 118 118 Money worked out that the repayments should still 
have been affordable for Mr C.
But I dont think 118 118 Money fully considered the information it saw on Mr Cs credit 
file. I think its fair to say that historic payment issues and money problems werent 
necessarily a reliable indicator of Mr Cs current financial situation. But 118 118 Money 
saw that Mr C had maxed out his credit cards  including one hed taken out just a couple 
of months previously and run up almost to its credit limit in the first month. It was also 
evident that Mr C had relied to some extent on using his credit cards for cash advances  
not just historically but also during the previous 12 months. This is a particularly 
expensive way to obtain spending money. 
And its hard to understand why Mr C wouldve needed to use a credit card with a £450 
credit limit if hed had the amount of disposable income 118 118 Moneys affordability 
assessment would appear to suggest. 
As well as this, the indications of financial difficulty are borne out by the fact that 118 118 
Money was able to see that Mr C was already spending a significant proportion of his 
income servicing his existing debt  around a third of his take home pay was needed to pay his existing credit commitments. I think 118 118 Money shouldve realised that he 
had become over-reliant on credit and his position had become unsustainable. 
Bearing in mind that 118 118 Money didnt know how its loan was going to be spent I think it 
shouldve recognised that Mr C simply wasnt in a strong enough financial position to be able 
to take on a further monthly repayment of £181 for this loan and that he most likely wouldnt 
be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the next two years. With the 
repayment for this loan as well, Mr C was committed to spending such a significant 
proportion of his income just on servicing debt that there was a serious risk he wouldnt be 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again during the loan term. 
So I dont think loan 2 shouldve been provided and 118 118 Money needs to put things 
right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mr C and 118 118 Money have confirmed that they accept my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and 118 118 Money for responding so promptly to my provisional decision to confirm 
acceptance.  
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that 118 118 Money should pay any additional redress. 
Mr C hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 118 118 
Money acted unfairly towards Mr C in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for lending that 
should not have been provided to him and thats unfair. In line with this Services approach, 
Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amounts he borrowed. 
So, if it hasnt already,118 118 Money should liaise with the debt owner in relation to loan 3 
as necessary and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
loans 2 and 3. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount 
If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr C.
Whilst its fair that Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about 
loans unfairly provided. So 118 118 Money should arrange the removal of any 
negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Cs complaint and Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman