DRN-4032394
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled a 
claim he made on his home insurance policy following a fire in his kitchen. 
Any reference to Lloyds includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr B has buildings and content insurance with Lloyds. 
Unfortunately in March 2022 Mr B had a fire in his kitchen just after Christmas and so he 
made a claim on his home insurance policy.
Lloyds sent a loss adjustor to go out and assess the damage. Following this a schedule of 
work was produced but Lloyds wasnt covering all of the kitchen cupboards. Mr B says he 
was concerned he wouldnt be able to get a match for the existing cabinets if the whole 
kitchen wasnt replaced due to the age of the kitchen. Mr B says Lloyds website states if a 
match cant be found it will replace the whole kitchen but has refused to do so for him.
Mr Bs property wasnt cleaned properly following the fire and wasnt checked by an 
electrician to ensure it was safe  which he says he was expecting. 
Mr B says he was without his kitchen for a period of eight months which led to an increase in 
costs for him since he wasnt able to cook at home so he was getting takeaways and using 
his microwave. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the way his claim was handled and so he complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds said its contractor was appointed to assess the damage to Mr Bs home and value 
the claim. Lloyds then provided Mr B with settlement options including providing Mr B with a 
cash settlement or having its own contractors carry out the work. Following this Lloyds said 
Mr B raised concerns over the safety of the electrics so it arranged for its contractor to go out 
and check the electrics. Lloyds said its contractor attempted to arrange the visit but Mr B 
declined. Lloyds have said its contractor have no concerns over the gas supply so wont be 
assessing that further. 
Lloyds said it offered to assist Mr B with the cleaning by appointing its contractor but Mr B 
told it the area had already been cleaned and needed to be redecorated. It offered its 
services to clean Mr Bs kitchen if he wanted to. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the response from Lloyds and so referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she didnt think there had been 
delays in dealing with Mr Bs claim. And could see evidence Lloyds had tried to assist Mr B 
with cleaning and the electrics but he had declined this. The investigator said if Mr B allows 
access and Lloyds determines the damaged units cant be repaired or restored then it should 
pay 50% of the value of any undamaged cupboards to reflect his loss of match.  
Lloyds didnt agree with the investigators view. It said it hadnt been given the opportunity to 
determine whether the damaged units could be repaired or replaced so it thought it was 
premature to agree to 50% of the cost of the undamaged units. 
Because Lloyds didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation. I have read and considered everything I have received. My role is to consider the 
evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision. I will focus on what I see as 
being the key issues. 
Delays in dealing with the claim
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. The fire 
in Mr Bs home was reported in March 2022, and Lloyds had the claim assessed and 
validated the following month. So I cant say there was a delay here. 
I have reviewed the claim notes and can see Lloyds presented Mr B with a number of 
options in proceeding with his claim and were waiting for him to make that choice. As a 
result the claim has gone on longer than necessary. But I cant say Lloyds are responsible 
for this. I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B but overall I think Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably, and so I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Increased expenses
On review of the information provided to me by Lloyds I can see the policy excess of £250 
was waived to reflect the increase in expenses Mr B suffered as a result of not being able to 
use his kitchen fully. 
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and so I dont intend 
to comment any further on this part of the complaint. 
Checking electrics and gas were safe
Mr B has said Lloyds didnt send anyone to check the safety of his electrics or gas following 
the fire. I can understand why Mr B might have been concerned about the safety of these 
following the fire. I can see Lloyds contractor had no concerns regarding the gas safety of Mr 
Bs home following its initial visit. Lloyds also offered to go out and check the electrics at Mr 
Bs home but despite several attempts to arrange an appointment Mr B didnt agree to allow 
them access. 
And so I think Lloyds has acted reasonably here. Mr B reported his concern to Lloyds, 
Lloyds offered to arrange for its contractor to go out and check the electrics; and this is what 
I would have expected it to do. Lloyds cant be held responsible if Mr B hasnt allowed 
access to his home. 
Replacing entire kitchen 
I can see why Mr B wasnt happy when he was told Lloyds wouldnt be replacing the whole 
kitchen. Some of the units in Mr Bs kitchen were damaged by the fire and he was concerned the replacement cupboards wouldnt match the existing kitchen. So I can empathise with the 
position he found himself in. 
Lloyds has said it hasnt yet determined whether the kitchen cabinets can be repaired or 
replaced. But Mr B made it clear from the outset of the claim that he wanted the kitchen units 
to match and so considered the only option to be to replace the entire kitchen. I have 
reviewed the documents provided by Lloyds and I cant see that it was explained to Mr B that 
there were several other options available to try and match the kitchen cabinets in the first 
instance. And I think this should have been explained and offered to him. 
Matching sets
Mr B believes Lloyds should meet the cost of replacing the entire kitchen. Ive looked at the 
policy terms relating to matching sets. In the section of the policy What is not insured it 
states, replacement of sets.  The policy says, we wont pay for any undamaged item that 
forms part of a matching set. 
Lloyds have said it wont replace the undamaged cabinets even if the damaged units cant 
be replaced or repaired. It has cited the matching sets clause in the policy and confirmed Mr 
B didnt choose to pay a premium for matching sets cover. 
But I dont think Lloyds has considered this part of the claim fairly. If the damaged units cant 
be repaired or restored its likely there will be a loss of match. This means I think it would be 
reasonable for Lloyds to pay fair compensation for the loss of match. 
However I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Lloyds to pay the full cost of replacing 
the kitchen given it hasnt all been damaged by the fire. It isnt strictly covered by the policy 
terms. So Ive thought about what would be a fair and reasonable compromise for both 
parties. I think the fair outcome for this complaint would be for Lloyds to pay 50% of the cost 
of replacing the undamaged units in the kitchen, in the event the damaged ones cant be 
restored or repaired. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above Lloyds need to do the following; 
Contribute 50% of the cost towards the replacement of the undamaged kitchen units.
To be clear in settling Mr Bs claim Lloyds will need to repair, restore, or replace the 
damaged parts of the kitchen as per the terms of the policy, if indeed they can be. And 
Lloyds will carry 100% of the cost of that.
Lloyds will also need to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts of the kitchen 
units. Thats in line with our usual approach where repairs or replacements cant be made to 
match the undamaged parts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to do what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Kiran ClairOmbudsman