DRN-3105197
The complaint
Mr A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited have paid out on a claim that 
he believes was made fraudulently by the third party. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr A saw a disturbance in the road ahead of him and so began to reverse 
back down the road to allow oncoming vehicles through. While reversing Mr A hit a 
stationary moped which was parked next to another car.  
Mr A maintains that the impact was very light and as a result the moped leaned onto the 
other vehicle and did not hit the ground. Both Mr As car and the other vehicle were not 
damaged as a result of the impact. 
Mr A noticed that the moped already appeared to be damaged prior to the accident and so 
took some pictures of the scene and reported the matter to his insurer. 
Advantage investigated the claim. It received a report from the third-party insurer that stated 
that the moped was not economical to repair. Advantage instructed their own independent 
garage to assess the damage to the moped. The report from the independent garage 
confirmed that the moped was not economical to repair and provided an assessment of the 
value of the claim. 
Mr A was not happy that Advantage paid out on the claim. He said that the damage to the 
moped was not caused by his vehicle since the impact was so minor, and the damage to the 
moped was extensive. 
Advantage said that based on the evidence that it had available it accepted that Mr A would 
be likely be held at fault for the accident. Advantage said that it understood Mr As position. 
But in the absence of any evidence to prove that the damage occurred before Mr A reversed 
into the moped it had to accept fault and pay out on the claim. 
Mr A was not happy with the response he received from Advantage and so referred the 
matter to this service. Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He felt that Advantage 
had acted reasonably when paying out on the claim. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I have explained my reasoning 
below. 
It is important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Advantage acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in its handling of the 
claim. 
The insurance policy provides cover for damage to third parties. Under the terms of the 
policy it says that if they feel its appropriate, you insurer will be entitled to admit liability, for 
the costs covered under this Policy on behalf of you or any person claiming indemnity under 
the Policy. Such admissions may be made before or after legal proceedings But in applying 
that term I expect the insurer to act fairly and reasonably. By that I mean that Advantage 
should complete a fair investigation into the matter when deciding on how the claim is 
settled. 
Mr A has said that the impact to the moped was very light and therefore could not have 
caused the damage that the third party is claiming. The third party provided information 
regarding the damage to the moped and its assessment was that the moped was a total 
loss. Advantage didnt accept the third-party report at face value and commissioned an 
independent report to help inform its decision. I have seen the evidence from the third party 
and the report from the independent engineer instructed by Advantage. That report 
confirmed that there was a moderate impact, it noted some old damage, and recommended 
a total loss settlement as the moped was beyond economic repair. 
The circumstances are such that there was nothing to prove that all, or even some of the 
damage to the moped had been caused prior to the accident. There was no dispute that Mr 
As vehicle hit the moped. So an insurer will look to settle a claim as economically as 
possible. I understand Mr As frustration since he feels that the moped driver is claiming for 
the damage fraudulently. But overall, I think Advantage have acted fairly in obtaining 
independent evidence and concluding that it would be difficult, and likely disproportionately 
costly, to defend the claim any further.
I note that Mr A has referred to the fact that Advantage should have obtained CCTV footage. 
I can see no contemporaneous evidence in the business file or original complaint made by 
Mr A to suggest that pertinent CCTV footage was available. So I am satisfied that the 
investigation into the claim by Advantage was reasonable and proportionate. 
I can see that Mr A feels very strongly that he did not cause the damage to the moped and I 
can empathise with his position. But I think Advantage acted fairly and reasonably when they 
settled the case on the evidence that they had. So Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above its my final decision that I dont uphold tis complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman