DRN-2178926
The complaint
Mr H complains Creation Financial Services Limited incorrectly recorded a late payment 
marker on his credit file. He says Creations actions have impacted his credit score, and also 
caused his credit card limit to be decreased.
What happened
Mr Hs credit card payment was due in August 2019. He made an online payment to his 
credit card approximately a week before the due date. However, this payment was not 
applied to his account, and as such Creation charged a late payment fee and applied a late 
payment marker to his credit file. It was later found out the payment had been placed in a 
suspense account by Creation. This was because there had been an incorrect reference 
number added to the payment. Shortly after this Mr Hs credit card limit was decreased. In 
responding to Mr Hs complaint Creation refunded his late payment fee but maintained its 
decision to decrease his credit card limit and register a late payment marker was fair. 
Our investigator issued an assessment in which he felt Creation should remove the late 
payment marker on Mr Hs credit file. This was because he felt Mr H had attempted to make 
the payment in time, and an administrative error had been the only reason why the payment 
was late being added to the account. 
In relation to the credit card limit decrease; our investigator highlighted that Creation was 
entitled to make a commercial decision so long as it was reasonable. Creation was unable to 
give the specific reason for the credit card limit decrease  but says the late payment marker 
on its own wouldnt have been the reason for the decrease. It maintained it was a 
commercial decision based on a review of Mr Hs account. Our investigator agreed this was 
fair, and therefore couldnt ask Creation to change its decision on this aspect. Creation 
agreed with this assessment.
Whilst Mr H has accepted the outcome regarding the late payment marker; he was unhappy 
with our investigators assessment concerning the decrease in credit card limit and also that 
no trouble and upset payment was awarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree Mr Hs credit file should be amended to reflect the payment being made on 
time. As such I wont make any findings on this, other than to say I agree this is fair and 
reasonable.
Turning to the issue of the decrease in Mr H credit card limit. As Ive explained above, this 
was decreased shortly after Mr Hs payment was deemed late. Creation says the decrease 
in credit card limit wouldnt have occurred purely because of Mr Hs late payment. It says it 
was a commercial decision based on his overall account.
Ive considered this response, and whilst I dont think it is substantively clear on why the 
decrease occurred, it does at least explain this alone would not have been the reason. 
Creation is entitled to make a commercial decision so long as it is reasonable and doesnt 
cause Mr H financial difficulties. In this instance, Ive not been presented with any 
information which would suggest its decision was unreasonable or Mr H suffered as a direct 
result of it. I have no reason to disbelieve its assertion that the decrease was not solely 
dependent on Mr Hs late payment. So, in the absence of any other information, Im 
satisfied Creation is entitled to exercise its commercial discretion here. 
Finally, Mr H says the actions of Creation should be recognised with a payment for 
compensation. Mr H says he was inconvenienced by this whole affair because he has had to 
raise a complaint. Whilst I dont doubt raising a complaint is frustrating and time consuming, 
this in itself isnt enough to warrant an award for distress and inconvenience. From what Ive 
seen Creation refunded the late payment fee once the payment was located. This is what I 
would expect to happen. I also note the reason the payment was sent to the suspense 
account because the relevant reference number wasnt applied; and Im satisfied this wasnt 
Creations error. Ultimately Creation has now agreed with our recommendation to remove 
the marker on Mr Hs credit file; and Im satisfied this is sufficient to resolve this complaint 
fairly.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Creation Financial Services Limited to:
- Remove any adverse information in relation to the late payment marker on Mr Hs 
credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman