DRN-2740965
The complaint
 Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (Marbles) shouldnt have registered a 
default against him.
What happened
Mr K had a credit card with Marbles. The limit was £5,000. He was in financial difficulty. On 7 
January 2020, Marbles agreed a payment plan of £41.95 per month for 12 months. On 11 
January 2020, Marbles sent Mr K a Notice of Default for arrears of £358.01. Mr K made the 
first payment under the payment plan on 2 February 2020. On 4 February 2020, Marbles 
sent him a termination notice  saying the full balance of £4,955 was due. On 6 February 
2020, Marbles wrote to Mr K to say his payment plan was agreed. In July 2020, a default 
was registered against Mr K for the balance of £4,650. Mr K repaid the account in full in 
August 2020.
Mr K complained that he was told when he called Marbles that he didnt need to worry about 
the default notice and to ignore it  as the payment arrangement was agreed. And it wasnt 
fair to register a default when the payment plan had been agreed. He was now finding it 
difficult to get a mortgage as a result.
Marbles said theyd acted in line with their terms and conditions. The letters sent to Mr K 
were clear  and said a default may be registered. Theyd listened to the calls and said their 
agent made it clear that a default may be registered. They later told us that the calls werent 
available for us to listen to.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she thought that Marbles had acted 
unfairly. Theyd agreed a payment plan for 12 months  but still gone ahead with the default 
for the full balance. There was no evidence in the letters sent to Mr K that a default may be 
registered - only that the payment plan might be noted on his credit file. She couldnt listen to 
the calls as they werent available. So, on the balance of evidence she said that Marbles 
should remove the default from Mr Ks credit file and also pay him compensation of £100 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Marbles disagreed and asked that Mr Ks complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K was struggling with his finances and contacted Marbles in December 2019 to discuss 
what to do. Marbles agreed a 12-month payment plan for him with zero interest  and 
payments of £41.95 per month - and this was confirmed in writing in their letter dated 7 
January 2020. But the letter also said it wouldnt come into effect until the first payment was 
made. I can see Mr K made his first payment of £41.95 on 2 February 2020  and the plan 
was confirmed by Marbles in their letter dated 6 February 2020. So  that shouldve been 
how matters then went forward.
The letter sent to Mr K on 7 January 2020 said You have told us that you are currently able 
to make reduced repayments of £41.95 per month and so we will set up a payment 
arrangement once we receive your first payment... We may also let credit reference 
agencies know you are on a payment arrangement which may make it harder for you to get 
credit in the future.
The letter sent to Mr K on 6 February 2020 said We can confirm that we have set up a 
payment arrangement for £41.95 per month with the interest rate reduced to 0%.... We will 
review your account within the next 12 months either at a time we have arranged when 
setting the plan, or at the end of 12 months We'll also let credit reference agencies know if 
you have missed payments which may make it harder for you to get credit in the future. We 
may also sell your account to a debt purchaser who would then own your outstanding debt 
and take over the responsibility for collecting it.
So  the letters confirmed the 12-month payment arrangement  and advised that it may be 
noted on Mr Ks credit file. And that action might be taken if he missed payments  which he 
didnt. There wasnt any reference to defaulting Mr K.
But  at the same time, Marbles also sent to Mr K a Notice of Default on 11 January 2020  
saying that he had to make payment of £358.01 by 1 February 2020. So  this was at odds 
with the payment plan theyd agreed. And they then also terminated his account on 4 
February 2020 and asked for the repayment of the balance of £4,955 immediately.
I can see that Mr K continued to make the monthly payments of £41.95 in March 2020 and 
April 2020. His payments then increased to £71.34 in May 2020, £57.98 in June 2020 and 
£50 in July 2020. So  Mr K was meeting the agreed payments. But Marbles still went ahead 
and registered a default in July 2020 for the full balance of £4,650. This seems to have been 
at odds with the payment plan that was agreed.
Mr K says that when he called Marbles after hed received the Notice of Default, he was told 
to ignore it  as the payment plan had been agreed. Marbles say they told him on the calls 
that a default may still be registered. The calls arent available for us to listen to. But 
regardless of that, it seems to me that it wasnt fair for Marbles to register a default  when 
theyd agreed a payment plan  and Mr K was meeting the terms of it. There seems to have 
been a confusion at Marbles which led to Mr K being defaulted at the same time as he was 
meeting the terms of the payment arrangement. Its not disputed that the payment 
arrangement could be noted on Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K has told us that hes had problems getting a mortgage because of the default. Its 
difficult to be certain thats the case  but Im sure it hasnt helped.
Putting things right
 Because Marbles shouldnt have registered a default when theyd agreed a payment plan 
with Mr K, its only fair that they remove the default from his credit file. And  as its possible 
(but not certain) the default has meant hes had problems getting a mortgage, I agree that he 
should receive a payment of £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
(continued)
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles must:
Remove the default from Mr Ks credit file.
Pay Mr K £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman