DRN-1133335
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mr H says was 
applied to a store card he took out in 1996. The credit facility was provided by a high street 
store, but there has been a change in the company which is now responsible for answering 
these types of complaint. The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.  
Background
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Mr H says he doesnt remember being told about it, or ever 
agreeing to buy it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr H disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the 
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So 
we now know consumers were asked to fill out an application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant 
was given to complete. 
I was sent the credit agreement Mr H filled out when he took out the card and PPI. I can see 
there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited him to either tick - or 
leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Mr Hs from was ticked, so I think this suggests that he did want PPI when he applied for the 
card. Because I also think he would have had access to the terms and conditions as Ive 
described above, I think he consented to the PPI cover when he ticked at this point. I think 
hed have been equally free to not have asked for the PPI. I also think Mr H would have 
been able to see any PPI charges being applied to his account on his regular statements. I 
think if hed never asked for PPI, he would have wanted to know what the charges were for.
I accept he may not remember what he did some 24 years ago, but Im afraid this all points 
to Mr H giving his consent.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mr H to decide for himself whether he wanted the cover. I acknowledge AXA could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall, I 
do think Mr H had access to enough information to allow him to make an informed decision. 
Mr H probably didnt have much sickness protection with his job, so I think the policy was of 
some use. Ive also checked that Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered 
was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered more protection than most credit 
cards. For example, if hed become unable to work or lost his job, the PPI wouldve paid off 
15% of the outstanding store card balance each month until he returned to work or until all 
the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been in addition to any other 
means Mr H had in place at the time.
So although I cant say why Mr H decided to select this cover when he applied for the card, I 
think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to him. I think this could 
explain why he chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mr Hs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that he wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Mr H specifically selected the 
PPI and had access nearby to the information he needed about the PPI policy and its rules. 
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman