DRN-2269137
The complaint
In summary Mrs H has complained that Zenith Insurance plc, cancelled her car insurance 
policy following the settling of her claim. She wasnt provided with a courtesy car and it 
wasnt explained to her how she could obtain an independent engineers report.
What happened
Mrs H was involved in a car accident. Zenith the insurer under her policy, decided the car 
was beyond economic repair. As it was agreed she would retain the vehicle, it told Mrs F that 
she would need to have an independent engineers report once the car had been repaired, if 
fully comprehensive cover was to be reinstated. This was to show that that the vehicle had 
been repaired to a satisfactory standard and there was no outstanding damage to the car. 
She was also told that she would need a new MOT certificate.
Mrs H asked Zenith for information about how she could get an independent engineers 
report. It wrote to her explaining what was required. She then obtained two reports, but 
Zenith wouldnt accept them. 
Zenith said that an independent engineers report was received, but this was after the policy 
had been cancelled. It said the policy could not be reinstated once it had been cancelled. 
Mrs Hs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She initially explained why 
she didnt think Mrs H was eligible for a courtesy car. This was because as the car had been 
written off, she wasnt eligible for one. 
The investigator reviewed the complaint again. She had obtained call recordings and 
believed Mrs H was given misleading information during a call on 24 September 2020. This 
was because she had been told the report she had sent in was acceptable when it wasnt. 
And she thought Mrs H should be compensated for the cost of the second report. And she 
should be refunded the three months premiums she lost as a result of her policy being 
cancelled, together with £100 for the inconvenience she had been caused. 
Zenith didnt agree. It maintained that it had provided full details as to what was required for 
the policy to continue and that an independent engineers report would be required. The 
second report wasnt acceptable as it was in an invoice format. It accepted the phone call of 
24 September was misleading. And it accepted the suggestion of £100 for the inconvenience 
Mrs H had incurred. But it didnt agree to refund 3 months premiums that the investigator 
suggested. 
In response our investigator explained why she remained of the view that if Mrs H had been 
told on 24 September that another report was needed, she would have got one in time. And 
she thought the £150 fee should still be reimbursed. And if another report had been provided 
by 30 September 2019, her insurance would have continued. 
In response the business agreed to pay the refund of premiums. But it didnt think it was 
responsible for payment of the second report. It couldnt see that a second report had been 
received. 
Mrs H maintained that she should be reimbursed the cost of the second report. Our 
investigator explained that she thought Mrs H would always have had to pay the cost of a 
second report which was why she thought premiums should be reimbursed. 
Mrs H didnt agree so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mrs H is very frustrated with how her claim has been handled. And I 
acknowledge she thinks that she has incurred unnecessary costs as a result of incorrect 
information provided to her by Zenith. Ive decided to uphold her complaint in part. Ill explain 
why.
Zenith wrote to Mrs H after the claim was agreed and she opted to retain the car as salvage. 
This was because she had decided to have the car repaired herself. In its letter of 15 August 
2019, it explained that a MOT certificate was required to confirm the vehicle was roadworthy. 
It also explained that an engineers report would be needed to confirm that the repairs had 
been carried out to the required standard. It provided details of a website to help her obtain 
an independent report. It also said that she could contact the customer service department if 
she had any questions on the proof required. 
Zenith also wrote to Mrs H on 11 September 2019. And this explained that for her insurance 
cover to continue, proof was required that her car had been repaired to its pre accident 
condition. And it gave a description of what needed to be in an engineers report. 
Ive thought carefully about the information that was provided to Mrs H in these letters. Im 
satisfied that the contents of the letters it sent, gave her enough information to know what 
she needed to do about obtaining an independent engineers report. And they explained why 
a report was needed, what needed to be in it. And that she could contact Zenith if she had 
any questions. 
With the above in mind Ive looked at the reports Mrs H provided to Zenith. The report dated 
27 August 2019 was set out on an invoice from the business that provided it. It says that the 
work to Mrs Hs car was carried out to a good standard. It doesnt particularise what work 
was carried out or give any details of the role or qualifications of the person who wrote it. I 
think objectively it doesnt meet the requirements for an engineers report that were set out in 
the correspondence sent to Mrs H. And this was provided by the garage that carried out the 
repair. So, I can understand why Zenith ultimately didnt accept it. 
But after Mrs H sent the report she had obtained to Zenith, she followed this up with a phone 
call to its claims department. Ive listened to the call she had with the customer
representative. Mrs H asks the specific question as to whether the report should she had 
sent in would be accepted. And in response the representative assures Mrs H that it should 
be. And when Mrs H asks if the insurance wouldnt now be cancelled, I think she was given 
the impression that it wouldnt be. 
So, as a result of this conversation I think Mrs H was given the impression that what she had 
provided was acceptable and the insurance wouldnt be cancelled. I think its more likely 
than not, if she had been told during the call that the report, she had sent in wasnt 
acceptable, she would have taken steps to get another report before the insurance was 
cancelled. I think therefore that the incorrect information had a direct consequence on the 
insurance being cancelled. And I think that Zenith is right to have agreed to refund Mrs H the outstanding premiums she had paid. Im also satisfied that as a result of this, Mrs H suffered 
some distress and inconvenience.
Ive also thought about the report Mrs H provided. The information was provided on a 
receipt. All it says is that the work had been carried out to a satisfactory standard. Im not 
satisfied that this met the requirements of what Zenith needed. 
Mrs H is also concerned that she wasnt provided with a courtesy car. The terms of her 
policy provide for a courtesy car to be provided whilst her car was being repaired. 
Unfortunately, her car wasnt being repaired as it had been written off. So, in the 
circumstances I dont think Zenith needed to ensure she was provided with a courtesy car.
Putting things right
Zenith should if it hasnt already done so:
Pay Mrs H £100 for the inconvenience and distress caused as a result of giving her incorrect 
information which resulted in her policy being cancelled.
Refund her any premiums she lost from the date the policy was cancelled to the end of the 
policy term. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Zenith 
Insurance plc in part. And if Mrs H accepts my decision it needs to pay her the 
compensation, Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman