DRN-1693741
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
has offered for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside his 
credit card.
What happened
Barclays has upheld that the PPI Mr A took out with his credit card in 1997 was mis-sold. 
Barclays had very limited information about the account and the PPI costs, Mr A actually 
paid. So it has made Mr A an offer of compensation based on the average of what other 
consumers may have paid for a similar policy of a similar length of time. In total, it offered 
£4,231.12 after tax.
Mr A wasnt happy with the average offer. He hasnt been able to provide any information 
showing what he actually paid for the PPI but feels he had high balances on his credit card 
and provided information about his current level of balance on another credit card he now 
has. Mr A also said he had had four accounts with Barclays and so it should pay the average 
compensation amount for all four accounts making the compensation £16,924.48. 
Barclays didnt agree that any more compensation was due and Mr A brought his complaint 
to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what Barclays had offered was fair based on the evidence presented. 
Mr A still didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to uphold Mr As complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and paid 
£4,231.12 to Mr A in compensation. Barclays does not have full records of all the 
transactions on Mr As account. So it has based this compensation on the average of what 
similar consumers paid for the same type of policy that they held for a similar time.
Barclays has been able to provide some basic screen shot records and a copy of Mr As 
credit card application form. These show that Mr A opened his account and took out the PPI 
at the same time in February 1997. Barclays has more detailed records that start from 1 May 
2001 and at this time there is nothing to show that PPI was still active on the account.
When Barclays made the average offer to Mr A it made a mistake and worked out the 
average compensation based on the PPI being on the account from February 1997 to April 
2004. This should have been to April 2001 as it is known no PPI was paid after this date. So 
the offer made is based on the PPI being active for seven years rather than four years. 
Where there are limited records available for a customers account it is considered fair to 
offer an average amount of compensation based on what other customers paid for a similar produce during a similar period of time. That is what Barclays has done here, although it has 
worked out the compensation using a longer period of time than it should have. 
Mr A hasnt been able to provide any specific information about his account when the PPI 
was active, such as old statements, as some customers can. Without any specific evidence 
as to what was charged at all it isnt possible for Barclays to put any accurate data into a 
calculation to give a more accurate estimate of the charges. So I think the approach 
Barclays has taken in making the average offer is fair.
I have noted the evidence Mr A has provided about the balance on his credit cards in 2018 
and 2019. But this is over 20 years after he opened his credit card with Barclays and the 
PPI was active. When a credit card is first taken out the credit limit is always lower and can 
gradually increase with time and usage. Also it is likely Mr A was spending less some 20 
years ago. So I dont think this information is useful in assessing what the balance and PPI 
charges may have been on Mr As credit card with Barclays between 1997 and 2001.
Mr A has also said he had four credit card accounts. He did have more than one credit card 
with Barclays but only one of the credit card accounts shows it was taken out with PPI. This 
was the account opened in 1997. As cards are renewed every few years there are also 
several different card numbers associated with this one account. But he did not have PPI on 
any other of the credit cards that he had with Barclays at any time and is only entitled to 
compensation for the one PPI policy mis-sold in 1997 with this one account.
As I said earlier, Barclays average offer was made based on the PPI being charged for 
seven years. This was a mistake as it is known no PPI was being charged in May 2001 
onwards, so the policy must have been cancelled before this date. Therefore, it is very likely 
Mr A has received more compensation than he should have.
Without full, accurate data of what was charged for the PPI on Mr As credit card no-one can 
be certain how much Mr A paid. He may have paid more or paid less than the average 
customer. But I think the approach taken by Barclays to reach the amount of compensation 
due to Mr A is fair. And as he has been compensated for a longer period than the PPI was 
active, it is most likely he has been paid more compensation than was due.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I am not upholding Mr As complaint. I think what Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has paid to Mr A is fair and Im not telling it to pay any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman