DRN-2911285
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) did to put things right after it 
agreed it irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
When Aqua considered Mr Hs complaint it didnt think it acted unreasonably when initially 
providing Mr H with his credit card in September 2014 and when it increased his credit limit 
to £550 in December 2014 and £1,250.00 in May 2015. But it accepted that it shouldnt have 
increased Mr Hs credit limit on the four further occasions that it did from September 2015 
onwards. Aqua agreed to reduce Mr Hs outstanding balance by all of the extra interest, fees 
and charges it added as a result of these limit increases. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied as he didnt think that what Aqua had agreed to do went far 
enough and he referred his complaint to our service. Mr Hs complaint was then considered 
by one of our investigators. She thought that what Aqua had already done to put things right 
for Mr H was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case. Mr H disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Aqua has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Mr H hasnt specifically said that he disagrees with our investigators assessment on Aquas 
initial decision to provide him with a credit card and then increase his credit limit on the first 
two occasions. However, for the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether Aqua did 
fairly and reasonably agree to advance Mr H credit when it did so in September 2014, 
December 2014 and May 2015.
The initial decision to provide Mr A with a credit card with a limit of £250
Aqua needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Aqua needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H could 
afford to repay before it decided to provide Mr H with a credit card and then increase his 
credit limit. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a 
lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks 
to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it 
 in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mr H was given a credit facility where there was an expectation that hed repay what he 
borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. The relevant rules, 
regulations and guidance throughout the period Aqua was lending to Mr H dont set out what 
a reasonable period of time is. So I think its important to note that a reasonable period of 
time will always be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. 
That said, Mr Hs declared income at the time together with there not being anything too 
concerning on his credit file leads me to think that it was reasonable and proportionate for 
Aqua to conclude Mr H would be able to repay £250 within a reasonable period of time. So I 
dont think that Aqua did anything wrong when it decided to provide Mr H with a credit card 
that had an initial limit of £250.    
The first credit limit increase in December 2014
Aqua offered Mr H a credit limit increase to £550 in December 2014. In my view, this was a 
significant increase and Aqua needed to ensure Mr H could sustainably repay a balance of 
£550 within a reasonable period of time. Aquas correspondence appears to suggest that its 
decision to increase the credit limit on Mr Hs account was based on his account conduct 
and management. I have significant concerns with the principle of this approach. 
It is not clear to me why a borrower who is able to successfully manage a given credit limit 
can then automatically be deemed, without further checks, to be able to successfully 
manage a higher limit. It seems to me that this logic would likely lead to continually 
increasing limits, unless or until problems arise. 
Notwithstanding this, at the time of the first limit increase I can see that Mr H had made a 
couple of large payments to his account and the balance was kept under the limit in the 
months since the account had been opened. So I can to some extent see why this may have 
given Aqua the impression that Mr H was managing the account well. And although I dont 
think that this is, in itself, means that Mr H was in a position to sustainably repay the balance 
within a reasonable period I find that the decision to increase Mr Hs credit limit to £550 
wasnt unreasonable.     
The second credit limit increase in May 2015
The second credit limit increase increased Mr Hs credit limit by £700 from £550 to £1,250. I 
dont know what additional checks to what it had done previously, if any at all, Aqua carried 
out before deciding to offer the credit limit increase to £1,250. But, in any event, the 
information I do have leads me to think that it wasnt unreasonable for Aqua to have reached 
the conclusion Mr H might be able to sustainably repay the additional £700 within a 
reasonable period of time. 
I say this because Mr Hs credit file still didnt show anything too concerning and he 
continued making payments far in excess of the minimum due. Indeed, Mr H appears to 
have made a payment almost equal to his entire existing credit limit in the month proceeding 
this application. Ive seen what Mr H has said about his income not having been verified. But 
the payments he made and the other information Aqua had didnt contradict Mr Hs income 
declaration, or obviously demonstrate what hed said was implausible.
So overall and having considered everything, I can see why Aqua also might have had the 
impression Mr H could afford to repay an additional £700 and I dont think it was wholly 
unreasonable for Aqua to have offered and then provided this credit limit increase to Mr H. And this means that I dont think that Aquas decision to only uphold Mr Hs complaint from 
the credit limit increases which took place from September 2015 is unreasonable.
Why I think what Aqua has agreed to do to put things right for the remaining credit limit 
increases, which it shouldnt have provided, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
I now turn to what Aqua did to put things right for Mr H as a result of the credit limit increases 
it agrees it shouldnt have provided to him.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business, as far as reasonably practicable, to put the 
consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. So, in an ideal 
world, wed tell Aqua to put Mr H in the position hed now be in if he hadnt been given the 
credit limit increases he shouldnt have.
But, as our investigator explained, when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending 
this isnt straightforward. Mr H was given the credit limit increases in question and he used 
the funds. So, in these circumstances, we cant undo whats already been done. And its 
simply not possible to put Mr H back in the position he would be in if he hadnt been given 
these credit limit increases in the first place.
As this is the case, we have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. Where a business 
increases the credit limit on a facility in circumstances where it should have realised the 
additional credit was unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that additional credit. 
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the extra interest and charges it added 
as a result of any credit limit increases which shouldnt have been granted. Indeed, Mr H 
appears to know thats what we usually tell businesses as this is pretty much what he asked 
Aqua for when he made his initial complaint. 
In this case, Mr H has been left with an outstanding balance even though he has been 
refunded all of the extra interest, fees and charges applied as a result of these credit limit 
increases. So while Mr H has been left with a balance on his account and he might be 
unhappy with this, Aqua has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something 
different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair 
and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr H says Aqua should do something different here. He now wants the remaining balance 
on his credit card written off. He says Aqua never verified his income and he doesnt have 
the means to pay back the outstanding balance. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. But all the interest, fees and charges Aqua shouldnt 
have added have been removed from his account. So what Mr H is left with to repay are the 
funds which he had the use of and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left 
him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr H to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Hs unhappiness at 
having a balance to repay, even after his complaint was upheld, is, in itself, a compelling 
reason for me to depart from our usual approach here. That said, I am mindful of what Mr H has said about his income both at the time and at 
present. Aqua might not have verified Mr Hs income. But it did proceed on the basis of 
information Mr H provided and in circumstances where Mr H may well have been spending 
funds he knew he couldnt afford to repay. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Aqua to profit from its decision to provide unaffordable credit limit increases and Im satisfied 
that the refund of the extra interest, fees and charges addresses this. But bearing in mind 
the remainder of Mr Hs additional balance is made up of his spending and he also provided 
some of the inaccurate information relied on, I dont think that its fair for me to hold Aqua 
entirely responsible for this.
Equally, the third-party debt purchaser which now purchased Mr Hs debt is required to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event Mr H tells it he is now struggling to 
repay what he owes. This involves considering things such as setting up an affordable 
payment plan, taking into account what, if anything, Mr H is able to repay. And at this stage 
this matter is yet to be determined.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Aqua has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not requiring 
it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr H to decide whether he wishes to 
accept Aquas offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what NewDay Ltd has already agreed to do 
to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So Im 
not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman