DRN-2069222
 
complaint
Mrs W says Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took PPI with a charge card in 1997. The PPI was sold to Mrs W by another firm but 
Allianz has accepted responsibility for this complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. So, I will 
refer to the seller as Allianz to make things easier.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld but Allianz didnt agree. So, the 
complaint came to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 8 July 2020, a copy of which 
is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the 
reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about the miss-sale of the PPI. 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 7 August 2020. But at the time of writing I have not received any 
substantive further submission from either party. I have also not received any request for a 
time extension for a further submission to be made. I note that we sent the decision and a 
follow up copy of the decision to the recognised contact addresses. And I consider that 
sufficient time has been given for a response had Mrs W or Allianz wished to make one. So, 
I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Im minded currently not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
To get the cover Mrs W had to tick a box for it. Had she not wanted the cover she could have 
left this unticked. And Mrs W had to complete her personal details to get the cover. I note 
that this section of the application was completed with Mrs Ws personal details. And Mrs W 
signed the application form to show she agreed with its contents. So on balance I think that 
Mrs W chose to take the policy and did so knowing she had a choice about it, even if she 
cant remember that now, many years later.
Whilst Mrs W thought she was advised to take the cover, Allianz have told us the sale was 
made with no advice given to Mrs W. The application form includes the following, We 
strongly recommend you take cover by ticking the box. This is a general recommendation and that part of the postal application form is pre-printed. Theres no evidence from the 
time of the sale of a bespoke recommendation being made to Mrs W, based on her 
personal circumstances. So, it seems most likely that Allianz didnt recommend that Mrs W 
take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. Instead, Allianz had to provide 
information that was clear and not misleading so that Mrs W could decide about the policy 
for herself.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know 
about Mrs Ws circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped her from 
buying it.
I say this because Mrs W was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mrs W at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. Ill deal with Mrs Ws 
employment status later on.
And I think Mrs W could have found the policy useful. I say this because Mrs W told us she 
had no sick pay and only modest savings to rely on if anything went wrong. The policy could 
have paid 15% of the balance until the claim stopped or the balance was repaid, whichever 
occurred first. And the PPI would also have provided similar cover if Mrs W lost her job. So, 
having considered all of this, I think the policy could have been useful to her.
So I dont think that Mrs W lost out as a result of anything Allianz might have done wrong.
When Mrs W brought her complaint to us, she completed our questionnaire and told us she 
was self-employed at the time of the sale, although she thought the sale was several years 
earlier than it was. Mrs W has now told us she was employed three days a week for three 
hours a day. If that was the case Mrs W would have been ineligible for the cover.
The application Mrs W signed said this,
Protect your Account Card payments against accident, death, unemployment or sickness. 
(For details see condition 5 of the Terms and Conditions section and Additional Information). 
The premium rate is 64p per £100 of the outstanding balance. The insured person must be 
over 18 and under 65 and permanently employed for 16 hours + hours per week. If you are 
not eligible, you may nominate your spouse or partner.
It is possible that Mrs W was working less than 16 hours a week and missed this information 
on the form. But the part of the form that Mrs W had to complete to get the cover was just 
below this. So anyone who read this and was working less than 16 hours a week would, 
most likely, have avoided the PPI. So maybe Mrs W wasnt working less than 16 hours a 
week.
These events happened nearly thirty years ago, so I can understand that recall can lack 
clarity after so many years. But there is a lack of clarity about Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale.
So, having considered all the submissions that have been made to me in this case, I think 
that Ive seen insufficient evidence that Mrs W was working less than 16 hours a week at the 
point of sale. The evidence that has been submitted to date is, I think insufficient for me to 
uphold this complaint for Mrs W.
However, if Mrs W is able to provide some evidence that establishes more clearly what 
employment basis she worked on, for whom and what her hours were Id be happy to consider any new submissions before issuing my next decision. In any event, I will consider 
again all the submissions made in this case when both parties respond to this decision, or 
when the time for them to do so has elapsed.
I have considered all the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint and I make no award against Allianz Insurance plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman