DRN-1338078
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the information provided to him by Cabot Credit Management Group 
Limited trading as Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited when handling his debt.  
What happened
In 2009 Mr T took out a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with lender B. In 2014 the debt 
under the HPA was sold to another business (business I). In October 2016 Cabot brought 
the debt from business I. 
In January 2017 Mr T contacted Cabot saying hed not heard from lender B, and requested 
evidence of payments under the HPA. Cabot raised a request with lender B asking for copy 
statements and or transaction lists from 3 December 2009 to 27 October 2016.
In March lender B told Cabot The Customer did voluntary terminate the agreement however 
he hadnt paid half of the amount borrowed and was aware he had liability to pay. Cabot 
chased all outstanding reqs on account with vendor.
In May Cabot told Mr T what lender B had advised about the agreement being terminated, 
but Mr T still being liable for the outstanding payments. In June Mr T contacted Cabot 
requesting all account activity, loan agreement and statements for the HPA. Cabot spoke to 
Mr T and it was recorded still waiting on documents he has requested, and once we receive 
them, we will be in touch. Customer happy with this. Cabot continued to chase for the 
outstanding account information. 
In February 2018 Cabot sent Mr T statements received from lender B. These statements 
showed the payments made to lender B, with an outstanding balance of £3,539.34. The 
letter also explained You also made further payments up until August 2018 of £40.00 to 
[business I], who had previously owned the account. These statements do not confirm any 
write off or clearing of the balance therefore I can confirm this would remain outstanding. 
Should you wish to continue to dispute the account I would advise that you seek further 
independent advice. 
In June Mr T received a letter from Cabot threatening legal action as no payments had been 
received for the outstanding debt. Mr T contacted Cabot unhappy that itd sent the letter 
when he didnt think the matter had been resolved. Cabot sent Mr T a breakdown of the 
payments made to lender B, business I, and a copy of the HPA Agreement. In October, Mr T 
complained to Cabot saying that itd acted unfairly by sending a pre-action letter when he 
hadnt clearly been told what the outstanding balance was, and why Cabot was chasing him. 
Cabot explained how the debt had been transferred, and the steps it had taken to clarify to 
Mr T why there was still an amount outstanding. Mr T was unhappy with this response and 
referred his complaint to this service. 
The investigator found that although some time had passed between Mr T contacting Cabot 
in January 2017, and receiving the full breakdown for his account history under the HPA, Cabot had acted reasonably in the updates given to Mr T, as it was waiting for evidence from 
other third parties. Mr T didnt agree that Cabot had acted fairly, and asked for his complaint 
to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
T but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate Mr T has explained that he was going through a difficult time, and Cabot didnt 
do anything to support him when he asked for clarity on the debt amount, and why he was 
being chased. 
Following Mr Ts initial contact with Cabot in January 2017, Cabot logged an enquiry with 
lender B to find out more about the payments Mr T had made towards the debt under his 
HPA. In June 2017 Mr T spoke to a Cabot representative and both parties agreed at this 
time that Cabot would contact Mr T again once it had received the account payment history 
Mr T was looking for. 
This evidence wasnt sent to Mr T until February 2018. But Cabot didnt chase Mr T in the 
interim, so I cant say that he was treated unfairly or impacted by the delay. Cabot provided 
Mr T with the payment history of his transactions with lender B, and explained You also 
made further payments up until August 2018 of £40 to [business I]. At this time although Mr 
T hadnt been sent evidence of payments made to business I, Mr T was encouraged to 
contact Cabot, or seek independent advice if he still disputed the debt. He was told that 
Cabot would continue with collections activity if it didnt hear from Mr T in the next 21 days. 
Cabot sent Mr T notice of its intention to start legal proceedings in June 2018. As Cabot had 
told Mr T that it considered Mr T responsible for the outstanding debt, its reasonable that the 
next step it took was to let Mr T know what would be happening if the account wasnt settled. 
I appreciate Mr T says this is unacceptable as he still wasnt clear on what the outstanding 
amount was, and why Cabot was contacting him.
I think Mr T had reasonable opportunity to question Cabot in February 2018, or soon after. 
When Mr T did raise a dispute in June 2018, Cabot acted fairly in sending Mr T everything it 
had received on the account, including evidence of the payments made to lender B, 
business I, and a copy of the HPA Agreement. 
Mr T says that he was caused confusion in not knowing what the outstanding balance was. I 
can see that the statements for lender B showed a closing balance of £3,539.34. When 
writing to Mr T in February 2018, Cabot explained that Mr T had made additional payments 
to business I. The letter also confirmed the outstanding balance was £2,859.34. Ive seen 
that this is the amount Cabot has consistently referred to when writing to Mr T to settle the 
balance owed. So although I can see why Mr T may have felt confused by the different 
statements, I think the letter in February clarified what had happened, and why the amount 
had reduced. Mr T has also commented on the evidence provided for his payments to business I as 
definite malpractice for this statement to be produced at the last minute and for it to be a 
genuine statement. As the current complaint concerns Cabot, I cant comment on the 
actions of business I. But I think theres enough evidence for me to say that it was fair for 
Cabot to rely on the evidence provided by business I, and to forward this to Mr T, relying on 
it as being a true reflection of Mr Ts payment history with business I. 
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that Cabot has acted fairly in its handling of Mr Ts 
debt, and actions taken to settle this amount with Mr T. Cabot made attempts to contact Mr T 
to try and resolve things and prevent the debt moving to its legal team. So I wont be asking 
Cabot to pay any compensation, or do anything in settlement of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman