DRN-3864730
The complaint
Mr M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined a claim 
made under his gadget insurance policy and terminated his cover.
What happened
Mr M took out gadget insurance online with Great Lakes. When his laptop got damaged he 
made a claim under his policy. 
Great Lakes said hed answered the question about the value of the laptop incorrectly. And it 
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to terminate 
the policy and refuse to pay his claim.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service and our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
The investigator said Mr M hadnt manually entered the value of the laptop when taking out 
the policy, but had selected the maximum value available from a drop-down list. So he didnt 
think it was fair for Great Lakes to terminate the policy as if there had been a careless 
misrepresentation.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So 
the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he gave the value of the laptop as £3000 when he took out the policy online. 
Ive considered the question that was asked of Mr M by looking at the screenshot Mr M has 
sent us, and this shows that when a laptop make and model is selected from the drop-down 
list, the value automatically generates in the area below, up to a maximum limit of £3000. 
And in Mr Ms case, when an unlisted laptop make and model is entered manually, the value 
can be selected from the drop-down list in the area below, up to a maximum of £3000.
I accept that Mr M purchased his laptop for over £3000, but I dont think it wouldve been 
clear to Mr M at the time he took out the policy that he wouldnt be covered for a laptop he 
purchased for more than £3000. I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr M to believe that 
the policy would only cover up to £3000 of loss instead. So I dont consider Mr M failed to 
take reasonable care and therefore I dont consider it fair for Great Lakes to allege that Mr M 
made a careless misrepresentation, when the question asked was not clear.
Great Lakes has said that Mr M entered the details of his device manually as it was not a 
device that was automatically included on the system drop-down list. Great Lakes says Mr M 
then selected the £3000 policy cover limit. But I dont consider Great Lakes has been able to 
demonstrate that Mr M made a careless misrepresentation by doing so. 
The maximum he couldve selected was £3000 and there was no option for him to select a 
higher figure. And Ive seen no evidence that it was made clear to Mr M when this question 
was asked, that hed need to select the exact value or original purchase price of the device. 
So I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr M to select the closest value available. Im 
satisfied therefore that no misrepresentation was made in this case and that Great Lakes 
hasnt treated Mr M fairly.
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE should reinstate Mr Ms policy as if no misrepresentation was 
made and it should consider Mr Ms claim in line with the policy terms and conditions up to 
the policy limit. It is entitled to deduct from any payment made to Mr M the policy excess and 
the premiums it refunded.
It should also pay Mr M £50 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused by unfairly 
terminating Mr Ms policy from inception and unfairly declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman