DRN-4473052
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has unfairly discriminated against him by closing 
his bank account and not met its requirements under the Equalities Act as it failed to 
consider his visual impairment.
 
What happened
Separate complaints have been raised for Mr C concerning correspondence not being sent 
to him in large print in response to his formal request under the law, and the delays 
experienced in receiving the information. And about subsequent communications from 
Barclays. The present complaint is solely concerned with the closure of Mr Cs account.
Barclays said it closed Mr Cs account due to his unacceptable behaviour, in particular 
threats to its property. Barclays sent a Notice To Close on 30 June 2022, but not in large 
print as required by Mr C. Mr C said he was unaware of the closure until he went into 
Barclays branch on 2 July 2022 to find out why he had no account access. Barclays then 
allowed a seven-day switch period and reinstated Mr Cs debit card. 
Mr C complained to Barclays about its decision to close his account. He said Barclays made 
no reasonable adjustment and acted in a manner which it should have known would be 
liable to cause excessive stress, financial loss and illness to a visually impaired person.
Barclays responded to say it had issued Mr C a Notice To Close after he made a threat 
during a phone call to Barclays in June 2022. It said this wasnt the first threat Mr C had 
made. Barclays said it suspended Mr Cs debit card and online banking immediately as part 
of the process and wrote on 1 July to tell him his account would close on 11 July 2022. 
Barclays apologised for not sending its letter in large print. Barclays said its staff assisted Mr 
C in branch and his account switched on 14 July 2022. Barclays offered Mr C £150 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She said Barclays was within its rights to close 
the account, but should have sent Mr C notice in large print. She said Mr C didnt have 
access to banking for four days, but told us that all his payments had gone out of his 
account. The investigator concluded that the £150 compensation Barclays had already paid 
Mr C was fair and meant that it didnt need to do anything further.
Mr C disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. Mr 
C acknowledged he shouldnt have said what he did but Barclays had broken its word and 
lied to him having repeatedly promised to call him back for weeks beforehand. Mr C said 
Barclays could close his account, but hadnt communicated with him for two months until he 
received the large print letter even though it knew of his visual impairment. Mr C 
acknowledged that Barclays staff mitigate the closure and switch, but this shouldnt have 
been required as Barclays should have automatically put an arrangement in place.
Mr C said he wished to raise another complaint concerning Barclays breach of its repeated 
word to call him back prior to his threatening phone call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate the distress and inconvenience Mr C was caused when Barclays closed his 
bank account. I have looked carefully to see whether Barclays followed the correct 
procedures in closing the account and how it handled communications with Mr C to see if it 
has treated him fairly.
Barclays is entitled to close a customers account just as a customer is entitled to close an 
account with a bank. Although Barclays can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer, 
it must follow the process it has set out within the accounts terms and conditions. 
Mr C was angry and frustrated with Barclays for not returning his calls during the call in 
which he made a threat and at the time had been on hold for about two hours. Barclays 
terms allow it to close the account immediately when, You behave in a threatening or 
abusive manner to our staff. And so I think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to close 
Mr Cs account. 
Ive looked at the process Barclays followed and the impact of this on Mr C. Although it could 
close Mr Cs account immediately, Barclays decided to give seven-days notice of closure as 
a cheque payment was pending. Barclays restricted account access on Thursday 30 June 
2022, and following Mr Cs complaint on 2 July, it allowed him to re-access his account. It 
was unfortunate that Mr C was without access to internet banking for a few days, but he has 
said this didnt affect payments as these had already been made. I agree with Mr C that 
Barclays staff mitigated the impact of the closure of his account and switch to another bank. 
Mr C said Barclays didnt communicate with him for in excess of eight weeks about his 
account closure. But his attendance at Barclays branch and workaround provided by its staff 
took place only two days after it sent him its Notice To Close in ordinary letter format. 
Barclays acknowledged its mistake in not sending the Notice To Close letter in large print. I 
think the impact of this was mitigated by it allowing a seven-day extension to facilitate a 
switch. During this period it reactivated Mr Cs debit card to allow him to make payments and 
to allow his access to online banking. Im pleased that Mr C was able to accomplish a switch 
of his account shortly afterwards. 
Notwithstanding this, Mr Cs request for compensation for the lack of large print letters has 
been addressed in Barclays final response of 4 July 2022. Mr C disagrees, and said all his 
complaints pre-date the closure of his account, specifically those about the lack of large print 
letters. He said his account was closed on July 14 and Barclays issued its final response on 
July 4. In fact Barclays sent its Notice To Close on 30 June 2022, before its response to Mr 
Cs complaint and this included the lack of a large print letter. Barclays offered Mr C £100 in 
recognition of the poor communication and service he had received in relation to a separate 
application and this matter, and after further communication it agreed to pay him £400 
compensation on 3 October 2022. And so I cant comment any further on this point.
Mr C said Barclays knew of his visual impairment from when he opened his account and so 
it should not have closed his account as it did, and it discriminated against him. Barclays 
doesnt feel it discriminated against him due to his disability and said that it went above and 
beyond to help and allow him to complete the account switch. Normally once a Notice To 
Close is issued theres no access to an account until an account is opened with another 
provider. So, I think Barclays actions were fair in the circumstances. Im satisfied that Barclays didnt treat Mr C unfairly or unreasonably and so I wont be asking it to take any 
further action. 
I think Barclays acted within its rights to close Mr Cs account. Even though he is partially 
sighted, this doesnt preclude its actions when faced with unacceptable behaviour. All-in-all I 
consider that Barclays treated Mr C fairly and reasonably in the decisions that it took and the 
compensation it has paid him when its service fell short of what it should have been. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman