DRN-2945002
The complaint
Mr B complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited provided his financial advisor with 
incorrect information about the valuation of his pension savings on two separate occasions. 
And he complains that given the significant fall in the value of his pension savings it was 
unreasonable for Standard Life to proceed with his crystallisation instruction without further 
confirmation being received.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that decision, and I have had further discussions with them on the way forward that 
I will detail later in this decision. But for completeness I provide an extract from my original 
provisional decision below. I said;
Mr B held pension savings with Standard Life. The majority of that money was 
invested though a third-party investment manager. In March 2020 Mr B requested, 
via his financial advisor, that Standard Life crystallise his pension savings and pay 
him the maximum amount of pension commencement lump sum (PCLS)  also 
generally known as tax free cash  permitted by the legislation.
On the call where the financial advisor made the initial request, Standard Life 
provided him with an indication of the value of Mr Bs pension savings. But it noted 
that value was not guaranteed and could change over time. The valuation that 
Standard Life provided was based on information provided by the investment 
manager around two weeks earlier. Standard Life says that it received an updated 
valuation later that day, showing a reduction in the value of Mr Bs pension 
investments.
Mr Bs financial advisor called Standard Life around a week later. He asked for an 
update on the progress of Mr Bs request, and when the PCLS was likely to be paid. 
And he provided bank account details so Mr B could receive the payment. 
Standard Life explained that it was still completing Mr Bs request  it said that at that 
time similar requests were taking between seven and ten business days. And it 
provided an updated valuation for Mr Bs pension savings reflecting the update it had 
received from the investment manager. But again Standard Life noted that the 
ultimate value of the crystallisation event might change.
Standard Life completed the processing of Mr Bs instruction around four days later. 
But the initial confirmation it sent was based on an incorrect fund value  it was 
based on the information it had given Mr Bs financial advisor on the second call. But 
later that day Standard Life provided corrected information and paid the PCLS to 
Mr B.
When it looked at Mr Bs complaint Standard Life reassured him that the PCLS 
payment it had made was correct. But it accepted it had provided incorrect 
information when it first confirmed the value of the PCLS payment. It understood that 
this information might have caused a degree of trouble and upset to Mr B. So it paid 
him £200 in compensation. But since the PCLS payment it actually made was 
correctly valued Standard Life didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
It seems to me that there are a number of facts surrounding this complaint that are 
agreed by both parties. Standard Life did provide a valuation that was out of date to 
Mr Bs financial advisor on the first call, although I appreciate it didnt know that at the 
time. And when it processed the instruction just under two weeks later it initially sent 
some wrong information about the value of the PCLS it would be paying. I can 
appreciate how disappointing these changes in valuation would have been for Mr B, 
when the information was relayed to him by his financial advisor. But I can see that 
Standard Life has paid Mr B £200 in respect of that trouble and upset. I think that 
payment is a fair and reasonable reflection of what I think is appropriate in those 
circumstances. 
I dont think that the time Standard Life took to implement Mr Bs instructions was out 
of line with what Id normally expect, particularly given the turmoil that a number of 
businesses were facing at that time due to the start of restrictions due to the 
Coronavirus pandemic. Before completing the crystallisation actions Standard Life 
needed to instruct the third-party investment manager to liquidate some assets and 
transfer some funds over. And it then needed to ensure that what was a relatively 
large amount of pension savings were treated correctly in line with the legislation at 
that time. Standard Life has said that the transaction was processed in line with its 
normal expectations and that seems a reasonable conclusion. So I dont think that 
Standard Life did anything wrong in this regard.
Due to the onset of the Coronavirus pandemic there was a large degree of volatility in 
the financial markets at that time. That volatility, and that the markets were generally 
falling, was acknowledged by Mr Bs financial advisor when Standard Life explained 
in the initial call that its valuations were not a guarantee of what PCLS Mr B would 
ultimately receive. But, I think quite importantly, Mr Bs financial advisor didnt ask 
Standard Life to provide him, or Mr B, with an opportunity to reconsider the 
transaction once the final values had been determined.
From the information that Standard Life has sent to us I am confident that the PCLS it 
calculated was a fair reflection of the pension savings that Mr B held at the time the 
transaction was processed. I understand how disappointing the fall in the PCLS 
would have been for Mr B, but given what I have said above I dont think the payment 
that Standard Life made was incorrect.
Mr Bs complaint relates to the actions of Standard Life. Im obviously not privy to any 
conversations that took place between Mr B and his financial advisor. So it might be 
possible that Mr B wasnt given all the information that Standard Life provided, such 
as the potential changes to the value of his PCLS. But I cant conclude that was the 
fault of Standard Life  it had a reasonable expectation that Mr B would be guided 
through this process by his advisor.
Mr B has asked that I should consider whether Standard Life should have made 
further contact with him, or his advisor, before completing the transaction. He says 
that given the fall in value, if Standard Life had got in touch, hed have asked it to 
delay paying the PCLS. I have carefully thought about both aspects of what Mr B has 
said here.I dont think Standard Life was under any responsibility to review the instruction with 
Mr B given the market movements. Mr Bs advisor asked that the transaction be 
made to provide the maximum tax-free cash. That in itself suggests he was aware 
that the ultimate value of the PCLS was not fixed at that time. And that was further 
reinforced by the warning Standard Life provided, and the updated valuation he was 
given on the second call. I think it should have been clear to Mr B and his advisor 
that the markets were falling at that time, and so the value of his PCLS might be 
reduced.
But the regulators rules, in COBS 15.2, set out that a consumer has 30 days to 
cancel a transaction of this nature (a contract to vary an existing personal pension 
scheme or stakeholder pension scheme by exercising, for the first time, an option to 
make income withdrawals). Mr Bs advisor was reminded of that right in the initial 
phone call. But the regulations require that information to be provided to Mr B, in a 
durable medium.
Whilst considering the complaint I asked Standard Life to provide me with a copy of 
the cancellation rights that were sent to Mr B. Standard Life was unable to locate that 
information and has concluded that those rights were most likely not sent to him. So 
it intends to issue new cancellation rights to Mr B that will provide him with a 
thirty-day period to decide whether or not to cancel the transaction. And I would 
intend to extend that period to cover any additional time that is taken to conclude any 
determination of the appropriate redress Im proposing below. That will allow Mr B to 
take a fully informed decision. 
Our investigator has briefly discussed this matter with Mr B. He has told us that he 
might find the option of cancelling the transaction to be attractive. But since he would 
need to return the PCLS that Standard Life paid him more than a year before, there 
would be some financial consequences of doing so. I thought that there was a 
reasonable prospect that resolving this situation would result in Mr B needing to 
make a further complaint to Standard Life. So I have agreed with Standard Life that, 
to put things right more quickly for Mr B, I should deal with this matter here. That is 
the primary reason that I am issuing this provisional decision.
At this stage it isnt clear whether Mr B will decide to take advantage of the 
cancellation rights that Standard Life says it will provide to him. Standard Life has 
indicated that it expects to issue those cancellation rights to Mr B in the next week. 
And Mr B will have thirty days to decide how he wishes to proceed. Should he decide 
not to take up the cancellation rights my earlier conclusions, that the payment 
Standard Life made to him was fair, will stand. However I have set out my 
expectations should he take up the option to cancel the transaction below.
As I said earlier, my expectation would be that Mr B should find himself in the 
position he would have been had the cancellation rights been provided at the time. 
So, after Mr B had repaid the PCLS he received I would expect Standard Life to add 
those monies back into his pension savings, and increasing them to take account of 
any investment growth that has been achieved across his remaining pension savings 
over the past year.
But, Mr B has told us that he invested the PCLS after it was received. He will have 
incurred some costs in making those investments. And he thinks it likely that he will 
incur some capital gains taxation costs in disposing of those investments in order to 
return the PCLS to Standard Life.I dont think that Mr B should lose out as a result of those additional costs. But my 
expectation is that the investment returns he might receive from the PCLS monies 
will exceed those costs. I dont think that Mr B should benefit from any gains he 
makes in that regard. So I would expect him to provide Standard Life with clear 
details of the costs of investing the PCLS, any investment returns he has received 
over the period, or any withdrawals that have been made, and an estimate of any 
penalties or taxation liabilities that will arise on the disposal of the investments. 
I would expect any net losses to be covered by Standard Life, or any net gains to be 
returned to the firm. That return can either be in the form of an addition to the PCLS 
being repaid, or by Standard Life making a reduction in the amount it is adding back 
into Mr Bs pension savings.
So, in summary, I think the PCLS that was paid to Mr B was what he was entitled to 
and it was paid in a timely manner. I dont think that Standard Life did anything wrong 
in not seeking further confirmation from Mr B of his earlier instruction. And I think that 
the compensation Standard Life has paid to Mr B in respect of the incorrect 
information he was sent is reasonable. But Standard Life failed to provide Mr B with 
his regulatory right to cancel the transaction within thirty days. So as Ive explained 
above, there might be further actions that Standard Life needs to take in order to put 
things right.
In response to this provisional decision I invite Mr B to consider whether or not to 
exercise the cancellation rights now being provided by Standard Life. Should he 
exercise those rights I have set about above, in broad terms, how I would expect any 
compensation to be structured in order to place Mr B back into the position he would 
have been. If appropriate I ask both Mr B and Standard Life to comment on those 
proposals, or suggest what they might think to be a reasonable alternative.
I invited both parties to provide me with their responses to my provisional decision. 
Standard Life responded that it accepted my provisional decision, and it sent Mr B the new 
cancellation rights. Mr B also accepted my provisional decision and provided some analysis 
from his financial advisor of the compensation that Standard Life would need to pay to meet 
the redress I had proposed. In brief he said that compensation comprised investment losses, 
advice fees he paid for the investment of the PCLS, capital gains tax arising from the 
liquidation of that reinvestment, and tax charges since the value of his pension (after the 
corrections) would now exceed the lifetime allowance.
Mr Bs financial advisor suggested that a more pragmatic solution, rather than Mr B 
exercising the cancellation rights, would be for Standard Life to just make a goodwill 
payment equivalent to the investment losses Mr B had incurred. Mr B said that he agreed 
with his financial advisors suggestion. Standard Life has also indicated that it would accept 
that proposal to settle the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank Mr B and Standard Life for the positive and open way in which they 
have engaged with my provisional decision. Both parties have shown a willingness to 
resolve the complaint in a pragmatic manner  appreciating that the disruption that Mr B 
would face in exercising his cancellation rights, more than a year late, would be significant.  Both parties have accepted the substance of my provisional findings. So I have no need to 
alter those findings in this final decision. But that decision did leave the method of 
compensation unresolved in anticipation of comments from both parties, and so it is right 
that I set out clearly here what Standard Life needs to do.
In my provisional decision I explained that the intention of any redress should be to place 
Mr B back into the position he would have been if nothing had gone wrong. As I said above, 
that would involve significant disruption to Mr Bs finances, and significant cost to 
Standard Life. I think I should note that I dont entirely agree with what Mr B has said about 
the extent of those costs  Im not entirely persuaded that Standard Life should be liable for 
any tax charges for his pension savings exceeding the lifetime allowance. But given what 
I say below I dont need to consider that matter any further.
Mr Bs original complaint was that, if he had known about the fall in the value of his pension 
savings, he would have delayed his request for the PCLS payment to be made. So I think it 
is reasonable to conclude that Mr B would have exercised the cancellation rights at the time 
if they had been sent. And Mr B has told us that he would be prepared to exercise his 
cancellation rights now. But, in lieu of doing so, he would be willing to accept a goodwill 
payment from Standard Life equal to the investment losses his financial advisor has 
calculated. Mr Bs financial advisor calculated those losses to be £18,716.62 as at 
2 June 2021. And Standard Life has said that it is prepared to make that payment to Mr B in 
full and final settlement of this complaint (including its initial failure to send cancellation rights 
to him). I think that is a fair and reasonable way of settling this matter.
I have considered whether it would be reasonable, or necessary, to ask Mr B, or most likely 
his financial advisor, to recalculate the investment loss as at the date this complaint is 
settled. But I have concluded that isnt required. The payment that Standard Life is making is 
on the basis of a goodwill gesture  it isnt intended to put Mr B exactly into the position he 
would have been. So I dont think the value of that payment needs to be revised on the basis 
of any recent market fluctuations.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of this complaint (including Standard Lifes initial failure to send 
cancellation rights to Mr B) Standard Life should, as a gesture of goodwill, pay to Mr B the 
sum of £18,716.62.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Standard Life Assurance 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman