DRN-3311301
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) failed to refund £91,379.09 she paid to 
scammers posing as investment brokers.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all the details 
again here. In brief summary, Ms G contacted a merchant (TradeToro) after seeing a 
cryptocurrency investment opportunity advertised on the television. She was persuaded to 
invest £250 initially, after which point they told her to download software to her computer in 
order for them to manage the investment. 
The software Ms G had downloaded appeared to be showing profits being made on her 
investment, so she was subsequently persuaded into investing further sums from her Lloyds 
bank account. From April 2019, she made the following international payments to 
TradeToro:
Date Type of transaction / Location Amount
25 April 2019 Online Banking Transaction 
(Foreign Payment)£892.94
30 April 2019 Online Banking Transaction 
(Foreign Payment)£8,930.96
24 May
2019Online Banking Transaction 
(Foreign Payment)£8,152.62
31 May
2019Online Banking Transaction 
(Foreign Payment)£22,818.55
26 June
2019Online Banking Transaction 
(Foreign Payment)£40,404.04 (returned by beneficiary Bank 
as £39,546.57 on 2 July 2019: meaning a 
total loss of £857.47).
4 July 2019 Online Banking Transaction 
(Foreign Payment)£50,584.02
Total payments: £131,783.13
Total Loss: £91,379.09
Ms G eventually realised she had been scammed when she could no longer get through to 
anyone at TradeToro and was also unable to log on to her investment platform. It wasnt 
then until several months later that Ms G reported the matter to Lloyds, who declined to 
refund any of the payments she made. Unhappy with this, Ms G referred her complaint to 
this service and the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. I said I was minded to 
reach a slightly different outcome to the investigator and set out the following reasons for 
upholding the complaint:
It is not in dispute that Ms G has lost her money to scammers, and there was also a 
warning about TradeToro placed on the International Organisation of Securities 
Commission (IOSCO) website as of 5 April 2019. But its also necessary to consider 
whether the disputed payments were unusual or uncharacteristic enough for Ms Gs 
account such that they ought reasonably to have triggered an intervention by Lloyds.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Lloyds is aware of our general position on a Payment Service Providers 
safeguarding and due-diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial 
harm due to fraud. We have published many decisions on our website setting out 
these principles and quoting the relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to 
rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Ms G for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at 
the time. This is because they were made from her account using the legitimate 
security credentials provided by Lloyds.
These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Ms G was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Ms G is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto 
counter various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In Ms Gs case there was a warning published on IOSCOs website about the 
merchant at the time she made her first transfer to them on 25 April 2019. However, 
given that the payments she made were push payments (i.e. transfers made from 
her account) rather than pull payments (such as debit card transactions), Lloyds 
would not have known which merchant Ms G was paying. So I dont think there was 
any obligation on the bank to have automatically blocked the payments pending 
further enquiry as a result of the IOSCO warning. 
However, I am satisfied there were still enough triggers in this case to have alerted 
a responsible regulated bank such as Lloyds that Ms Gs account was being 
subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity. In light of the odd pattern of international payments she made, I think that by the fourth payment of £22,818.55 on 
31 May 2019 there were triggers, such that there were reasonable grounds to 
suspect fraud and therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning her in order to 
ask discreet questions about the nature and purpose of the payments).
However, I do not think the payments prior to this were particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic enough to warrant any intervention. I say this for a couple of 
reasons. First, Ms G had made several other large payments from her account within 
the past 12 months, ranging from £9,000 to £25,000. I appreciate these were made a 
trusted company of which Ms G is a director, but it had still established a pattern of 
large payments being made from her account. Second, Ms G had also made an 
international payment from her account a few months prior to making the first transfer 
to TradeToro. I accept this was only a small payment of £100. But nevertheless, it 
still established a history of foreign transactions being made from her account.
As a result, when Ms G eventually made the first payment of £892.94, Im not 
persuaded this would have flagged as being suspicious or unusual. I acknowledge it 
was to a new payee, but the amount paid wasnt out of character when compared to 
her usual spending patterns. This means that by the time she came to make the 
second payment of £8,930.96  although it was an international payment  it was no 
longer being made to a new payee. And while the amount was higher than the 
previous international payment she had made, it was not significantly unusual when 
compared to other payments she had made in the past. So the same would also go 
for the third payment she made of £8,152.62 on 24 May 2019. 
However, the point at which I think Lloyds ought reasonably to have intervened was 
when Ms G attempted to make the payment of £22,818.55 on 31 May 2019. I 
appreciate she had made foreign payments of lesser values to the same payee 
before, but this amount marked a significant departure from her previous pattern of 
spending when it came to foreign transactions, and it was also the second payment 
being made to the same payee within the space of a week. Therefore, it would have 
been reasonable at this point for Lloyds to have properly questioned Ms G before 
processing the payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
If Lloyds had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Ms G to 
ask suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that she wouldnt have 
explained what she was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to 
protect Ms G from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited her 
to check whether the payee was registered with the FCA. It could have also 
explained its own customer experiences with merchants like TradeToro in that 
customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances after 
investing their money. 
There is no evidence that Lloyds provided Ms G with any meaningful warnings or 
gave her other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments she was making. It 
was therefore a missed opportunity to intervene.
Causation 
If Lloyds had asked Ms G what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, I consider it likely she would have fully explained what she was doing and 
that everything had been done over the phone and online with TradeToro. Lloyds did 
not need to know for certain whether Ms G was dealing with a fraudulent merchant or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly risky) product such as cryptocurrency; 
reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider there were such 
grounds here and, therefore, that Lloyds ought reasonably to have provided a scam 
warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated traders.
If Lloyds had given a warning, I believe that Ms G would have paused and looked 
more closely into TradeToro before proceeding. There is no evidence that she was 
willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments. It seems more 
probable that she would have made further enquiries into the merchant and whether 
or not TradeToro was regulated in the UK or abroad. Ms G could have discovered 
they were not, in line with the various regulatory warnings placed on IOSCO about 
TradeToro. In other words, I am satisfied that a warning to Ms G from her trusted 
bank would probably have exposed TradeToros false pretences, causing her to stop 
investing and preventing further losses.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Ms G was 
to blame for what happened; that she did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or 
any harm.
I do not think Ms G could have foreseen the risk that the company she was dealing 
with was a scam and the trading account she was viewing was likely to be a 
simulation. In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce 
compensation on the basis that Ms G should share blame for what happened.
So, for the reasons given above, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and 
intend directing Lloyds Bank PLC to refund Ms Gs stolen payments totalling 
£74,260.04 (i.e. those from the £22,818.55 payment on 31 May 2019 onwards), as 
well as any transaction fees or charges applied to these payments. As these were 
payments made from Ms Gs current account, Lloyds should also add interest to the 
total sum (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% simple interest per year from the 
respective dates of loss to the date of refund.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Ms G responded accepting my 
provisional decision, but Lloyds did not respond with any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party put forward any further comments or evidence for consideration, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to refund 
Ms Gs stolen payments totalling £74,260.04 (i.e. those from the £22,818.55 payment on 
31 May 2019 onwards), as well as any transaction fees or charges applied to these 
payments. As these were payments made from Ms Gs current account, Lloyds should also add interest 
to the total sum (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% simple interest per year from the 
respective dates of loss to the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman