DRN-4257779
Complaint
Miss C complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) irresponsibly provided her with a 
payday loan. She says that she took out multiple loans on the same day while distressed and 
therefore she shouldnt have been lent to.
Background
This complaint centres around the provision of a payday loan for £400, which MFC provided 
to Miss C in November 2022. The loan was to be repaid in January 2023 in a single payment 
of £521.60.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss C's complaint and she didnt think that MFC had done 
anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the  
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this  
when considering Miss C's case.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss C's complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
MFC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
MFC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss C 
could afford to make the monthly repayments she was committing to before providing this 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of  
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect  
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
MFC provided Miss C with a single loan which was due to be repaid in single payment of 
£521.60. From what Ive seen, Miss C was asked to provide some information on her monthly 
income and expenditure. MFC verified some of the information Miss C by 
requesting a payslip and a credit search that it carried out. In its view everything obtained 
showed that Miss C would be able to make the required repayment in January 2023.
Miss C says the information MFC based its decision on didnt accurately reflect her actual 
financial position. Shes said that she took out multiple loans on the same day. Im sorry to 
hear that Miss C was distressed at the time that she took this loan. But I have to think about 
what MFC did at the time of the application and what it knew about Miss C's circumstances 
at this stage not what it has been told since. And, while I sympathise with Miss C's 
circumstances, I dont think that MFC could possibly have known about the other loans she 
took on the day she took out this one. 
I say this because MFC did carry out enquiries into Miss C's existing credit commitments  
including loans  by carrying out credit checks. And these credit checks showed that Miss C 
didnt have much in the way of existing debt. 
Furthermore, given the loans Miss C has referred to were provided on the same day as this 
one, MFC simply wasnt in a position to find out about them without Miss C volunteering this 
information. Miss C's credit file simply will not have updated quickly enough for the loans to 
show at this stage and even obtaining copies of bank statements, which I dont think MFC 
needed to do given what the information it gathered showed, wont have shown these loans 
either.   
There is an argument that, in light of the amount of the payment required to repay this loan 
and the proportion of Miss C's income (highlighted in the payslip provided), MFC needed to 
find out more about Miss C's regular living expenses. So Ive looked at the further 
information Miss C has now provided about her circumstances. And I dont think that there is 
anything in it which indicates that further checks into Miss C's regular living expenses would 
have shown the loan to be unaffordable. So while Im sorry to hear about the difficulty         
Miss C has since had repaying this loan, I think that MFCs decision to lend wasnt 
unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that MFC did anything wrong when deciding to lend to       
Miss C  carrying out further checks is unlikely to have shown that Miss C was unlikely to be 
able to afford the required payment in January 2023. 
I can also see that Miss C has asked MFC to write off the outstanding balance on her loan 
due to health issues which have seen a reduction in income. MFC has refused to write off 
the loan and has instead limited the amount Miss C has to pay to the original amount de in 
January 2023.  
Its important to note that once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulty, wed expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an 
understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate way to move 
forward. 
Having considered the content of the correspondence exchanged between Miss C and MFC, 
its clear that Miss C offered to provide copies of bank statements when she initially asked 
for the balance to be written off. However, for whatever reason, Miss C hasnt provided MFC 
with this information and has instead provided payslips. 
While the payslips Miss C provided do show a reduced income from the payslip provided at 
the time of the loan, the amount of the reduction doesnt in itself indicate that there is no 
reasonable prospect of  Miss C ever being able to repay what she currently owes. Therefore, 
I dont think that it was unfair or unreasonable for MFC to request the bank statements initially offered so that it can assess what, if anything, Miss C is able to pay. And Im satisfied 
that its freezing off the current balance is an appropriate interim measure, pending Miss C 
sending the further information requested.    
So at this stage I dont think that MFCs refusal to write off the outstanding balance on the 
loan is unfair at this stage. And I would encourage Miss C to get in contact with MFC and 
provide the requested information and also cooperate with it. MFC should also consider 
whether it is appropriate to continue pursuing any debt, or arrange a suitable repayment plan 
if and when Miss C provides the requested information.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that MFC treated Miss C unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing her with her loan or 
when learning of her difficulty repaying. So 
Im not upholding Miss C's complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss C. 
But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss C's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman