DRN-3683785
The complaint
Mrs As estate, represented by her children, complain that Mrs A was mis-sold an annuity by 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RL).
What happened
Mrs A was diagnosed with lung cancer in May 2019. 
In November 2019, she contacted RL about taking benefits from her pension. When she told 
RL about her cancer diagnosis she was informed that if she had less than a year to live she 
could take her pension as a tax-free cash lump sum. Mrs A told RL she would find out more 
about her life expectancy prognosis in February after her next appointment with her 
oncologist. She confirmed she had also spoken to Pension Wise. When RL asked about 
whether she had taken financial advice she said she was given information where to find an 
adviser but didnt feel she needed advice. 
Mrs As pension had a guaranteed annuity rate and she was sent a quote to show her what 
this would offer. RL didnt offer their own annuities any longer, so would get quotes from 
annuity providers on the open market and if their quotes were lower than Mrs As guarantee, 
RL would make up the difference.
Mrs As guaranteed annuity quote was on a single life basis and benefits would cease after 
she died. She was given a quote for around £7,800 in tax-free cash followed by an annuity of 
around £1,400 a year. Mrs A then had a telephone appointment with RL in December 2019 
where they went through a medical questionnaire with her. They recorded details about Mrs 
As cancer and treatment as well as other health issues.
Based on the information provided, RL could see on their systems that the best offer on the 
open market was an enhanced annuity due to Mrs As poor health which after tax-free cash 
would pay over £5,000 per year. The quote wasnt guaranteed at this stage, but RL agreed 
with Mrs A that he would ask the provider for a guaranteed quote.
In January Mrs A called RL to advise that she had a scan and was worried about the results, 
so didnt want to make any final decisions on her pensions. It was agreed they would speak 
again after her appointment with her oncologist in late February when she knew more.
In early February, Mrs A called RL to ask what the options were if she wanted benefits to be 
paid to her family from her pension after her death. She was worried that if she died in the 
next five years, her pension would have not been fully used. 
RL explained the available options to her. Mrs A was interested in the value protection option 
which would allow any pension not paid to her to be left to her beneficiaries as a lump sum. 
She was given a quote on this basis, however it was around £1,100 per year after tax-free 
cash. Given the significant difference, Mrs A said shed probably would go with her initial 
quote as if she lived for another five years she would get her pension value back. But she 
explained she wanted to wait for her doctors appointment in late February before she made 
her decision.
In early March, Mrs A informed RL she wanted to proceed with her quote on the original 
basis. She said she felt a bit more positive after her doctors appointment.
New application forms and guaranteed quotes were arranged. The tax-free cash was paid 
and an annuity of around £5,600 was eventually set up in May 2020.
I understand Mrs As health significantly deteriorated in November 2020 and in January 2021 
she was given only eight weeks to live. She sadly died in March 2021.
Mrs As daughter says when her health deteriorated her mother told her that there would be 
post-death benefits and that she should contact RL. When she found out after Mrs As death 
there would be no further payment from the pension, she and her brother complained.
They feel Mrs A shouldnt have been allowed to purchase an annuity given her cancer 
diagnosis and very reduced life expectancy. Mrs A only received very little of her pension 
and they consider its unfair and morally wrong that the annuity provider will keep such a 
large sum of their mothers pension. They also note that Mrs A took out her annuity during 
the Covid Pandemic and Mrs A was shielding at home and she was not able to see anyone 
for months. They think this needs to be considered as Mrs A couldnt have sought advice 
during this time as nobody was available.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that RL provided a non-advised 
service and they provided Mrs A with all the information for her to make an informed choice.
Mrs As estate disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the evidence available which includes call notes, annuity paperwork and call 
recordings between RL and Mrs A as well as medical information provided by Mrs As estate 
and their own submissions. 
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. 
I appreciate that Mrs As children feel strongly about this complaint and understandably so, 
as I can understand its been an emotional time for them. I appreciate that, in their view, RL 
took advantage of their severely ill mother when they sold her an annuity which they 
consider to be for the long-term. However, whilst I have full sympathy for their situation, I 
disagree that their mother has been treated unfairly and Ill explain my reasons below.
RL provided a non-advised service. This means they werent providing Mrs A with advice on 
which pension option would be suitable in her specific circumstances. What they had to do 
was to provide Mrs A with clear, fair and non-misleading information so she could reach an 
informed decision. It was also clear Mrs A was vulnerable, so RL would be expected to take 
this into account and treat her accordingly.
Mrs A was informed on multiple occasions that RL wasnt giving her advice and they 
explained several times where to find information about financial advisers if she wanted to 
obtain advice. Mrs A confirmed she had spoken to Pension Wise, which is a free and 
impartial service, and that she felt she didnt need financial advice. This was her choice. 
I appreciate Mrs A wouldnt have been able to see a financial adviser face to face during this time as the country was in lockdown and Mrs A was shielding. However, the financial 
industry continued to work and Mrs A would have been able to seek advice if she wanted to 
over the phone. I dont think its likely she would have considered this a problem given she 
spoke to RL and Pension Wise over the phone too and had detailed conversations. 
Mrs A had received information packs about her pension in the past from RL setting out 
pension options and its very likely Pension Wise would have explained these options to her 
again. Mrs A then decided she wanted an annuity. 
From the calls Ive listened to its clear Mrs A understood that her pension quote didnt 
include any benefits for her beneficiaries after her death. And the quotes she received set 
this out clearly as well. Mrs A had been given an enhanced annuity quote of around £5,000 
for a pension sum of around £23,000 (after the deduction of tax-free cash). A quote for a 
healthy person would likely have been less than £1,000 per year at the time. This is a 
significantly enhanced quote given her very poor health at the time and Im satisfied her 
health and reduced life expectancy was taken fully into account. The annuity provider-which 
for clarity is not RL-agreed to provide a more generous annuity based on Mrs As health 
questionnaire alone and without asking for further medical evidence. They were entitled to 
make that decision.
Mrs A understood that if she lived less than five years she wouldnt have made full use of her 
pension. She mentioned several times in the calls that if she knew shed live another five 
years, she would immediately have proceeded with the quote. But she was worried she 
might die sooner and this is why she queried death benefit options in early February. 
Adding such options, particularly when a significantly reduced life expectancy is assumed, 
can be expensive and when Mrs A was given a quote with value protection of under £1,200 
per year, she thought the annuity without death benefits was more attractive.
Nonetheless she didnt want to proceed until she had seen her doctor in late February for 
her check-up. Following this, she decided to proceed on the quote which didnt provide 
benefits after her death. It was noted she now felt more positive. I can only assume that at 
this point Mrs A likely thought and hoped there was a chance she would live longer than she 
eventually did. 
I appreciate Mrs As health unfortunately quickly deteriorated only a few months later and 
she sadly died less than a year after taking out the annuity. So with the benefit of hindsight, I 
understand her estate feels the wrong option was chosen. However, Mrs A received 
sufficient information about her pension to make an informed choice. I dont think RL acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. Mrs A wasnt rushed into any decision by RL. Phone calls 
were calm and everything was explained in simple and easy to understand language. 
Mrs A was invited to ask questions and she took her time to make a decision. Mrs A had 
been told previously that once the annuity was set up and the cooling off period had expired 
she couldnt change her mind if her circumstances changed. 
There was no indication she didnt know or understand what she was doing. She was clearly 
taking her own health into account when making her decision and was waiting for her 
doctors appointment to have an update on her health. And I think she understood the 
importance of her decision.
Annuities are insurance contracts and, like any other insurance, the provider is offering 
products based on their own risk assessment based on different factors. Mrs A was offered a 
significantly enhanced annuity as a shortened life expectancy was assumed based on Mrs 
As health. Its correct that as Mrs A died shortly after she took out the annuity, the annuity provider (which isnt RL) keeps the remainder of the pension. I understand this feels to Mrs 
As estate like they are unfairly benefitting from their mothers life savings. However, if Mrs A 
had lived four years longer, she would have received pension benefits worth more than what 
she paid for. This is how the annuity market works. 
And its not different to other insurance where some people pay premiums for many years 
without ever needing to claim and some customers claiming large sums after only having 
paid minimal premiums. 
I dont doubt Mrs As daughters testimony that when Mrs As health deteriorated she told her 
there would be death benefits available from the pension. However, as I explained above, 
based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that -at the time Mrs A made her decision to 
buy this annuity several months earlier- she understood that there was a risk she could die 
before she had received the full worth of her pension. And given the options of either 
securing the full pension if she died early in exchange for lower annuity payments during her 
lifetime or receiving much higher annuity payments, she decided on the latter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman