DRN-3741667
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Mazars Financial Planning Limited didnt advise them properly 
and failed to tell them about the financial impact of renewing leases on some of their 
leasehold properties. They claim that Mazars ought to have given them appropriate advice to 
renew earlier than they did, and this wouldve cost them a lot less money. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, but didnt think it should be 
upheld. In short, he considered that Mr and Mrs W were given suitable advice and Mazars 
provided the work for which Mr and Mrs W had paid it to provide. He noted that Mr and Mrs 
W never raised the question of renewing the leases on the properties, nor did they indicate 
any of them were nearing the point when the leases needed to be renewed. As a result, he 
didnt think Mazars had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree:
They said Mazars did frequently ask about other information and anticipated future 
expenditure, so it wasnt the case that it was solely reliant on what Mr and Mrs W 
told it. 
They said that Mazars clearly did consider the impact of these rental properties on 
their portfolio, because there was a note in the file from their adviser that said I am 
not aware of the purchase prices or dates for the relevant properties but we should 
think about the likely CGT liability on any / all of the properties.
Mr and Mrs W said that the scope of work agreed between them and Mazars said 
that it would include the collection and assessment of all relevant personal and 
financial data. They said that in their view, the lease extension fees of over 
£100,000 would come under that. They said that Mazars asked many questions 
about their properties, but missed this very important one. 
They never asked Mazars to manage these properties, and disagreed that this 
complaint was about that. They said that Mazars shouldve anticipated the impact 
that renewing leases on leasehold properties would have on their finances, and 
therefore advised them accordingly. 
They said that they never withheld or gave wrong information to Mazars. They 
provided all relevant information that was asked for. This is why they considered 
Mazars at fault. 
Mr and Mrs W said it was unfair that due to this failure to ask the right questions, 
they were now so significantly out of pocket. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling and why they consider their complaint 
should be upheld. I understand Mr and Mrs W primary concern is that if theyd been told to 
renew the leases on these properties sooner, they wouldve saved a considerable amount of 
money. I understand they are looking for Mazars to be held responsible for that and, 
accordingly, compensate them for the difference in renewing the leases between 2013 when 
they were advised, and 2021 when they renewed. 
However, having considered the matter carefully, Im not persuaded Mazars can be blamed 
for not anticipating when the leases might need to be renewed, or not enquiring further about 
them. Im satisfied that this is something that Mr and Mrs W needed to be aware of and alive 
to, and it was for them to either ask about the impact of renewing the leases in the future 
(and perhaps how to mitigate that from a cashflow perspective), or when asked about 
possible future expenditure, volunteer the possibility that some of the leases would need to 
be renewed in the future. 
Mr and Mrs W have raised a variety of questions in response to the investigators view, and 
theyve asked that I provide answers to those questions. I should make it clear thats not the 
purpose of this decision. My role is to look whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, 
and decide whether Mr and Mrs W were treated fairly by Mazars. 
That said, I think Mr and Mrs W have raised some thoughtful but ultimately not persuasive 
points. The fact that Mazars was able to provide Mr and Mrs W with advice on a great deal 
of matters which Mr and Mrs W didnt specifically ask about, or based on information which 
they did not volunteer, is in my view irrelevant to the specific complaint Mr and Mrs W have 
raised. Its clear to me that a financial adviser providing a one stop shop for financial advice 
ought to know about what wrappers for investments are most tax efficient, or when it is 
convenient or in a clients interest to set up a trust. And in my view this includes the impact of 
CGT arising from the disposal of properties  in the same way that an adviser would need to 
consider the income tax implications of rental income. 
Furthermore, Mazars would have no idea of the significance of extending the leases without 
Mr and Mrs W making it clear that they required advice which took this into account. Mazars 
didnt know how long each lease was for, nor was it specifically asked to advise on this 
aspect of Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances. For example at no point did Mr and Mrs 
W explain that they wanted Mazars to advise on how to mitigate the financial impact of 
extending the leases in the future  nor that they were even looking to do this in the 
foreseeable future. In my view, these were matters that Mr and Mrs W were responsible for 
raising with Mazars, ensuring it would be fully aware of what their needs were at the time  
and if possible in the near future. 
Mr and Mrs W have emphasised that they provided information based on the questions that 
Mazars asked, and it isnt their fault that Mazars didnt specifically enquire about the amount 
of time remaining on the leases or whether Mr and Mrs W wanted to renew them. In short, it 
was Mazars fault for not asking the right questions. But Im not persuaded. 
Whilst Mazars was providing a financial service to Mr and Mrs W, it was clearly still their 
responsibility to be alive to issues that mattered to them. I dont agree that its fair that 
Mazars needed to not only ask about how much was remaining on the leases, but also needed to then go on to consider, with no prompting, when these leases would need to be 
renewed and how much money that would involve. 
In my view, Mr and Mrs W needed to first and foremost be clear about what they wanted to 
do with their properties  and this needed to start with advice from a specialist in leasehold 
valuations and law. Armed with that information, and the possibility of future significant 
expenditure, Mr and Mrs W wouldve been in a position to ensure that Mazars had that detail 
and took that information into account when providing advice to them. 
Im not persuaded theres any basis either in the scope of work, or anything else, to suggest 
that Mazars ought to have pre-empted this in some way, without any prompting whatsoever 
from Mr and Mrs W. Im not persuaded that Mazars offering property seminars, is really that 
relevant here  I think regardless of Mazarss level of expertise on properties generally, 
thats not ultimately the service it was providing to Mr and Mrs W. This was not advice on 
how to manage a property portfolio  and so Im satisfied that if there was a specific aspect 
of their property portfolio that Mr and Mrs W were concerned about or wanted Mazars to take 
into account, it was for them to raise it. 
For these reasons, whilst I fully appreciate that Mr and Mrs W will find this disappointing, Im 
satisfied that Mazars has treated them fairly and reasonably, and provided the service to 
them which it agreed to provide at the outset. Im satisfied that the costs arising from 
renewing some of the leases on their properties were not caused by something Mazars did 
or didnt do, and therefore Im not persuaded it ought to pay any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman