DRN-3121770
The complaint
Mr S complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
provided to him. He mainly said that the lender didnt verify his employment.  
What happened
The main loan details are as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
Amount 
repayableLoan status
19/03/2021 £1,500 18 months £187.54 £3,375.72Outstanding 
When Mr S complained to Everyday Loans it agreed to uphold his complaint and offered 
to take steps to put things right in line with the way we would expect a lender to do in 
these circumstances.  
Mr S didnt feel this went far enough to resolve things and he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Everyday Loans had told us.
He explained that Everyday Loans had already done everything we wouldve asked it to 
do if we had upheld the complaint. So he recommended not upholding Mr S complaint. 
Mr S said he wasnt satisfied with this response and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. 
Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr S could afford to repay before it provided this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship.
In its final response letter, Everyday Loans agreed to uphold Mr S complaint as it 
accepted that it hadnt carried out some of necessary affordability checks it should have 
done. It explained that Mr S would still have to repay the capital amount of the loan  the 
£1,500 he had borrowed. 
But Everyday Loans said it would refund the interest  so he wouldnt pay any extra for the 
borrowing. 
As he had only made a small repayment, this left Mr S still owing the bulk of the £1,500 he 
had borrowed. Everyday Loans also offered to amend Mr S credit file by removing the 
loan. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Everyday Loans have said. 
I dont need to comment on the merits of Everyday Loans lending decision as this is no 
longer in issue  Everyday Loans had already agreed to uphold Mr S complaint before he 
brought his complaint to this Service. 
So Im concentrating on what its fair and reasonable to expect Everyday Loans to do to put 
things right in this situation.
It wouldnt be fair to expect Mr S to pay interest or charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to him. 
But I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
This is the way Everyday Loans said it would deal with Mr S complaint  so I think that is 
fair.
I also think it would be unfair for Mr S to be disadvantaged when seeking credit by any 
adverse information recorded about a loan that was unfairly provided. 
But as Everyday Loans has said it will remove any information recorded on his credit file 
regarding the loan, that isnt a risk here. 
So theres nothing more I would require the lender to do in this situation. 
Although Im not upholding Mr S complaint, I will just take this opportunity to remind 
Everyday Loans  of its obligation to exercise forbearance in light of his apparent difficulty 
repaying this loan, should it choose to collect payments from him. This means that Mr S 
can expect Everyday Loans to treat him positively and sympathetically in any discussions. 
And if Mr S would like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about his 
situation generally, theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
help on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman