DRN-2887638
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd (AFL).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then AFL, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was about 
nine years old and had already completed over 88,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have quite a bit of wear and tear.
AFL arent responsible for all the faults that happen with the car. Theyre only responsible for 
the quality of the car when its supplied. Some issues may be related to fair wear and tear.
Im persuaded thats the case here. The independent inspector identified a fault with one of 
the cylinders that he suggested was probably to do with an injector fault and he noted that 
the turbocharger was leaking exhaust gas. He commented on the oil seepage that had been 
identified and explained in his opinion that was due to hardening of the oil seals. He didnt 
think seepage of that nature was unusual in a car of this age and mileage and he didnt think 
it would be unusual to have injector issues or a turbocharger fault in a car that had 
completed that mileage either. He thought the corrosion that Mr S complained about on the 
sump was just surface corrosion.
Im persuaded by his expert opinion thats likely to be the case and I can also see that Mr S 
has been able to drive an appreciable mileage in the car. I think its likely the faults would 
have been identified earlier had they been present at the point of supply or at the point the 
engine was replaced.
Mr S says the inspector wasnt qualified to give an opinion and that the diagnostic kit he 
used was not fit for purpose. I note the inspector is a degree qualified engineer working for a 
company who specialise in providing independent engineering inspections of cars and who 
have a duty to the court. I dont think theres evidence the inspector wasnt qualified to 
provide an opinion. I can see he used the diagnostic equipment to identify a cylinder failure. 
Whilst Mr S suggests the equipment was not fit for purpose it appears to have been used to 
identify the fault Mr S complains of and Ive not seen persuasive evidence of other problems. 
Im not therefore of the opinion that its likely the diagnostic equipment used was inadequate.
So, on balance, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality and Im not asking AFL to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman