DRN-3322456
Complaint
Mr M has complained about the overdraft charges TSB Bank Plc (TSB) applied to his 
current account. Hes said the charges were unfair.
Background
Mr Ms complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that TSB had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr M if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ms account 
in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware 
Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances 
where TSB didnt treat Mr M fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where TSB continued charging 
Mr M even though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive looked through the account ledgers provided throughout the 
period concerned. And I cant see that TSB ought to have been aware that Mr M might have 
been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Mr M rarely used his overdraft and so paid relatively little in interest, fees and charges. And 
while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr M expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr M wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted TSB to potential financial difficulty, or prompted it to take 
corrective action in relation to the overdraft facility. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr M, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for TSB to have proceeded adding the charges that it did add. As 
this is the case, I dont think TSB charged Mr M in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that it was unfair to do so and Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate that 
this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman