DRN-4296357
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded incorrect information on his 
credit file. He said adverse data should have dropped off in 2015, and because it didnt do so 
until 2017, he couldnt get a mortgage in 2021. He told us about the losses this caused.
What happened
Mr J told us that in 2021 he was offered the chance to buy the home hed been renting for 
some time. He spoke to a mortgage broker at the time, and he said the broker was initially 
confident Mr J could get a mortgage. But he said then he and the broker found out that Mr J 
had adverse data on his credit file. Mr J said the broker told him this would prevent him 
getting borrowing from a high street lender, and other lenders were just uneconomical.
Mr J hasnt suggested any mortgage application was actually made at this time. And he said
he and his broker both assumed the credit file markers were correct at the time, so they
didnt ask NatWest to remove them. Instead, he said the broker advised him to wait until
2023, when this adverse data would no longer be visible on his file. But Mr J said he wasnt
able to wait. Although hed been given first refusal on the purchase of his home, his landlord
wanted to sell it very quickly, and would sell it to someone else if he wasnt able to buy.
Fortunately, Mr J had considerable savings, which he used to purchase the property.
Mr J says, if hed been able to get a mortgage, he could have used his savings to make an
investment, of a type hed made before. Mr J told us about the excellent returns hed expect
from this sort of investment, and said he wanted NatWest either to give him a mortgage now,
at the rate he could have obtained in 2021 (if it werent for the marks on his credit file then)
or to compensate him for these losses. But he said NatWest wouldnt do either.
NatWest said that Mr J first complained about this in June 2022. It has sent a number of
complaint response letters in this case.
NatWests first letter was dated 6 July 2022. NatWest said then that it accepted Mr Js
adverse credit file entry should only have been recorded on his credit file up to 1 July 2015.
So NatWest said it would amend Mr Js credit file, and pay £100 in compensation.
NatWests letter of 24 August 2022 said it wouldnt consider paying the amount Mr J wanted,
which was in excess of £80,000. It said when it had tried to amend Mr Js credit file in 2022,
it saw the marks Mr J referred to were no longer visible on his credit file. So NatWest said it
didnt have any evidence that this mark was actually still on Mr Js credit file in 2021. It said if
Mr J could show that this mark was showing, incorrectly, on his credit file in 2021, and thats
why his mortgage application was declined, then it would reconsider.
NatWests letter of 5 September 2022 said it wouldnt reconsider without evidence the
adverse mark was incorrectly showing on Mr Js credit file in 2021. Mr J hadnt sent that.
NatWests letter of 24 October 2022 said it still wouldnt pay what Mr J wanted. There was
no guarantee any mortgage application would have been accepted, and notes from Mr Js
broker suggested his application wasnt economical. But NatWest accepted it had made a
mistake and it paid a further £400.
NatWests letter of 23 November 2022 said it wouldnt consider the costs Mr J requested,
and it wouldnt offer him now the mortgage that he said he could have obtained in 2021.
NatWest said Mr J could have waited to take out a mortgage until the data was removed
from his credit file, but instead hed chosen to use savings.
When this case came to us, NatWest maintained this position.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said there was no guarantee any mortgage
application by Mr J would have been accepted, and his broker had advised him to wait.
Mr J didnt agree. He said his broker could confirm that he would have been able to secure a
mortgage at a competitively low rate of around 2% with a high street lender if not for
NatWests mistake. And if hed waited for the error to be removed, which he said can take up
to four months, then he would have missed the opportunity to purchase the property, as the
seller wanted a quick sale. So his choice was either to take out a mortgage at a much higher
rate with a sub-prime lender, or to buy using his savings.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said shed considered the brokers view that
Mr J was prevented from getting a decision in principle by the adverse credit information. But
there was still no guarantee he would otherwise have obtained a mortgage. And she said
that a reference by the broker in his notes to rates and set up costs not economic did not
sit well with the brokers subsequent stance. She repeated that Mr J didnt follow his brokers
advice to wait until the marks were removed.
Mr J wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this case came to me.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I should start by saying that, before I could have upheld this complaint, I would have 
needed to see a considerable amount of further evidence from Mr J, including that his 
credit file was otherwise clean in 2021 when he wanted to make a mortgage application, 
that he had a regular and reliable source of income then to support lending at that time, 
and full details of the investments he has made, as well as details of the further 
investment he said he would have made, had the funds been available. I would also 
have had to bear in mind that direct questions about someones credit history are 
sometimes asked as part of a mortgage application, and that could still have prevented 
Mr J from getting a mortgage.
Ive not asked Mr J for any further information, because I think theres another reason 
why this application would not have been successful. Ill explain why I think that.
Mr J says marks on his credit file shouldnt have been recorded, as late as 2017. 
NatWest accepts this, and says the marks should have ended on 1 July 2015. I agree 
with that.
Marks on a credit file are usually visible for six years after the date they refer to. So, 
without any mistakes by NatWest, adverse marks would have been visible on Mr Js 
credit file until at least July 2021 (perhaps a little longer, as its not unusual for credit 
reference agencies to operate a few weeks in arrears).Mr J told us he was offered the chance to buy his flat in April 2021. By 5 May 2021, Mr 
Js broker had held a meeting with him, to tell him there was no prospect of him 
obtaining a mortgage from a high street lender with these marks on his credit file, and 
that non-standard lenders would simply charge too much. But what Mr J and NatWest 
have said in this case, makes me think that the marks on Mr Js credit file should have 
been there, at this time. They should have dropped off his file later in 2021, some 
months after this discussion. 
Mr J could, if hed known NatWest had made a mistake, have asked NatWest in 2021 to 
amend the end date of these marks, so they would no longer be visible after July 2021. 
But Mr J also told us his landlord wanted a very quick sale. He couldnt wait at all, or 
hed lose this purchase. That makes me think Mr J was always likely to have needed to 
take concrete steps towards completing his purchase well before July 2021. I dont think 
he could have waited until a time when these marks ought no longer to have been 
visible on his credit file, to begin arranging the financing for this purchase.
For that reason, although NatWest did make a mistake here, I dont think thats the 
reason Mr J couldnt get a mortgage at the start of May 2021. So I dont think NatWest 
has to pay more than it has already done, to provide a fair and reasonable outcome.
I know Mr J will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. But Mr J didnt. He replied, with further evidence, 
and said he wanted to make some new points. 
Mr J said my decision now rested on the fact that this adverse credit mark from NatWest 
would still have been on his credit file in July 2021 even if NatWest hadnt made the mistake 
it has apologised for. But Mr J said hed checked with several sources, and theyd all 
confirmed that the adverse mark should have come off his file in July 2020, six years after 
the date he was made bankrupt.
Mr J listed the authorities which he said confirmed this. He said his bankruptcy order was 
made on 1st July 2014, so he thought this negative mark should have been removed on or 
around the 1 July 2020.
Mr J sent us evidence showing his income at the time, and details of his credit file. He said 
the only adverse mark on his credit file at the time was the NatWest error. And Mr J said his 
broker had already provided his professional opinion that, without this negative mark on his 
credit file, Mr J would have secured a mortgage in 2021. Mr J said the problem was that 
neither of them had realised at the time that this mark was actually an error by NatWest. 
Mr J said he now thought he had clouded the issues here by mentioning that he could have 
invested elsewhere, the funds hed had to use to buy his house. He said he now just wanted 
to be put in the position that he would otherwise have been in had it not been for NatWests 
error, so hed secured a competitive fixed rate mortgage.Mr J said he thought hed proved this mark shouldnt have been on his credit file when he 
was looking for a mortgage in early 2021. Hed shown evidence of income, and an otherwise 
clean credit report. And hed provided what he said was expert evidence, saying he would 
have been able to get a mortgage without that negative mark. So he thought it was fair and 
reasonable to assume that if it wasnt for NatWests error, he would have been able to obtain 
the mortgage. Because of that, he was asking NatWest to put him back in that position and 
provide him with a fixed rate mortgage at a rate that was available in early 2021.
I have considered the additional evidence that Mr J has supplied, including the authorities he 
cites in support of his view that the marks on his credit file should no longer have been 
visible by early 2021. But unfortunately Ive been unable to agree that this mortgage account 
ought not to have been visible at all on his credit file at this time.
Mr Js argument appears to be that his mortgage should have been defaulted at the same 
time as his other debts, on the date of his bankruptcy order. But if we are considering 
whether Mr J could have got a mortgage, then the key issue here is how long this mortgage 
account, which stopped receiving payments in 2014, would be visible on Mr Js credit file. 
And its my understanding that the account should have been recorded as closed, and 
partially settled, once Mr Js bankruptcy was discharged. So even if the default had fallen 
away six years after Mr Js initial bankruptcy order in 2014, the fact the account was closed 
and not repaid in full would still be visible on his credit file for six years from the closure date, 
which was a year later.
NatWest initially said it closed this account in late 2017, because it wasnt notified until then 
that there was no prospect of payment towards the account. And the credit file Mr J sent us 
notes that this account would then have been visible until December 2023. But NatWest later 
said the date of satisfaction on this account should have been backdated to July 2015, when 
Mr Js bankruptcy was discharged. For the reasons Ive now set out above, I think thats 
right. And that would mean this account would have been visible on Mr Js credit file until 
July 2021, as Id previously said. I think that was always likely to mean Mr J would have had 
very significant difficulties in securing a mortgage in early 2021. 
We know that Mr J chose to purchase this property with his savings, rather than go to a non-
standard lender to secure a mortgage in 2021. I think he would still have been likely to face 
the same choice then, even if NatWest hadnt made a mistake over his credit file, and the 
outcome would still have been the same. So I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask NatWest to pay more compensation in this case, in addition to the £500 it has already 
paid, or to ask it to provide Mr J with a mortgage now.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman