DRN-3780707
The complaint
Mrs Cs complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi) indirectly discriminated against her on the basis of her disability when they 
declined her application for a loan.
What happened
Mrs C wanted to buy a watch. There was an option to pay by instalments using credit 
provided by Hitachi. Mrs C applied. But her application was declined.
Mrs C complained to Hitachi. She said she and her partner are both disabled and unable to 
work. But they have a reasonable income and her credit score is higher than average.      
Mrs C felt that not taking these factors into consideration meant Hitachi had indirectly 
discriminated against her, based on her disability.
Hitachi investigated and wrote to Mrs C with their response. They said theyd spoken to their 
underwriters about the reason her application was declined. They said this was because  
Mrs C had selected houseperson as the occupation for both her and her partner when she 
completed the application. This suggested that they both had limited, or no, income and 
further details werent considered.
Hitachi said that Mrs C was welcome to re-apply for credit. And, if she did that, she should 
state her occupation as retired. Hitachi said this would prompt additional checks of her 
income and a more detailed consideration of her application. And Hitachi said theyd refer 
Mrs Cs experience to colleagues to see if there was any way to improve the application 
process for the future.
About two weeks later, Mrs C contacted Hitachi again to see if thered been any change to 
their processes. And she asked about compensation for what had happened. Hitachi sent 
Mrs C a cheque for £15 compensation.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Hitachis response and brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Hitachi didnt need to do anything more to resolve 
it. He explained that lenders are entitled to decide who they lend to. And he was satisfied 
Hitachi declined Mrs Cs application because shed described both her and her partner as 
houseperson  which suggests insufficient income to sustain loan repayments.
He was satisfied Hitachis decision wasnt based on Mrs Cs disability, or because shes in 
receipt of benefits. And he said that their offer to reconsider the application if Mrs C 
resubmitted it and described herself as retired was reasonable.
I didnt agree with our investigators conclusion.  So I made a provisional decision.  I 
explained that my role is to decide whether Hitachi dealt fairly with Mrs Cs loan application  
and, if they didnt, what they should do to put that right.  But I couldnt say whether Hitachis 
processes had breached the Equality Act 2010.  I confirmed that, if Mrs C wants a decision 
on that, shed need to go to court.
But I didnt think it was fair for Hitachi to conclude that someone selecting houseperson 
meant they necessarily had no income to make loan repayments.  I was satisfied that this 
option most closely describes Mrs Cs situation.  But she also declared a yearly income of 
£20,000.  
I provisionally decided it was reasonable for Mrs C to conclude that, having provided this 
information, it would be taken into account in Hitachis decision to lend.  And I noted that 
Hitachi had also not followed its own guidance in making the decision, which says receiving 
some benefits should mean someone is classed as employed for the purpose of the 
application  which isnt what they told Mrs C.  I said Hitachi should pay Mrs C £150 
compensation, in addition to the £15 theyd previously paid her.
Mrs C confirmed she had nothing to add to my provisional decision, although she was 
disappointed at the level of compensation.  And she said shed not cashed the £15 cheque 
Hitachi had sent.
Hitachi didnt comment any further, but said theyd arrange to send Mrs C a cheque for £165.
The complaints now been passed back to me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision and which Ive summarised above.
Putting things right
Hitachi sent Mrs C £15, which they said was to compensate for her time in completing the 
loan application.  Mrs C found that sum insulting and didnt pay in the cheque.  I said that it 
didnt compensate her for the distress shed been caused when Hitachi didnt follow their 
own procedures, or take into account the information theyd asked her for, in making their 
loan decision.  I thought Hitachi should pay Mrs C £150 compensation for those mistakes.
I can see Mrs C is disappointed by that amount.  Ive thought carefully, but Ive decided not 
to increase it.
Mrs C hasnt explained in detail why shes disappointed.  But she has acknowledged that 
shed have to pursue it in court if she wanted to take matters further.  I understand from this 
her disappointment is that the compensation doesnt recognise the breach of the Equality 
Act 2010 she feels has occurred.
I understand Mrs Cs frustration at this.  But, as I said in my provisional decision:
My role isnt to look at Hitachis business practices. Its to see whether they dealt fairly with 
Mrs Cs loan application. And  if they didnt  what they should do to put that right. So, while 
I understand why Mrs C pursued the issue of changing Hitachis application process with 
them, I cant say whether their processes breached the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Act 
into account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mrs C wants a decision that 
Hitachi has breached the Equality Act 2010, then shed need to go to Court.As I cant make a decision about whether or not the Equality Act has been breached, it 
follows that I cant direct Hitachi to pay Mrs C any compensation for that.  I can only decide 
they should pay compensation for not dealing fairly with the loan application.
And, as I said in my provisional decision, Hitachi did offer to re-assess Mrs Cs application by 
selecting her occupation as retired, to trigger a manual income check.  Mrs C declined that 
option  which she was entitled to do.  
But it would have resulted in Hitachi assessing Mrs Cs income when making their lending 
decision.  So I cant say Hitachi didnt do anything to try and correct what had happened  or 
that they refused entirely to consider Mrs C s income.  
For that reason I think £150 compensation is fair.  And I think Hitachi should also pay the 
£15 theyd previously sent Mrs C  making a total of £165 to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance and directing them to pay her total 
compensation of £165.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman