DRN-2395416
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) has 
unreasonably increased his premium for his life time pet policy.
What happened
Mr K complained previously in 2019 about the rise in the premium amount. And in that 
complaint RSA accepted it hadnt explained properly that when Mr K first bought this life time 
policy, premiums would increase significantly as his pet got older. It also paid Mr K 
compensation for this, which Mr K accepted. 
So, this complaint is about the extent of the increase at the next renewal of Mr Ks policy, 
namely the renewal in September 2020. Mr K said the premium increased from £913.63 per 
year to £1,370.34. He said this 50% increase is unjustified as he has made no claims in the 
previous policy year. And he said he also feels its some sort of retaliation for previous 
complaint and/or a further attempt to price him out of his life time cover for dog.
He said he very concerned he wont be able to afford to insure his dog more so since he 
went to the trouble of buying a life time policy. And he feels violated by paying into a policy 
for years and then feeling like he was being priced out of the protection he wanted for his 
dog.
RSA didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr K disagreed and brought his complaint to 
us. The investigator also didnt think RSA had done anything wrong, but Mr K felt given the 
extent of the increase being 50%, it was based on retaliation, so he asked for an 
ombudsmans decision and his complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
However, first, I do have some considerable sympathy with the predicament Mr K has found 
himself in. 
RSA has already dealt with the fact that it didnt tell Mr K at the beginning when he bought 
his policy how the premiums might and indeed increase as his dog got older. So, I cant 
revisit that issue as it has been dealt with and our rules dont permit me to revisit it again. 
Its not the role of this service to tell an insurer how much charge for the policy and cover 
provided. Its also not our role to tell an insurer what risks it should accept, or indeed how to 
rate those risks. This is because were not the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority is. 
Furthermore, the precise information as to how risks are rated and what that then means in 
the premium amount requested, is commercially sensitive information which I cant share 
with Mr K because our decisions are published.
However, given Mr K has complained before and I believe has complained again for the 
following renewal for this year, I asked RSA to again justify these increases. And it has and 
its shown me that it hasnt singled out Mr K individually or treated him differently to anyone 
else in the same circumstances. There is no question of retaliation or penalising Mr K in any 
way.
Therefore, in those circumstances its clear to me that RSA hasnt done anything wrong and 
that given this is a life time policy the premium rises substantially as the pet covered by the 
policy gets older. 
My final decision
I do understand that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, but for these reasons, its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman