DRN-3257627
The complaint
Ms J complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
appropriate affordability checks.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Js complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not 
uphold Ms Js complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional 
findings follow this in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms J took four loans between June 2017 and April 2019 Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 27/06/2017 23/03/2018 33 £15.00
2 £600.00 19/07/2018 29/03/2019 33 £30.00
3 £800.00 04/04/2019 30/04/2020 52 £28.00
4 £200.00 04/04/2019 25/04/2019 33 £10.00
The weekly repayment amount is the cost per week per loan. But as loans 3 and 4 ran
concurrently Ms Js commitment to Morses was actually £38 per week.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the
adjudicator thought that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have been lent. He said the pattern of
lending indicated Ms J had become persistently reliant on the loans and therefore shouldnt
have been provided.
Ms Js representative acknowledged receipt of the view but didnt provide any further
comments.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 3 and 4. In summary, it
said:
Loan 4 was withdrawn and so she paid no interest on it.
There was a gap between loans 1 and 2 as well as loans 2 and 3.
Loans 1 and 2 were only repaid slightly late and no late fees were charged.
Ms Js disposable income for loan 3 was £210 per week and the repayment was only 
13% of her uncommitted income.
Morses wasnt made aware of any financial difficulties Ms J was having until April
2020  which is after the loans were issued.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ms J doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong to
lend loans 1 - 2. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need
to make a finding about it. But for the avoidance of doubt I dont think Morses made an error 
when these loans were approved. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about 
the overall lending relationship between Morses and Ms J.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
3 and 4.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms J could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Ms Js income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms J. These factors include:
Ms J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms J.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms J could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms J was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, andthought about what this means for Ms Js complaint.
Loans 3 and 4
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan 3 Ms J had taken three loans in around 17
months (excluding the gap between loans 1 and 2) and loan 3 was now Ms Js largest loan
to date. Which is why the adjudicator thought this loan (and future loans) should be upheld.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Ms J had become reliant
on the loan. The loan amounts had gone up by loans 3. I accept there had been some
missed payments during loan 1, and for loan 2, Ms J appeared to have been paying the loan
monthly, rather than weekly, which then led to some missed payments.
There was also a small gap between loans 1 and 2, which I think further reinforces the fact
that Ms J wasnt always returning for a new loan either on the day the previous loan was
repaid or soon afterwards. So, I dont think these factors, on their own are sufficient to
conclude the loans were now unsustainable for Ms J.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Ms J had been
indebted to Morses for 17 of the last 20 months and she was returning for further credit,
extending her indebtedness for at least another 52 weeks.
Loan 4 was taken on the same day as loan 3, so shed need to service two loans for at least
33 weeks. I appreciate this loan was repaid early and so didnt incur any interest but Morses
wasnt to know that at the point the loan was granted. As far as it was aware, Ms J was now
committed to spending £38 per week, for at least 33 of the next 52 weeks.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms J declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms J had
disposable income of around £187 per week for loans 3 and 4.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Js actual financial position to
ensure loans 3 and 4 were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of outgoings, or looking at bank statements. This mightve helped verify
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information that Morses
mightve needed to consider about Ms Js general financial position.
Morse has provided credit search data from March 2019, so the month before these loans
were approved. At this time, it knew she already had 14 active credit accounts, which is not
an insignificant number. But it also was aware that of these accounts 5 of them had a zero
balance  indicating that they werent currently being used.
The report also didnt indicate that Ms J was having to borrow money to repay her loans 
after all, according to the credit report Morses had provided shed only opened 1 account in
the previous six months. 
But there was some information to potentially suggest that in the months leading up to this 
loan Ms J had some problems repaying another loan. So, I think this may have prompted it 
to make further enquiries into Ms Js circumstances.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks but by carrying out a
proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that Ms J couldnt afford these loans.Ms J hasnt provided this Service with a copy of her bank statements, her full credit report or 
any other similar information. So, I dont know what further checks may have highlighted
about her financial situation at the time. Without any further information from Ms J about
her living costs, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve seen if it had made
better checks.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that these loans were unaffordable for Ms J.
Looking at everything together, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loans 3 and 4. Even considering what Ms J declared to Morses
for her income and expenditure, these loans appeared affordable. Im therefore not minded
to think Morses was wrong to have provided these loans.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Ms Js complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Ms J and Morses were asked to provide this Service with any further evidence or 
comments no later than 14 January 2022. 
Morses hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Ms Js representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and said it would be 
back in contact with this Service as soon as possible. To date, no further response has been 
received and as the deadline for responses has now passed, I see no reason to delay the 
issuing of the final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As, neither Ms J nor Morses have provided any new information, comment or evidence for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional 
decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out proportionate checks before it advanced loans 3 and 4. 
But I dont have any evidence to show what Morses may have seen about Ms Js financial 
position had it carried out more in-depth checks. So, I cant say that Morses was wrong to 
provide these loans.
Therefore, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman