DRN-3682046
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs D opened a credit card account with Sainsburys in April 2003. Her credit limit was 
initially £500. Over the course of the next few years to September 2007 Sainsburys 
increased Mrs Ds credit limit seven times until it was £2,650. Intermittent increases over the 
period between January 2010 and December 2014 increased her limit to £6,400. 
Mrs D says that Sainsburys acted irresponsibly by providing her with the credit card and 
when it increased her limit. She says she was a student at the time she took out the credit 
card and was only working part-time. She says she felt coerced or talked into taking the 
card when she was shopping in store. She explains that for many years she only paid off the 
minimum amount and that she has struggled to manage her debt.. She says if Sainsburys 
had done adequate checks on her situation it would have seen that she wouldnt be able to 
repay her balance in a reasonable length of time.
 
Sainsburys says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mrs D and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mrs D  and when it increased her credit limit.
 
Our investigator thought that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld from the point at which her 
credit limit was increased to £4,250 in July 2013. They thought that given how long Mrs D 
had remained indebted and making no impact on her existing borrowing that it should have 
been clear that Mrs D would struggle to afford the additional borrowing.
 
Sainsburys disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of 
any financial strain.
As Sainsburys disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mrs Ds complaint.
Sainsburys needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ds income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. And Mrs D hasnt complained about the initial lending decision.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Sainsburys should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs D. These factors include 
things like understanding Mrs Ds income, the total amount Mrs D borrowed, and the length 
of time Mrs D had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
The account was opened over 19 years ago, so it is not surprising that Sainsburys doesnt 
have a record of the checks it completed at the time  or of the checks it conducted relatively 
early in its lending relationship with Ms D. Until 2018 Sainsburys credit card services were 
administered by a different bank, so there is limited information available about large parts of 
the account history.
When Mrs D requested an increase in her credit limit Sainsburys told us that it conducted a 
credit check. Sainsburys told us there were no signs of financial difficulties based on the 
checks it did but hasnt been able to provide a copy of those checks. It has been able to 
provide a copy of the application form, which confirms that Ms D was working part-time 
earning about £4,000 a year while a student. She was living at home with her parents. 
Given the information available to me I havent seen anything which suggests the lending 
was inappropriate or unaffordable for Mrs D. 
Over the following seven years Mrs Ds credit limit was increased in increments eight times, 
from £500 to £3,450. Again, there is no information from Sainsburys about what checks 
were done to make sure these were affordable for Mrs D. Mrs D has been able to provide 
some bank statements which show that Mrs D had a regular income and was using her 
agreed overdraft of up to £700 more frequently than not. Looking at the transactions it 
appears possible she took a loan in 2009 as well as a credit card with another company. But 
there is nothing I can rely on to suggest that Sainsburys acted irresponsibly in relation to 
these credit limit increases.
In July 2013 Sainsburys increased Mrs Ds credit limit from £3,450 to £4,250. Sainsburys 
says that its check revealed that her unsecured debt elsewhere had reduced significantly, 
indicating that it was reasonable to assume further lending would be suitable. 
Its not clear whether that unsecured debt elsewhere was a loan which had been repaid, or 
whether it was a credit card which continued to offer a revolving credit facility. 
Looking at the management of Mrs Ds account up to this point I can see that Mrs D 
exceeded her credit limit a few times in 2011 and 2012, and she was always using a very 
high proportion of her credit limit at other times. Mrs D was only making minimum payments 
on her credit card and for the six months leading up to the credit limit increase in July 2013 
she was using 99% of her credit limit. 
I think with that information available to Sainsburys about the way Mrs D was managing her 
account it should have made further enquires before it provided another credit limit increase. 
I dont have a copy of Mrs Ds credit file but Mrs Ds bank statements from the time show 
that she was only in credit on her current account for one a month (the day she got paid) 
most months. I think if Sainsburys had at least asked about her income and expenditure it 
would have realised that she was not able to sustainably repay any more credit. So, I think it 
was irresponsible for Sainsburys to increase her credit limit again at this point. Putting things right
As I dont think Sainsburys should have increased Mrs Ds credit limit from £3,4500, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Mrs D has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, Sainsburys should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £3,450.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs D along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Sainsburys should also remove all adverse information 
recorded from July 2013 regarding this account from Mrs Ds credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £3, 4500, Sainsburys 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs D for the remaining amount. 
Once Mrs D has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after July 2013 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
If Sainsburys has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above 
is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
I understand that Mrs D has a current repayment plan with Sainsburys. Sainsburys should 
contact Mrs D to understand whether she would prefer to continue with her current payment 
plan which should mean her debt is paid off more quickly, or whether she would prefer to 
adjust the amount of her payment so that it is paid off at the same time by making a lower 
payment each month.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to compensate Mrs D in 
the way I have described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman