DRN-4268167
The complaint
Mr S complained about how Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) dealt with a 
claim under a furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr S contacted Fortegra to make a claim when his sofa was damaged. Fortegra tried to 
repair the sofa but was unable to do so. It later offered to replace the sofa and to contribute 
50% towards the cost of a second sofa as Mr Ss sofas would no longer match.
Mr S complained because he said he couldnt replace his sofa for the amount offered. 
Fortegra said it had offered a fair settlement under the terms of the policy. So, Mr S 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Fortegra needed 
to settle the claim at an amount that allowed Mr S to replace his sofa and with a 50% 
contribution towards the cost of a second sofa due to the loss of match. He also said 
Fortegra should pay £300 compensation because of the delays in progressing the claim and 
the lack of updates throughout.
Fortegra didnt think the outcome was fair because it was concerned there was no limit on 
the cost of the replacement sofa. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr Ss sofa couldnt be repaired. The same sofa was also no longer available, so it couldnt 
be replaced with an identical sofa. I reviewed this complaint and told both parties I 
considered it was reasonable to settle the claim for £1,258.50. This was because the sofa 
company told this service what the closest equivalent sofa was and how much it cost. Both 
parties were told the details of the sofa and that the settlement amount I considered 
reasonable was the cost of this sofa, plus 50% towards the cost of a second sofa due to loss 
of match. 
I also said Fortegra could pay the settlement direct to the sofa company, rather than as a 
cash settlement to Mr S, as this was how it had previously proposed to settle the claim. I 
said I also thought it was reasonable for Fortegra to pay Mr S £300 compensation. Having 
reviewed what happened during the claim, I think there were delays in progressing the claim 
over a prolonged period and that Fortegra also could have done more to keep Mr S up to 
date on what was happening.
Both parties were invited to provide comments. Both Mr S and Fortegra said they agreed to 
resolving the complaint in this way. So, Im issuing this decision to explain what I consider to 
be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, along with my reasons for this, and to 
bring the complaint to a close.
Putting things right
Fortegra should settle the claim for £1,258.50, which it can pay direct to the retailer that 
would provide the new sofa, and pay £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd to:
Settle the claim for £1,258.50, which it can pay direct to the retailer that would provide 
the new sofa.
Pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman