DRN-3098354
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc provided him with credit irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Ms credit card account was opened in February 2015 with a credit limit of £200. In 
May 2017 the credit limit was increased to £450.
Mr M complained to Capital One in April 2021. He said that Capital One shouldnt have given 
him a credit card in 2015 or increased the credit limit in 2017 as the lending wasnt 
affordable in his circumstances. He said he was experiencing financial difficulties and relied 
on his credit card for everyday living costs and repaying other creditors. 
  
Capital One said the complaint about the initial credit card sale was out of time - as more 
than six years had passed before Mr M raised his complaint. But it did look into the credit 
limit increase in 2017. 
But, having done so, Capital One didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
carried out relevant affordability checks which included reviewing Mr Ms credit file along with 
the conduct of how his account had been managed. And it found that these checks didnt 
reveal any signs of financial distress. Unhappy with the outcome, Mr M referred his 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator said that - under our rules, Mr M had referred the original lending decision to 
us too late. But he said we could look into the limit increase in 2017. However, he didnt 
uphold this part of the complaint. He thought the checks Capital One had done when it 
increased Mr Ms credit limit to £450 were proportionate to the level of borrowing and didnt 
indicate any reason why Capital One shouldnt have increased Mr Ms credit card limit.
Mr M accepted that we couldnt consider the complaint about Capital Ones initial decision to 
provide a credit card to him. But he didnt agree that Capital One had done sufficient checks 
when it increased the credit card limit. He provided copies of his bank statements showing 
his income and outgoings which included gambling transactions and details of other 
creditors.
Our investigator didnt think this altered the outcome hed reached. He said that: the bank 
statements post-dated the limit increase; occasional gambling transactions didnt indicate he 
was reliant on gambling to make ends meet; and, that the existence of other creditors didnt 
automatically mean Capital One had done anything wrong. 
He accepted that if Capital One had made further enquiries about Mr Ms financial situation it 
would have seen other risk indicators. But he didnt think Capital One had been required to 
do due further checks in the individual circumstances of this limit increase.  
Mr M responded with extracts from the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  the 
regulations which set out a lenders responsibility when providing credit, and details of other 
complaints which had been upheld. As Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings, his 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
Mr M has already accepted that this service cant look into the initial lending decision when 
the credit card was given to him in 2015. So, for clarity, this decision solely relates to the 
credit limit increase in 2017. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the information Mr M has provided after our investigator sent Mr M his findings 
on the complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.   
Capital One is required to lend responsibly. It needs to conduct checks to make sure that 
any credit facility it provides is affordable and sustainable for the customer. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. For example: 
the credit limit offered, 
how much needs to be paid back (including interest), 
the monthly repayment, and
what it knows about the customers financial position. 
Generally speaking, sometimes we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it. For 
example, in the early stages of a lending relationship or when the lending amount is modest. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the amount lent was high or if 
several limit increases/other credit had been previously given. 
In Mr Ms case, the credit limit increase in 2017 was the first limit increase since inception of 
the credit card facility. It was increased by £250  from £200 to £450, and the minimum 
monthly repayment required each month was 1% of the outstanding balance plus interest 
(subject to a minimum of £5). I consider this to be a very modest credit limit and monthly 
repayment amount. 
Capital One says that, when it increased Mr Ms credit limit in 2017, it reviewed the conduct 
of his account during the previous 12 months. And that it found the account was well 
maintained  payments were made on time, often more than the minimum payment required 
and on occasion Mr M cleared the balance in full. I have reviewed the transaction history on 
the account that Capital One has provided to support its findings and Im satisfied there 
wasnt anything about the conduct of Mr Ms account directly leading up the credit limit 
increase which should have concerned it. 
Capital One has also shown that it did a credit search on Mr M. Ive seen the results of that 
search and Im satisfied that this shows Mr Ms annual income to be around £5,200. But it 
does also show that he missed one monthly payment to another creditor in the previous six 
months. So, Ive thought about this carefully. But I dont think one missed payment in the 
previous six months - in itself, is enough reason for Capital One to have thought providing a 
credit limit of £450 was unaffordable or unsustainable to Mr M at that time.Mr M has provided a full copy of his credit file which he feels explains his financial situation 
in more detail. And I can see that this shows Mr M did have other occasional missed 
payments to other creditors more than six months before Capital One increased his credit 
limit. However, the report also shows that Mr M was able to recommence his payments in 
the following months after the missed payments. So, I dont think a few missed payments  
spread over a period of time and over six months before the limit increase, is enough for     
Capital One to think Mr M couldnt afford a credit limit of £450 on his income. And given his 
account with it had been well managed up to that point. 
I can see that after May 2017, Mr M went on to encounter further problems with missed 
payments which resulted in defaulted accounts with other creditors. But this information 
wouldnt have been available to Capital One in May 2017 when the limit increase was 
applied. 
Mr M has provided copies of his bank statements and other documents which he thinks 
would have made a difference if Capital One had checked them. But, as I have mentioned, a 
lender is required to do propionate checks based on the amount of credit it was providing. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think Capital One should have been unduly 
concerned about Mr Ms financial situation at the time the credit limit was increased to the 
extent that it needed to do more checks than it did. I think the checks it did were 
proportionate at the time. 
Mr M has also provided extracts of the outcomes reached in other similar complaints  in 
particular, referring to a lenders responsibility to monitor customer accounts for signs of 
financial hardship and step in to offer support. And I can see that Mr Ms account did go on 
to incur late payment and over limit fees  which potentially can indicate a consumer is 
having difficulty making repayments.
But Ive seen from the customer contact notes Capital One recorded on Mr Ms account that                 
its monitoring systems did pick up that Mr M may have been experiencing a potential 
problem post May 2017. The notes show that Capital One emailed Mr M on more than one 
occasion with details of support on how to manage finances. The notes also indicate that it 
went on to offer Mr M a payment plan (which at the time he declined) and refunded some 
charges. So overall, I do think Capital One monitored Mr Ms account and stepped in to offer 
support as I would expect it too. 
Ultimately, I can see that a long-term payment plan was later agreed via Mr Ms third-party 
representative. While this led to the account being defaulted, this meant Mr Ms was able to 
pay less than his contractual payments and it prevented further interest and charges being 
accrued. So here, I think Capital One met its responsibility to treat Mr M sympathetically 
given his financial circumstances. 
I understand that Mr M has had similar complaints about other lenders upheld. So, I realise 
that the outcome here isnt what he was hoping for. But the other complaints were about 
different types of lending and/or different amounts of credit which may have required those 
lenders to do more in depth checks. 
Ive considered this complaint on its own merits and individual circumstances. And  
for the reasons given, I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Capital One to take 
any further actions at this time. My final decision
Overall, I dont think Capital One did anything wrong when it increased Mr Ms credit card 
limit. So, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman