DRN-3146451
The complaint
Miss B complains AWP P&C SA (AWP) has not settled her medical bills following a claim 
for treatment abroad. 
What happened
Miss B took out a single trip STA Travel insurance policy, underwritten by AWP. She 
travelled abroad and unfortunately, while she was away, she became unwell with stroke-like 
symptoms. Miss B attended a hospital, and underwent tests and an MRI scan. 
Following the tests, Miss B was diagnosed with major depressive disorder, generalised 
anxiety disorder and panic disorder and was prescribed medication. 
Miss B said she called a number on the insurers website, and was given authorisation for 
treatment before going ahead with the tests at the hospital. And in January 2019, she made 
a claim for the costs of the medical treatment she received. 
AWP said the business Miss B called for authorisation of her treatment, which I will refer to 
as G, wasnt the correct one. It said G didnt provide the medical assistance line for Miss 
Bs policy, so was unable to authorise treatment. 
AWP said it would go on to assess Miss Bs claim, but thought the treatment she received 
abroad was linked to a pre-existing condition of depression. It said this hadnt been declared 
when the policy was taken out. And it asked for further medical evidence. 
There were significant delays in AWP receiving the medical evidence it requested from Miss 
Bs GP. And many emails Miss B sent to AWP chasing an update went unanswered. 
In October 2019, Miss B contacted AWP and said she had been told the medical provider 
abroad would be passing the unpaid bills to a debt collection agency. Miss B said she has 
been advised AWP could request that her account was put on hold and not passed to the 
debt collector, and she asked AWP to do this. And in December 2019 Miss B contacted 
AWP again about the progress of her claim, and advised she was being chased directly by a 
debt collector. 
In June 2020, Miss B complained to AWP about the time taken to assess her claim, which 
had originally been made in January 2019. She said she had continued to be pursued by the 
debt collector in relation to the unpaid medical bills, and had been threatened with court 
proceedings. 
AWP apologised to Miss B that it was unable to provide a final response to her complaint 
within the usual timescales, and advised of her right to bring her complaint to this service. 
Miss B brought her complaint to us. She advised shed settled the hospital bills with the debt 
collection agency, but had to borrow money to do so, and was experiencing financial 
hardship as a result.
An investigator here looked into what had happened and initially upheld the complaint. They 
said the significant delays in AWP reaching a conclusion on Miss Bs claim were 
unexplained. And based on the information available, Miss B hadnt been treated fairly. They 
thought AWP should settle the claim and pay Miss B compensation. 
In June 2021 AWP declined the claim on the basis that Miss B hadnt declared her pre-
existing mental health conditions when she took out her policy.
Following the investigators view, AWP provided this service with more information. And it 
issued a final response to Miss Bs complaint. It said it had declined Miss Bs claim, as she 
had consulted with a doctor in the 12 months prior to taking out her policy, and had been 
taking medication for a mental health condition, but had not declared this. And it said the 
diagnosis given following Miss Bs hospital treatment abroad was directly linked to the pre-
existing condition. 
AWP apologised for the delays and poor communication during the assessment of Miss Bs 
claim and offered £600 in recognition of this. 
In light of the further information provided by AWP, an investigator reviewed everything 
again and issued a second view on the complaint. They said they thought Miss Bs claim had 
been fairly declined. But AWP should pay £900 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss B by the delays in assessing her claim. 
AWP accepted the investigators view and the increased compensation amount. However, 
Miss B disagreed. In summary she said:
shed declared her mental health condition when taking out her earlier policy over the 
phone in 2016 and said her father confirmed the same on her behalf for her renewed 
policy in 2017;
STA accepted her pre-existing medical conditions over the phone, but didnt confirm 
this in writing; and
she called the telephone number on STAs website for authorisation of her treatment 
and didnt know this was for a different business. And the business she called 
confirmed the treatment was authorised, so this led her to believe she was covered.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Declinature of the claim 
The relevant law which applies here is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
AWP declined Miss Bs claim, as it said she made a misrepresentation by not 
declaring her pre-existing medical conditions when she renewed her policy. However, 
AWP has not provided evidence which persuades me it was entitled to do this. In line 
with CIDRA, AWP can refuse to pay the claim if Miss B made a careless, deliberate 
or reckless misrepresentation, which AWP can evidence made a difference to the 
policy it would have offered, or if it wouldnt have offered a policy at all. As Ive not 
seen evidence of this, Im not persuaded it was fair for AWP to decline the claim. 
To put things right, AWP should now re-assess the claim, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Authorisation of the claim
AWP has said Miss B visited the insurers website for the country she was visiting, 
rather than the UK website. And this is why she was presented with an incorrect 
telephone number for medical assistance. 
I dont think it would be reasonable for me to hold AWP accountable for the incorrect 
advice provided by the other business - G. And, having reviewed the policy 
documentation, Im satisfied the correct telephone numbers to use in a medical 
emergency were provided in a way that was sufficiently clear. 
However, Im persuaded Miss B made efforts to contact her insurer for authorisation 
of the claim, and thought cover had been confirmed for her treatment. So, I dont 
think it would be fair for AWP to turn down the claim on the basis that it had not pre-
authorised treatment. 
Delays
There were significant delays in the handling of Miss Bs claim  she waited more 
than two years for AWP to make a decision. AWP has accepted responsibility for the 
delays and agreed it didnt provide the right standard of service. It offered £600 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss B. However, the 
investigator thought this should be increased to £900, and AWP agreed. 
In these particular circumstances, I think £900 is fair. I say this because its clear to 
me Miss B has suffered considerable distress and inconvenience due to the delays in 
AWP handling her claim. In particular because she was being chased by the 
overseas provider and later a debt collector, in relation to the medical bills which she said she couldnt afford to pay. And she borrowed money to settle the debt, and has 
been left in financial difficulty. I accept this must have been very upsetting and 
worrying for her, and went on for a significant amount of time while she waited for an 
answer on her claim. 
The response to my provisional decision
Miss B responded to my provisional decision and accepted what Id said. 
 
AWP also responded, and said it had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any further points, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct AWP P&C SA to re-assess Miss Bs medical expenses 
claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And to pay £900 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss 
B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman