DRN-3505432
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold an agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited 
(Shawbrook) when he was supplied with new windows.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
On 10 May 2021, Mr T entered into a fixed-sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
amount of credit was £3623 payable over 60 months. The funds were provided so that Mr T 
could pay for new windows he had obtained from a company Ill call A, who were also the 
installers. 
Mr T says the reason he had sourced new windows was to reduce the noise from the traffic 
on the busy road he lives on. He says he approached A after seeing information on their 
website which specifically stated it provided windows that would reduce or block out
the sound from the road outside.
Mr T says he was very clear to the salesperson from A that his reason for obtaining new 
windows was to block out the noise from the outside. Mr T says this is why the option of 
Safe Sound windows or triple glazed windows were presented to him. He says he had 
carried out a lot of research into the options for this type of window and liked what A were 
offering on their website.
Mr T says once the windows were fitted and some necessary remedial works had been 
done, the reduction of noise was not satisfactory. He complained to A and also to 
Shawbrook, as he believed he had been mis-sold the windows.
In its final response dated 23 April 2021, Shawbrook although partially upholding Mr Ts 
complaint regarding the remedial works that he had complained about, didnt uphold his 
complaint in regard to the mis-selling of the windows. It said, Mr T hadnt selected the Safe 
and Sound option and had instead received triple glazed windows. It went onto say that 
although there should still have been some notable sound reduction, a technical inspection 
stated that as the property has airbricks for ventilation, these will always allow sound to 
penetrate the building.
Mr T was unhappy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr T. He was persuaded that Mr T had sought new 
windows for the purpose of reducing outside noise. He wasnt persuaded that the airbricks 
had caused the issues with the sound quality. He reached that decision as only the lounge 
widow had an airbrick for ventilation, the other two widows were fitted for bedrooms and 
neither had an airbrick but the there was no noticeable reduction in noise in these rooms 
either. He thought a reasonable person would expect there to be a reduction in noise when a
company says, triple glazing has the best acoustic performance and sound insulation
properties of all Anglian windows.  As Mr T says this was the reason, he purchased them 
and that there has been no notable sound reduction, he reached the view the windows were 
not of satisfactory quality and so he upheld Mr Ts complaint. He suggested Shawbrook took 
the following action to put things right:
Arrange for the windows to be removed at a time and date suitable to Mr T.
Refund Mr T his deposit of £199.00
Refund Mr T all payments made towards this agreement
Terminate the agreement and mark it as settle
Pay Mr T £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has
caused him 
Add 8% simple interest* to the refunded amounts from the date paid to refunded
Shawbrook disagreed. It said Mr T did not purchase the Safe and Sound product and opted 
for triple glazing which although should give some sound reduction it also provided insulation 
and the airbricks do contribute towards the noise level and so the windows will not be able to 
eliminate this completely.
Mr T said he would prefer a full refund for the windows and had in any event decided to sell 
his home.
As both parties did not agree it has been passed to me to make a decision.
In my provisional findings I explained when something goes wrong and the payment was 
made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to 
recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
I explained when considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not 
determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 
75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont 
have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr T made a claim 
through them for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Firstly, I looked at the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. Section 75 says that If the debtor 
under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation 
to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, 
with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
 In this complaint, Mr T is the debtor, Company A are the suppliers and Shawbrook are the 
creditors. So, I said, I was satisfied that the requirements for a section 75 complaint are 
intact, and I can assess this complaint under section 75. 
I then considered whether a breach of contract or a misrepresentation had occurred.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which causes the consumer to go ahead 
with the contract.
In this case the supplier visited Mr Ts home, which is adjacent to a main road, and, based 
upon Mr Ts testimony and the discussion between the two options of Safe and Sound and Triple glazing, I consider it to be more likely than not that noise reduction would have been 
discussed and I find it reasonable that would have been very important to Mr T.
I also acknowledged Mr Ts point that both options claims to reduce outside noise, but Mr T 
makes two further points which led to his decision. One being that the salesperson from A 
indicated that he could expect complete silence and the other being his knowledge of a 
friend in in London who had triple glazing and benefited from a significant noise reduction 
where the property was on a busy main road.
I said I hadnt seen any evidence from the literature that the triple glazing, Mr T opted for, 
would result in complete silence in the property. I cant fairly consider his experience at a 
friends property as I have no comparable details and there is more than likely a number of 
differentials in terms of the location, property type and the actual product itself.
Mr T didnt purchase the more expensive safe and sound windows and instead opted for the 
less expensive triple glazed option. I wasnt present when the salesperson discussed the 
noise reduction and the degree to which the triple glazed windows would offer a benefit to 
the road noise Mr T was undoubtedly experiencing beforehand. But I said I wasnt 
persuaded, based on the evidence in the file, that there has been a misrepresentation of the 
product here.
Company As website states that the triple glazed windows have the best acoustic 
performance of all the windows, but it doesnt state they will eradicate all external noise but 
rather the windows have better thermal efficiency.
I appreciate Mr T does not feel the windows have reduced the noise level to his 
requirements, but that doesnt mean the windows havent reduced the noise level at all nor 
that they are of an unsatisfactory quality.
Company A also point to a number of factors about the property itself, such as the age of 
the property and the air vents, which in themselves mean even triple glazed windows could 
not eradicate noise entirely nor it says did the company suggest they would do so.
So, it seems Mr T is saying the windows havent reduced the noise levels enough and A is 
saying the windows have provided both noise and thermal insulation. Theres no evidence 
that there are any issues with the windows themselves and Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I said based upon the evidence I had seen I wasnt currently minded to uphold this 
complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity to make any further representations they wish me to 
consider before making a final decision.
Shawbrook had no further comment to make.
Mr T responded. He gave an analogy to demonstrate why he didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. He also said the decibel count hadnt reduced by that indicated on the 
Anglian website and he had provided evidence to that effect. He felt this evidenced had not 
been considered in reaching my earlier decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent seen any additional evidence to persuade me to alter my view 
from that of my provisional decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. And although I have considered all the information 
provided by both parties in detail, Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In this case, Mr T says he had a conversation with a salesman that led him to think the 
windows he had fitted would eradicate all noise from his home. He also had the discussion 
about Safe and Sound windows and ultimately opted for the less expensive triple glazed 
windows. Because I wasnt present, I dont know what was said in relation to each of the 
types of window and to what degree the different types of window reduce noise pollution. But 
I havent seen any evidence that suggest Anglian has claimed in its literature that any of its 
window range can eradicate all noise pollution. 
It indicates there should be a reduction in the decibel level certainly from its Safe and Sound 
range, but Mr T didnt opt for that option. The triple glazed offers some reduction, but I am 
persuaded by the testimony from the engineers report when he says there are a number of 
other factors that will impact the level of noise pollution a person can experience inside their 
home. The engineer points to wall vents but sound can also penetrate through walls with low 
or no cavity wall insulation and chimneys.
Mr T had provided some information from a decibel recording application on his phone but 
again there are a number of factors that can interfere with this function so as limit the weight 
I can place on this as being evidence representing solely the noise pollution reduction the 
windows alone provide.
I appreciate Mr T is disappointed with my decision but based upon what I have seen I am not 
able to reach a view that the contract he entered into was misrepresented and so Im unable 
to uphold his complaint.
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman