DRN-2201752
The complaint
Mr M says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says Mr Lender didnt check to see if he was in the position to afford the loan 
repayments. He had to borrow further to repay the lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about four payday loans Mr Lender provided to Mr M between March and 
December 2016. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 03/03/2016 17/06/2016 3 £250.00 £181.33
2 20/06/2016 28/10/2016 4 £370.00 £166.50
3 29/10/2016 30/12/2016 3 £300.00 £162.40
4 30/12/2016 Outstanding 3 £650.00 £362.26
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought loans three and four shouldnt 
have been given as Mr Ms borrowing behaviour suggested he had become persistently 
reliant on this type of lending. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator but did offer to reduce the amount owed on loan 
four to the capital amount borrowed and set up a repayment plan. It would also remove any 
adverse information about the loan once it was repaid.
We put the offer to Mr M but didnt hear back from him. And Mr Lender further responded to 
the adjudicator that the borrowing history for loans one and two showed all repayments were 
made without any sign of financial difficulty. The reduction in the amount borrowed at loan 
three showed Mr M wasnt financially dependent on the product. Mr Ms circumstances were 
only a temporary situation and he repaid loan three early which indicated he wasnt 
struggling financially. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for decision in my 
role as ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr M didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr M had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
three. I say this because:At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr M had taken out three loans within seven months. So, Mr 
Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £250 and loan three was for £300.  At this point Mr Lender 
ought to have known that Mr M was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. I note that Mr Lenders comment that 
loan three was for £70 less than loan two. But it was still higher than the initial 
lending and didnt indicate a significant or consistent reduction in borrowing. And    
Mr M then went onto borrow the much higher amount of £650 at loan four.  
For the whole of the lending chain, Mr M was provided with a new loan within days of 
settling a previous one. And loan four was taken out the same day that loan three 
was repaid. Mr Lender has said that as loan three was repaid early this showed Mr M 
wasnt struggling financially. But repaying a loan early can also be an indication that 
someone is juggling their finances, which I think is clear in this case as loan four was 
taken the same day loan three was repaid and for more than double the amount.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan four 
was taken out nine months after Mr Ms first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr M 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan three 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans three and four and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ms loan has been transferred to a third-party Mr 
Lender should buy the loan back if it can. If Mr Lender cant buy the loan back, then it needs 
to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then Mr Lender should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr M. 
E) The number of loans taken from loan three onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans three and four should be 
removed from Mr Ms credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan four from 
Mr Ms credit file until this has been repaid, but any adverse information recorded 
about this loan should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr M still has an outstanding balance due, then Mr Lender should 
try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr M in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Mr Lender of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman