DRN-3429148
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) overcharged 
him for damage to a car he returned at the end of a finance agreement. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr B signed an agreement under which he was responsible for any damage to the car which 
went beyond fair wear and tear. MBFS set out in broad terms what it deemed to be 
acceptable. This is in line with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations 
guidelines.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration since the car was subject to an initial inspection at his 
property at which only some damage was identified and he took this to mean that he would 
not have any charges to pay. However, the car was subject to a second inspection at the de-
fleet centre under conditions which allowed a number of dents and scratches to be seen. 
MBFS told Mr B that the car could be subjected to a second inspection.
Our investigator has explained why she considered all but one of the areas of damage to be 
chargeable and having reviewed both sets of photographs I find myself in agreement. 
Obviously I was not present at either inspection and so I have to base my judgement on the 
two inspection reports.
The left had front alloy wheel has damage to a spoke and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the contract this is deemed to be chargeable. I do not believe this to be a mark 
which could have been wiped away as suggested by Mr B. 
I also consider the dent to the left-hand front door to be chargeable. Having looked at the 
photographs I am satisfied that it is greater than 15mm and so it falls outside what is 
deemed to be fair wear and tear.
The inner right-hand rear door dent wasnt picked up on the first inspection, but I can see 
that it is damaged. It seems most unlikely that this dent was made in the very short period 
between the two inspections. It is more likely to have occurred during the lease period which 
ran for several years and therefore I consider it should it be chargeable. 
The left-hand quarter panel is also dented and this was picked up in both inspections. It is 
relatively short, but it falls on the swage line and I am satisfied that there is some damage to 
the paint. As such it is chargeable.
Finally, I agree that the damage to the right-hand front alloy wheel is due to fair wear and 
tear and so is not chargeable.
MBFS has offered to reduce the charge by 10% to compensate for delays in responding to 
Mr B and I consider that to be fair.
Putting things right
MBFS should reduce the charges as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to remove the charge for damage to the right-hand front wheel and to 
apply a 10% reduction to the final bill.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman