DRN-1835603
 
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mrs O (helped by her son, Mr O) on behalf of the estate of her 
late mother, Mrs R. 
Mrs R was a customer of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc until her death in March 2019. Mrs 
O has complained to RBS because she believes a relative of Mrs O made a number of 
unauthorised payments from her RBS account during her lifetime. 
What happened
Mr O has explained that, after Mrs R's death, he and his mother identified a number of 
payments from her account that they didn't believe she had made or authorised. There were 
a number of indications that this wasn't the case. They included:
payments made to DVLA and for car insurance, even though Mrs R didn't drive;
payments made online, even though Mrs R was unable to use a computer; 
payments made for gambling transactions; 
short term loans paid from Mrs R's account; and 
the lapse of an insurance policy when there were insufficient funds left in the 
account.  
Mr O explained too that Mrs R's nephew didn't have an account of his own, and so paid his 
wages into her account; Mrs R's own money was also paid into the account, and this had 
included a substantial pension payment for her late husband.  
The bank looked into the complaint, but said it couldn't be sure whether or not Mrs R had 
authorised the payments from her account. Due to the passage of time, it had limited records 
of individual transactions, so couldn't carry out a full investigation. 
Mr O  referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He too 
thought however that it wasn't really possible to know which payments had or had not been 
authorised by Mrs R. It was possible that Mrs R had given her nephew authority to operate 
her account; and handing over, for example, her card and PIN would be treated as an 
extension of that authority. In the circumstances, he didn't believe that RBS should have 
done more to prevent the disputed transactions or that it should refund them to Mrs R's 
estate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first of all comment briefly on the authority that I have to consider this complaint. It's 
brought on behalf of Mrs R's estate, so I must be satisfied that those bringing it represent the 
estate. Mrs O has said that her mother didn't leave a will and that she is Mrs R's only 
daughter. Because there was no will and because the estate is small, there's been no formal appointment of a representative. I'm satisfied though that I should treat Mrs O as the estate's 
representative. 
I have however reached broadly the same conclusions here as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons.
Mr O has explained that Mrs R appears to have allowed her nephew access to her account - 
both to pay money into it and to make withdrawals and payments. He wasn't a joint account 
holder. I accept that Mrs R probably didn't set up or use online banking herself and most 
likely didn't make or benefit from many of the payments made on the account. It may well be 
that Mrs R wasn't fully aware of and didn't expressly authorise all the disputed transactions. 
However, it does appear to me - largely from what Mr O has said - that Mrs R effectively 
treated her nephew as a joint account holder and gave him similar access to her account. 
And the picture is further complicated by the fact that he paid money into the account, so it's 
less clear to what extent he was spending money that he had contributed. 
As I've indicated, I think it likely that Mrs R didn't specifically authorise some of the 
payments. But I can't fairly conclude that she didn't allow her nephew general access to her 
account; indeed, I think it's likely that she did. In the circumstances, I believe I must treat the 
disputed transactions as authorised. 
I've considered too whether RBS ought to have done more to prevent the spending on the 
account. In the circumstances, however, I don't believe I can properly say it should have 
done. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require The Royal Bank of Scotland to take any further steps 
to resolve the estate's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask the estate (through Mrs ) to accept or reject my decision before 7July2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman