DRN-2145114
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of his limited company, F, that Southern Rock Insurance 
Company Limited treated its commercial motor insurance policy as though it had never 
existed when a claim was made on it after a van was stolen. 
What happened
The policy started on 18 July 2019. Mr R was asked if he had any criminal convictions and 
answered No. When Fs vehicle was stolen in January 2020 Southern Rock carried out 
validation checks. It found that Mr R had been convicted of an offence in 2015. It said had it 
known the true facts, it wouldnt have offered cover to F. Mr R said it had dealt with a claim 
made against F in October 2019 after an accident and had paid the other partys costs. He 
said it should have carried out full checks before doing that. Southern Rock later required a 
refund of its outlay on the 2019 claim, which Mr R thought was unfair.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. She thought Southern Rock had acted 
reasonably. She thought Mr R should have disclosed the conviction. She said as it would 
have made a difference to Southern Rock - and it thought Mr R had acted recklessly - it was 
entitled to retain the premium. She accepted that the theft claim was looked at by a team 
that carried out different checks to those done by the team that validated accident claims. 
She thought Southern Rocks process was reasonable. She didnt think the small amount of 
poor service it provided merited an award for inconvenience. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. He said Southern Rocks poor service had 
impacted on him severely. Many of Mr Rs comments related to another complaint about 
Southern Rocks service, which is being reviewed separately. In relation to this case, he said 
he was pressured into answering the question about convictions. And he said Southern 
Rock should have cancelled the policy after carrying out full checks on the first claim.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is a commercial policy, the provisions of the Insurance Act 2015 apply. Under that 
Act, Mr R had a duty to give a fair presentation of risk to Southern Rock when applying for 
Fs policy. He had a duty to disclose either 
everything he knew  or ought to have known  that would influence its decision on whether 
to offer insurance or 
provide enough information to put Southern Rock on notice that it needed to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances
During the call, the advisor told Mr R he was required to make a fair presentation. I think he 
must have realised when asked about criminal convictions that this was an issue Southern 
Rock thought was important. So his answer was likely to influence its decision. If Mr R was 
in any doubt, he could have said he had a conviction, but he thought it might be spent. Or he 
could have asked the advisor if he was only asking about unspent convictions. Instead, Mr R 
said No without any hesitation. 
As I dont think Mr R made a fair presentation of risk to Southern Rock, I must consider what 
it would have done if hed disclosed the conviction. Southern Rock has shown that it wouldnt 
have offered cover. That means there was a qualifying breach under the Act. If theres a 
qualifying breach, an insurer has the right to take action. And it must decide if the customer 
acted deliberately or recklessly. If so, it can avoid the policy (cancel it from the start) not deal 
with any claim and retain the premium. Even if the qualifying breach wasnt deliberate or 
reckless, if the insurer wouldnt have provided any cover, it can still avoid the policy and not 
cover any claim, based on a careless breach - but it must return the policy premium. 
Southern Rock thought Mr R had acted recklessly and didnt care whether he was in breach 
of the duty of fair presentation. I think that decision was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr R says he chose not to mention the conviction as he thought it might be spent or might 
not be relevant. But he didnt check. I think that amounts to not caring whether it was or not. 
So I think its fair for Southern Rock to retain the premium. 
Had Southern Rock carried out full checks after the accident in October 2019, I think its 
likely that it would have avoided the policy at that point. Mr R may then have been able to 
find other insurance that would have covered F for the theft three months later. I can see 
why hes frustrated by that, but I think Southern Rock has the right to decide what checks it 
carries out, based on the type of claim made. It says theres more scope for fraud in theft 
claims, which is why more checks are done on those claims as standard. 
I dont think theres anything to show that Mr R was pressured into answering the advisors 
questions when applying for cover for F. The only way to obtain insurance is by answering 
an insurers questions. It seems there was some confusion about what business underwrites 
the policy, and Mr R had some difficulty in making a complaint on Fs behalf due to being 
given various contact details by Southern Rocks advisors. But the policy holder is F. It cant 
suffer distress, and I dont think Mr R has shown that F was inconvenienced, or that any poor 
service referred to in this case had an impact on its operations that merits compensation.  
    
As I dont think Southern Rock acted unreasonably, Im not upholding this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R on behalf of 
F to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman