DRN-3501264
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his let property insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, as he feels 
the claim settlement it made to him for damage done to his property by his previous tenants 
and for lost rent was insufficient.
What happened
In August 2020, the tenant having vacated the property, Mr M found damage in a number of 
rooms. Items belonging to him were also missing. A claim was made to Ageas and it sent a 
loss adjuster to the property, following which a report was issued in September 2020. Ageas 
noted the limit on the policy for malicious damage and theft by tenants of £5,000. It didnt 
think the property was uninhabitable. In March 2021 it said if Mr M would accept the 
settlement of £5,000, this would be paid to him.
Mr M was unhappy with this. Particularly regarding loss of rent. But he also felt there had 
been delays and that other damage had occurred since the loss was first notified, with other 
damage covered by the policy having been overlooked by Ageas. 
Ageas reviewed the other damage, whilst maintaining its £5,000 offer for the initial damage 
accepted under the claim. In August and September 2021 Ageas said it would pay Mr M a 
further £4,618.86 (in addition to the £5,000), broken down as:
£309.98 for stolen white goods, net of the policy excess.
£808.88 for accidental damage to sanitary ware, net of the policy excess.
£3,300 for rent lost  six months, due to its delay in progressing the claim.
£200 compensation for upset caused. 
Ageas also set out its views on other damage and/or costs Mr M had asked it to pay but it 
felt it wasnt liable for. In summary:
Front door  suffering general wear and tear.
Laminate flooring  gaps in planks, but no sign of a water leak and likely pre-existing.
Stair carpet  ripped, felt to likely be wear and tear.
Boiler  been overfilled but this type of damage isnt malicious.
Shower  no sign damaged maliciously or accidentally.
Damp  occurs gradually and property lacks/needs damp proof course.
Utility bills  went unpaid, policy doesnt offer cover for that.
Lost rent over and above the six months offered  property was not uninhabitable. 
Mr M challenged the reasoning behind Ageas limited offer. He said there should also be 
cover under the policy for the cost of rubbish removal. He said he would accept £12,000 in 
full settlement of both his losses due to the claim as well as those caused by Ageas delay. 
When Ageas wouldnt revise its offers further, Mr M complained to us. He told us that, in 
addition to the above disputed elements, he had to pay council tax in 2020/2021 as well, 
which he wouldnt have had to if the property had been tenanted.
Our investigator felt Ageas should be paying more, for the damaged carpet and for removal 
of rubbish. But that its settlement offers, including that for compensation for upset, were 
otherwise fair and reasonable. Mr M disagreed, particularly about compensation for upset  
pointing out his health had been affected. But also on several topics of damage. His 
complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans consideration.
I felt the complaint should be upheld. But my reasoning and the awards I felt were due 
differed to those set out by our investigator. The key difference being in respect of lost rent 
and compensation. So I set out my views, and related awards in a provisional decision, my 
findings from where were:
policy excesses
Ageas has taken an excess from the settlements for theft (S1.A.7 of the policy) and 
accidental damage to sanitary ware (S1.B). The other damage in dispute would appear to 
fall for consideration under the policy cover for either accidental damage (S1.A.12) or 
escape of water (S1.A.6). For any damage I find Ageas should pay for under either of these 
covers, Ageas can reasonably deduct one policy excess for each area. Strictly speaking the 
policy would allow one excess for each instance of damage, and some damage might have 
occurred at different times. But it would be prohibitive, and therefore, unfair, to apply an 
excess for every instance. And I see Ageas explained exactly this premise, regarding 
malicious damage (S1.A.4), to Mr M in its letter of 23 August 2021. 
malicious damage, white goods and sanitary ware 
These areas/costs arent in dispute so Ill say little more about them. Except to note that 
even though Ageas didnt feel the malicious damage identified would in the end, cost £5,000 
to resolve, it maintained its offer of that figure. The total it felt the malicious damage repairs 
would cost was £2,927.71. And it said that it was reasonable for it to maintain the £5,000 
offered in case costs had changed over time. I think that was reasonable. 
front door
This is marked and the lock mechanism was damaged. I note Ageas objection to paying for 
this to be repaired. I also note Mr Ms contractor said the door was likely marked accidentally 
and the lock had similarly failed. His explanation about the lock damage implies that the 
mechanism was likely damaged when the tenants last closed the door when leaving the 
property  he had to be called to open it. 
I think the scuff mark, even noting Mr Ms contractors view, cant reasonably be said to most 
likely have occurred accidentally whilst the tenants were leaving the property. This is the 
type of mark that occurs during normal use and could have occurred at any time. But I find 
the contractors comments about the lock persuasive. I dont think the tenant would have 
been living with a front door they couldnt use, and Ive no reason to doubt the contractor had 
to be called to open it on the day the tenants left. It seems most likely to me it was damaged 
as they left  and the contractor thinks this was accidental. Mr M says the door can be 
repaired but I havent seen an estimate to evidence the cost of this. If Mr M wants Ageas to 
settle for this, he will have to send his estimate to Ageas. If Mr M has had the door repaired 
already, Ageas will have to add interest* to the settlement it pays to him from the date he 
paid for the work until settlement is made.
stair carpet
It is ripped. Ageas said this was likely wear over time. Mr Ms contractor confirmed it looked 
like rips caused by large objects being moved over it  and the carpet had only been fitted 
new the year before. Like our investigator, I think Ageas should pay for the carpet 
replacement as it seems it was most likely accidentally damaged by the tenant. I havent 
seen an estimate to evidence the cost of this. If Mr M wants Ageas to settle for this, he will 
have to send his estimate to it. If Mr M has had the carpet replaced already, Ageas will have to add interest* to the settlement it pays to him from the date he paid for the replacement 
and/or fitting until settlement is made.
laminate flooring
There are gaps between the planks. Damage like this is most commonly caused by water 
leaks (or sometimes poor fitting). But it seems there are no signs of the flooring having been 
subjected to a leak. And Ageas has said Mr M told it the damage was there when he last let 
the property. I dont see that Mr M has sought to challenge Ageas view on the flooring. And 
I cant see, from the detail Ive been presented by the parties, that it is something I could 
reasonably say Ageas is likely liable for. So I wont make any award in this respect.
boiler
Mr M thought this had been accidentally damaged, Ageas said it should be considered as an 
escape of water claim. Im unsure why Ageas said that as the boiler itself did not leak. 
I realise that Mr Ms plumber said it had been over pressurised causing leaks internally. But 
that is not what the policy offers cover for  that is damage caused by water escaping from 
an appliance or water system. So I dont think the damaged boiler is covered under the 
escape of water section of the policy, and Ive considered whether it would fall for cover 
under the accidental damage section.
The policy says accidental damage is damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an 
outside force. The plumber said the damage was caused by over pressurisation, likely 
having resulted from excessive filling of the boiler. I think that would equate to an outside 
force. But he hasnt commented on whether this could or might likely have been done by the 
tenant by mistake i.e. unexpectedly. If they knowingly overfilled the boiler that would not 
meet the definition of accidental damage (as damage would be expected)  and the 
malicious damage limit has already been reached. Nor does he say if the damage occurred 
suddenly. His letter of 28 August 2021 talks about the possibility of a lot of damage which 
can occur due to over pressurisation but, the underlying theme of that, I think, is that as 
pressure builds and is maintained, parts fail. And as one part fails, that has a knock-on effect 
on other parts. It seems to me, from what he has said, that it is, or on occasions at least can 
be, a gradual process. His evidence doesnt persuade me that the boiler at Mr Ms property 
failed suddenly and unexpectedly. So, Im not persuaded Mr M has shown he has a valid 
claim for the boiler under the accidental damage section of the policy. As such, Im not going 
to require Ageas to cover its reinstatement cost. 
shower
Here Ageas said this wouldnt be covered as an escape of water, or malicious or accidental 
damage. Mr Ms contractor said he felt it had been damaged accidentally by water being 
sprayed onto it, causing damage internally. 
I havent seen that there was any escape of water (water exiting where it was meant to be 
within a water appliance or system) which caused damage to the shower. There hasnt been 
any suggestion the shower was damaged maliciously. Mr Ms contractor thinks it was 
accidentally damaged by being sprayed with water. But Im not persuaded this is most likely. 
A shower is designed to be used in a wet environment and should be capable of 
withstanding accidental splashing. Otherwise showers would fail all the time during normal 
use. So Im not persuaded Ageas should reasonably have to pay for fixing or replacing the 
shower under the policy.
rubbish removal
The policy offers cover for removing debris associated with damage accepted as covered 
under the policy. So if, for example, to fix damaged plaster walls, plaster has to be removed, 
the policy will cover the cost of that removed plaster being taken away. The policy wouldnt 
generally offer to clear all rubbish left at a vacated property. Tenants do sometimes leave a mess because they either dont know they should clean it up, or they dont care enough to 
do so. But it isnt usually malicious. I say that because I think Mr M is expecting Ageas to pay 
for clearing all the discarded items and rubbish left at the property by the tenants. And I want 
to be clear  I dont think it is liable for that. But I do think that Ageas should be liable for the 
cost of removing rubbish/debris from the property which is associated with the damage it has 
accepted, as well as that which I have found it is liable for, under the policy. For the 
avoidance of doubt that is the:
malicious damage to; the wall and door in the bedroom and lounge, the landing ceiling 
and the kitchen base units
broken toilet
failed lock mechanism on the front door
ripped stair carpet.
If Mr M has costs for removing debris related to any of these repairs/replacements, he 
should send the details, including estimates and or invoices setting out the costs, to Ageas. 
It should pay the reasonable, clear sums detailed without delay. If Mr M has had the work 
done and rubbish removed already, Ageas will have to add interest* to the settlement it pays 
to him from the date he paid for the removal (of debris caused by insured works) until 
settlement is made. He will have to produce his estimate for payment to be made.
delay
Ageas has acknowledged there were delays of around six months. But I think the period of 
delay was longer than that.
Mr Ms tenants left in August 2020. It would always have taken, even a properly managed 
claim, a little while to progress. I see a loss adjuster issued a report in September and 
around then the policy limit for malicious damage (clearly stated on the policy schedule) was 
identified. And it was also clear at that time that there was some damage that might fall for 
cover outside of that  such as accidental damage to sanitary ware. I have no idea why it 
took so long for even the initial offer regarding malicious damage to be made. Or why the 
other damage wasnt all considered together, although it isnt unusual for claim settlements 
to be made piecemeal. Claims like this can be complex as there is a lot of damage to 
consider against multiple areas of the policy. And evidence needs to be gathered. Allowing 
for that I think a properly managed claim of this nature should have been resolved, to a point 
where Mr M could have progressed the majority of repairs, by the end of October 2020. 
As it was it was only in March/April 2021 that Ageas offered Mr M £5,000 under the 
malicious damage claim. But, at that time, the loss adjuster told Mr M that he had to accept 
that in settlement of his claim for the sum to be paid. What the loss adjuster should have 
done  and did do later  was to say Mr M could have this as an interim payment whilst his 
further concerns were reviewed. Clearly Mr M felt he was due further settlement, and he was 
correct in that respect. So I can understand him not wanting to accept just the £5,000 on the 
table. It was 14 June 2021 before Mr M was offered this sum as an interim settlement. And 
this was then paid to him on 4 August 2021. I think the settlement of £5,000, whilst not all 
that was due to Mr M for repairs, did represent the majority of the claim value. And, I think, 
shouldve been enough for him to get the majority or insured repairs done  Ive explained 
my views on what damage I think Ageas is liable for above. So I think Ageas caused this 
claim to be unreasonably delayed between November 2020 and July 2021 inclusive.  
damp
Damp will occur over time in an empty property if it is not heated and/or ventilated properly. 
Mr Ms property was empty for a long time. And Ive found that Ageas did cause the claim to 
be delayed over a prolonged period (November to July). But I bear in mind that Mr M knew 
the house was empty and he could have looked to prevent damage occurring. And its important for me that the damage which occurred  damp and the like  was entirely 
unrelated to the damage claimed for. So Ageas delay did not cause damage it was 
otherwise liable for under the policy to deteriorate further. Im also mindful that Ageas seems 
to think the property was always in need of a damp proof course. All in all, Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair, even though Ageas caused extensive delays to the claim, to make it 
liable for resolving the damp issues/damage at the property. 
But I accept that it was upsetting for Mr M to know the claim was being delayed and to see 
the house was being affected in this way. Whilst I think he could have done more to prevent 
that  I bear in mind that preventative action would never have been needed and he wouldnt 
have been being caused upset if the claim had been handled in a timely manner. So Ill take 
that into account when I consider compensation.
lost rent
Ive first thought about Ageas liability under the policy. The policy says that if the property is 
damaged by a cause covered by Section 1A of the policy and, as a result of that damage, 
cannot be lived in, Ageas will cover the policyholder for rent lost. So for Ageas to pay Mr M 
for rent lost, the property has to be uninhabitable because of damage Ageas is liable for 
under S1A of the policy. And uninhabitable doesnt just mean it would be uncomfortable to 
live there. This service often views uninhabitable to mean where a home lacks some of the 
basic necessities  no electricity, heating, hot water or any sanitation or cooking facilities. 
But a very wet home, which is suffering damp and/or mould, perhaps as the result of a major 
water leak, might also be seen as uninhabitable. And looking at the specifics of this claim the 
relevant covers available under S1A of the policy are escape of water, theft, malicious 
damage and accidental damage.
Mr Ms property had electricity. There is an issue with the boiler  which may mean theres 
no heating or hot water at the property. But I have found it is not something Ageas is liable 
for under S1A of the policy. 
Mr M says the only toilet in the house couldnt be used  and Ageas settled for that damage. 
But that was under accidental damage to sanitary ware  which is S1B of the cover.
Mr M has provided a photo of the hob in the kitchen which he says shows the cooking 
facilities were affected. The photo appears to show missing rings. In that case it is likely the 
hob cannot be used and that type of damage might fall for cover under S1A as malicious 
damage, or theft if the rings are not in the house. But Ive not seen this damage having been 
considered by Ageas at all during the lengthy claim  or mentioned by Mr M in his 
correspondence with it. In any event, even if the hob cannot be used, that doesnt mean the 
oven cannot. Im not persuaded there is an absence of cooking facilities at the property. 
There is clearly damp and mould in the property. And it may well be that is severe enough to 
mean the house is not safe to live in. But Mr Ms argument with the damp is that it occurred 
because the home was left empty for so long following the incident and claim. So it isnt part 
of the damage covered by the policy. 
Therefore, having considered all of that, Im satisfied that Ageas has no liability, under the 
policy, to Mr M for rent lost. But its clear the claim was delayed. So Ive thought about 
Ageas liability for rent lost due to poor claims handling.
Ageas paid Mr M six months lost rent due to its delays. Applying that to my time period for a 
reasonably handled claim (set out above in my section on delays)  that reimburses Mr M for 
lost rent for November 2020 to April 2021. Mr M has said he wants his losses through to 
October 2021 to be reimbursed by Ageas. Referring again back to my section on delays, 
I dont think payment over that whole period is reasonable. Ive found that Ageas delayed matters unreasonably until the beginning of August 2021 so Im going to require it to settle 
for Mr Ms lost rent to that point. That is a further three months of rental payments for it to 
pay  May 2021 to July 2021 inclusive. Rent was £550 per month. So that is £1,650 for 
Ageas to pay.
Ill also require Ageas to pay interest on each of the monthly rental amounts that Mr M 
should have received during the whole period of delay, November 2020 to July 2021 
inclusive. The monthly rental amount is £550 and Mr Ms previous lease shows rent was due 
on 20th day of each month. Ageas will, therefore, need to apply interest on £550 from 
20 November 2020 until settlement is made. And also on £550 from 20 December 2020 until 
settlement is made. And so on, until interest is paid on all rental amounts that Mr M should 
have received but didnt because of Ageas delay, up to and including 20 July 2021.
council tax
I dont know if Ageas has had the chance to consider this. But it makes sense to me for me 
to address it here, as it is something which is really a part of the lost rent issue. Ageas has 
accepted that there were delays and offered six months lost rent. Ive added to that and 
clarified that the total period for delay over which lost rent is to be paid is November 2020 to 
July 2021 inclusive. If the house had been tenanted during that time, Mr M wouldnt have 
had to pay council tax. It follows that Ageas should reimburse him any council tax he had to 
pay for the period November 2020 to July 2021 inclusive. Plus interest* on each sum he 
paid, applied from the date each was paid until settlement is made. He will have to produce 
his bills for payment to be made.
utility bills
Ageas said Mr M wanted it to pay for bills the tenant hadnt paid. He doesnt have cover for 
that. I think that response from Ageas is reasonable. But Mr M told our investigator it was the 
cost of bills for the period the property was unoccupied that he wanted Ageas to pay. Whilst 
the policy wouldnt cover that either, Ageas did delay the claim between November 2020 and 
July 2021. Following my findings and awards for lost rent and council tax, I think Ageas 
should reimburse Mr M for gas and electricity costs he incurred for usage (including any 
standing charge) at the property during November 2020 to July 2021 inclusive. To any 
individual amount Mr M paid for that, interest will have to be added to the settlement from the 
date the sum was paid by him until settlement is made. He will have to produce his bills for 
payment to be made.
compensation
I understand that this has been a worrying time for Mr M. And Ive seen a letter provided 
from his Primary Mental Health Nurse. I know Ageas has seen this letter to, so I wont go 
into it in detail here. In short it confirms that Mr Ms health has suffered on account of this 
prolonged claim  which Ive found Ageas unreasonably delayed. And it seems he had been 
suffering for a few months by the time he saw the nurse as that appointment had resulted 
from a GP referral. Also Mr M told Ageas in May 2021 that he was very stressed and had 
received a sick note from his doctor.
Mr M has also explained that his family have been upset by matters too. Whilst I cant take 
their upset into account, I bear in mind that their upset would have caused further anxiety for 
Mr M. Including that he has described that his mother felt compelled to move away rather 
than continue to see him suffer. 
That was all over and above the general frustration and worry Mr M was experiencing 
directly on account of the delayed claim. And Ive mentioned about the upset he was caused 
by seeing his property deteriorate. I also understand that the loss of rent had financial 
implications for Mr M, so he was worried about that too. In summary, in my view, the period over which this claim was delayed was excessive, and 
that had a cumulative and extreme effect on Mr M, in that his health suffered. That is on top 
of the general frustrations and worry caused by dealing with the prolonged claim. I think 
Ageas should pay him a total of £2,000 compensation to make up for all of that. I understand 
that £200 has already been paid. So Ageas need only now pay Mr M, if my final decision 
remains the same and Mr M accepts it, a further £1,800. 
Ageas didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M asked me to review my findings about 
damp and compensation. 
Regarding the damp, he said he had done what he could to prevent damage  installing 
dehumidifiers and opening the windows two to three times a week. But he ultimately had to 
fit an electric damp proofing unit. He explained that he had told the loss adjuster in 
September 2020 that he expected damage would occur if the claim was not settled quickly. 
Mr M said he felt the fair outcome would be for the cost of repairing the damp to be split 
between him and Ageas.
In respect of compensation Mr M said his health will be affected for a long time and has 
caused him to leave his job. He said his mother lost her life due to the upset caused by this 
claim  and he will always bear that guilt. Mr M said £2,000 cant bring his mother back to 
him and doesnt meet what he has lost from leaving his job. He concluded that for everything 
he and his family suffered, £2,000 is not enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to or commented on the majority of my findings, Ive no need 
to change or add to them. But, in light of Mr Ms reply, Ive reviewed matters further in 
respect of the damp and compensation. 
I can understand why Mr M feels he shouldnt bear all of the cost for resolving the damp at 
his property. But the fact he had to fit electric damp proofing demonstrates that the 
underlying cause of the damp was unrelated to the loss suffered. And whilst I know he says 
he did all he could to look after the property during the winter of 2020/2021, Im conscious 
that he could not and did not heat it because the boiler had failed. I found provisionally that 
Ageas had no liability for fixing that. If Mr M knew damage would occur over the winter 
without some significant action, Im not persuaded that installing a dehumidifier and opening 
the windows occasionally was a reasonable reaction to that threat. I remain of the view that 
whilst I am satisfied Ageas delayed settlement of this claim, it is not fairly and reasonably 
liable for the damp that resulted at the property or the costs Mr M incurred resolving that.I understand that this has been a more than difficult time for Mr M and likely his family too. 
But, as I explained provisionally, I cant take into account the upset of his family. And whilst 
I know Mr M believes his mothers passing was directly related to this claim, I cant know if 
that was the case. I also cant know how much her loss affected his health further, or 
whether he was impacted by anything else. So I cant reasonably accept that his leaving his 
job most likely occurred because of the upset Ageas caused him by failing to handle this 
claim in an appropriate and timely manner. That said, I know that losing his mother in such 
circumstances, and having seen his family become worried about his failing health are 
difficult for Mr M to bear. I also accept there is no quick fix for Mr Ms health  he wont 
immediately recover upon receipt of my decision. And I can assure Mr M that if I had not 
accepted the extreme affect Ageas failures had had on him, Id likely have found it fair and 
reasonable to award far less compensation. In the circumstances here, and for the reasons 
which Ive explained I am awarding compensation for, I am satisfied that £2,000 in total is a 
fair and reasonable award. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr M:
An amount for the cost of repairing the front door lock and replacing the stair carpet, 
pending proof of these from Mr M, less the £100 policy excess for accidental damage 
claims. But, if Mr M has already paid for this work and can show that, to add interest* on 
the cost charged for each job, from the date each was paid for until settlement is made.
An amount for rubbish removal for any debris that occurs due to works, insured under 
the policy (see above), being undertaken at the property. But if Mr M has already had the 
work done and rubbish removed, to add interest* on the cost paid until settlement is 
made.
£1,650 for rent lost for the period May 2021 to July 2021 inclusive.
An amount equivalent to interest* on each monthly amount of rent of £550 from the 20th 
of each month  as explained above  until settlement for the rent lost is/was made.
An amount to reimburse council tax charged for the property between November 2020 
and July 2021 inclusive, subject to proof of costs. And where Mr M evidences his 
payment of any costs, apply interest* to each amount paid until settlement is made.
An amount to reimburse charges for gas and electricity usage at the property between 
November 2020 and July 2021 inclusive, subject to proof of costs. And where Mr M 
evidences his payment of any costs, apply interest* to each amount paid until settlement 
is made.
£1,800 compensation, making total due against this claim £2,000, with £200 having 
already been paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr M for HMRC purposes. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman