DRN-3277801
The complaint
Mr H has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In September 2015 AvantCredit provided Mr H with a loan of £2,700. The loan was 
repayable over 48 months and the monthly repayments were £148.87. The APR was 
79.57%. 
The loan was repaid out of the proceeds of a further loan of £4,200 from AvantCredit in May 
2016. The second loan was repayable over 60 months and the monthly repayments were 
£154.78. The APR was 45.4%.
Mr H said the purpose of both loans was to consolidate his debts.
Mr H complained that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked he could afford the loans.
AvantCredit looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said its checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loans were sustainable. Mr H referred his complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She thought AvantCredit was wrong to have 
offered the loans to Mr H. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loan 1
Before granting this loan, AvantCredit asked Mr H about his income and expenses. Mr H told 
it that his net monthly income was £1,120. It verified that figure using a standard industry 
tool. The check came back showing Mr Hs monthly income was a minimum of £1,054. Mr H 
also said his expenses (including his other credit commitments) were £400 a month. I note 
that although he said he was living in rented accommodation, his expenditure figures didnt 
include an amount in respect of rent.
AvantCredit carried out a credit search. That showed Mr H had opened three new credit 
accounts in the last three months. His total monthly credit payments on his active credit 
accounts were £335. There is also evidence that he had a history of taking pay day lending. 
He was almost up to the limit on his overdraft and his credit card. There was one over-
indebtedness indicator present.
I acknowledge that Mr H had applied for the loan to consolidate his existing debts. Assuming 
hed done that, his credit commitments could have been reduced but this is all speculation 
because I havent seen any evidence that Mr H told AvantCredit which debts he intended to pay off with the proceeds of the new loan. Also AvantCredit could have paid off the debts 
directly rather than paying over the whole of the loan amount to Mr H but didnt do so.
In my opinion the credit search ought to have raised concerns to AvantCredit. The fact that 
he was already committed to spending almost a third of his monthly income on credit 
repayments could have been seen as an indication that Mr H had problems managing his 
finances. Also given Mr Hs credit file showed a clear history of using short-term loans, I 
think it would have been advisable to try to find out whether any recent loans werent yet on 
his credit file. I think overall based on what it had initially gathered, it should have looked to 
carry out a complete review of Mr Hs finances to assure itself that he could repay the loan in 
a sustainable way, especially as the loan term was for 48 months.
Mr H has provided us with some bank statements for the period just before taking out this 
loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that AvantCredit should necessarily 
have done. But I think looking at these might have given a good indication of Mr Hs financial 
situation around the time he applied for this loan. 
They show that for the month of August 2015 he took out three payday/short term loans and 
spent more than his net income on gambling transactions. If AvantCredit had carried out 
proportionate checks, I think it is more likely than not that it would have uncovered this and 
then not lent to Mr H. So Im not persuaded that AvantCredit acted fairly in lending to Mr H.
Loan 2
At the time Mr H applied for the second loan, he said his monthly income was £1,120 and his 
credit commitments had grown to about half of his income. I also note AvantCredit was 
aware that Mr H had fallen into difficulties with repaying the first loan after a few months. It 
had had to contact him about a missed repayment. If Mr H was having trouble repaying the 
first loan, it seemed to me that AvantCredit should have known that it would be probably be 
even more difficult for him to repay the second loan with slightly higher repayments over an 
longer period. 
In the light of this I think AvantCredit should have been aware that Mr Hs financial position 
wasnt getting better and that further credit was likely to make his situation even worse. I 
dont think AvantCredit treated Mr H fairly in approving the second loan.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt 
have provided the loans, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the amount due 
under the loan agreements. If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it 
back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
AvantCredit should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges on the loans;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Hs credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman