DRN-4438643
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about her caravan insurer West Bay Insurance Plc because it caused 
delays in repairing her fire damaged static caravan.
What happened
Mrs Ms caravan was damaged by a fire in June 2022. West Bay accepted a claim. But by 
September 2022 Mrs M was concerned that no repairs had been arranged. She noted she 
was losing access to the caravan  with her usually using it every weekend as well as each 
week during school holidays. West Bay apologised for delays to that date, paid £150 
compensation and assured Mrs M that the claim would move forward.
By January 2023 Mrs M was further upset. The repairs had still not been finished. She was 
worried that her pitch fees were due again  shed lost use of the caravan through most of 
the previous year following the fire and, as the new pitch year began, had no idea when 
shed be able to use the caravan again. West Bay offered a further £150 compensation and 
assured Mrs M the repairs were then nearly complete, with just cleaning outstanding. Mrs M, 
returning the £150 cheque to West Bay, complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt West Bay had delayed the claim. She said it should pay a total of £500 
compensation. West Bay agreed. Following some further discussions about Mrs Ms use of 
the caravan and what she had done without access to it, our Investigator said West Bay 
should reimburse a holiday booking for a break Mrs M had taken in October 2022, and £300 
as a loss of use payment. 
Mrs M said she felt that was fair. West Bay agreed to reimburse the holiday booking with 
interest. But it didnt think it reasonably had to pay £300 as well. The complaint was referred 
for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay has accepted, in September 2022 and in February 2023 that it caused delays to 
this claim between July 2022 and January 2023. With it acknowledging that work was only 
authorised in October 2022 and it not managing that with the repairer such that by 
December 2022 it wasnt clear what was happening with the work. And I note that Mrs M 
spent a lot of time chasing West Bay, enquiring what was happening. So I only need to 
determine what is required to put things right for Mrs M.
Mrs M used the caravan most weekends, and during the school holidays. But with it being 
out of action she had to change her usual plans. That might be expected for a month or two 
whilst a reasonably managed repair programme was undertaken. But the delays in this claim 
meant the caravan was not fully repaired until after Mrs M brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in January 2023. So her usual plans were disrupted for many 
months. And there was all the chasing Mrs M did in the meantime too. I accept there was 
significant inconvenience and disruption for her. Im satisfied that £500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for upset. I understand West Bay paid £300 in total to Mrs M, but that she 
didnt cash £150 of that. It need only now pay what is owing.
I need to think though more specifically about the loss of use of Mrs Ms caravan. She had a 
cost for a holiday booking in October 2022. I understand this was booked because her 
caravan wasnt available. West Bay has agreed to reimburse that, plus interest. I think thats 
fair. But I also think its fair that a more generalised loss of use payment is made to Mrs M. 
Mrs M pays ground rent each year which enables her to use her caravan. But during the 
latter half of 2022 particularly and into 2023, she wasnt able to benefit from that rental cost. 
And I dont doubt that she would have been using her caravan most weekends if West Bay 
had repaired it in a reasonably timely manner. I think £300 is fair compensation for loss of 
use in the circumstances here. 
Putting things right
I require West Bay to pay Mrs M:
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience, less any amount already paid by it, 
where such was paid by cheque, where that sum has been cashed by Mrs M. 
£219, as reimbursement of the cost of a holiday, plus interest* from the date the holiday 
was paid for until settlement is made. 
£300 compensation for loss of use.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require West Bay to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman