DRN-3744870
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) defaulted her loan account.
What happened
Miss M took out a loan for £5,000 from Lloyds in March 2019. Payments were £175.72 per 
month. These were made until May 2020 when Miss Ms income was affected by the 
pandemic. The payments for May, June and July 2020 werent made. On 31 July 2020, 
Miss M called Lloyds who agreed to a payment plan of £50 for two months. Interest was 
zero. One payment of £50 was made. On 22 September 2020 and 23 September 2020, 
she spoke to Lloyds again and they agreed a three-month payment plan  whereby no 
interest was charged and no payments were needed. The plan was to end on 22 
December 2020. On 13 October 2020, Lloyds sent a Notice of Default showing arrears of 
£467.16  which had to be paid by 31 October 2020. On 25 November 2020, Lloyds 
defaulted the loan with the arrears at £642.88. The debt was sold to a debt collection 
agency with the balance £3,491.38.
Miss M complained. She said she was on an agreed payment plan. And she had been told 
on the phone by Lloyds to ignore the letters they sent about arrears and default. So, she 
said the default was a surprise and was unfair. She said that had she known there would 
be a default added to her credit file, she wouldve asked her family to help her out. She is 
now having trouble getting a mortgage because of the default on her credit file.
Lloyds said Miss M hadnt made the contractual payments to her loan and therefore it fell 
into arrears. These were reported to the credit refence agencies as true information. They 
agreed that Miss M was told to ignore the letters sent to her  and paid compensation of 
£75 for that error. But Lloyds said that Miss Ms income and expenditure information 
showed she couldnt make the payments, and so her loan wouldve defaulted regardless. 
The loan had been sold to a debt collection agency (DCA) and she should arrange 
affordable payments to the loan through them.
Miss M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds acted reasonably. Miss M
had negative income and couldnt afford the payments. He thought the loan was in arrears 
by seven months, and so it was reasonable of Lloyds to default the loan  this was in line 
with the ICOs guidance which said an account may be defaulted after three months of 
arrears, and certainly it should be defaulted if there were six months arrears. Lloyds acted 
in accordance with the letters that theyd sent to Miss M. He agreed that Miss M had been 
given the wrong information on the phone, but Lloyds payment of compensation of £75 
was right for that error. So - he said Lloyds didnt need to do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree, she asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
In looking at Miss Ms complaint, I considered whether she shouldve been given a 
payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme. If she qualified for that, then there 
likely wouldnt have been a default or advices to the credit reference agencies. In April 
2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response 
to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Lloyds, had 
to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including loans  to help 
customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays 
each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would 
not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the 
accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation 
was that they were in longer term difficult - or where there were already arrears - then 
payment holidays under this scheme werent normally agreed.
Looking at Miss Ms situation, she had already missed two payments to her loan when she 
called Lloyds in July 2020  so she was in arrears by then. So that would mean she didnt 
qualify for the scheme. So  that can be set aside.
When Miss M called Lloyds on 31 July 2020, she said she intended to return to work after 
a period of furlough. Lloyds agreed a two-month payment plan with payments of £50 to be 
made in August 2020 and September 2020. But I can see that only one payment was 
made  on 4 September 2020  so the plan was broken. But Lloyds agreed there had 
been a confusion over whether there shouldve been a manual payment made, or a direct 
debit payment  and agreed to remove the late payment marker for that month from Miss 
Ms credit file.
Miss M then called Lloyds again on 22 September 2020 and Lloyds returned her call on 23 
September 2020. On those calls, it was established that she hadnt returned to work  but 
hoped to in three months time. Lloyds went through her income and expenditure and 
worked out her outgoings exceeded income by £401 each month. On the call on 23 
September 2020, Lloyds agreed a three-month payment plan  with no payments needed 
and no interest to be charged. The plan was to run until 22 December 2020. The letter sent 
on 23 September 2020 confirmed the arrangement and said you wont need to pay 
anything into your account during this planthis temporary plan will not clear the amount 
you are behind by and your normal monthly payments are still due each monthbeing 
behind with your payments can affect your credit score. And so  Lloyds did confirm in 
writing what the terms of the plan were  and said that Miss M was still behind with her 
payments. But equally - the letter also said nothing needed to be paid until the plan ended 
in December 2020.
I listened to the call on 22 September 2020. On it, Miss M asked several times about the 
effect on her credit file. She was clearly concerned about that. Lloyds call handler said 
..there will still be arrears accumulating on your account even on a payment plan. But the 
call handler also said that (Im) not sure about what affect (there will be) on your credit 
file. And so, Miss M wasnt given a clear answer to her questions about her credit file.
Miss M called Lloyds on 23 September 2020 and I listened to the call. Miss M advised that 
she had a payment holiday agreed on her mortgage  the call handler said she would see 
how that affected the income & expenditure form. But she didnt do that  so I dont know if 
it wouldve shown that Miss Ms financial situation was improved, or by how much. Miss M 
asked again about the effect on her credit file, and the call handler said it would show 
arrears and that she was on a plan  but when she paid off the arrears, the credit file 
would show that. Miss M called Lloyds on 16 October 2020  and the call handler checked 
the payment plan and said, get in touch with us at the end of the payment plan in three 
months time. So  for me, this meant nothing needed to be done until the plan expired on 
22 December 2020.I then considered again the letter Lloyds sent to Miss M on 23 September 2020  this said 
you wont need to pay anything into your account during this plan. Your plan will end on 22 
December 2020. So  following the call that took place on that day, I think Miss M was 
entitled to assume that nothing needed to be paid until the end of the plan. But  Lloyds 
sent Miss M a Notice of Default on 13 October 2020 requiring payment of arrears of 
£476.16 by 31 October 2020. So, while Lloyds could do that  because of the arrears  I 
can see why Miss M was confused.
I listened to the call on 27 October 2020. Miss M had by then received Lloyds Notice of 
Default dated 13 October 2020 and was worried about it. She couldnt understand why that 
was happening as she said she was on an agreed payment plan, with no payments 
required. I heard her say ..so why am I getting letters through the post threatening default 
andarrears of £467 to be paid. Lloyds call handler clearly said these letters are 
automatically generated even though youve got a payment plan on your account and 
(the letters) do not mean you have to pay by 31 October (2020)just keep the letters for 
future referencethere is no need to make any payment. Miss M asked again So if I get 
another letter  ignore it?. Lloyds call handler replied, read itkeep it for future 
referencebut arrears are building up every month (and are now) £467.16 OK? . So, I 
think Lloyds gave the guidance to Miss M  that the letters could be ignored, and no 
payments were needed at all.
In December 2020. Miss Ms loan was defaulted and sold to a DCA  with the balance then
£3,491.38. The debt is still being managed by the DCA.
Lloyds argue that Miss Ms income & expenditure form showed a negative position, and 
she wouldve defaulted away. But  against this they shouldve considered the effect of 
Miss Ms payment holiday on her mortgage, but didnt. And  Miss M had said she 
wouldve got help from her family if she had known about the potential for default. I think 
we have to accept that to be the case.
On balance and in the circumstances of this complaint  I think it was reasonable for Miss 
M to think that a default wouldnt be registered on her credit file  as she was told to ignore 
the letters while on the payment plan, and was advised to do nothing until the end of the 
plan in December 2020. And the letters said nothing needed to be paid until the end of the 
plan.
I accept that Lloyds were clear on the calls that Miss Ms credit file would show arrears, 
and that an arrangement was in place  so those markers should remain. But the default in 
December 2020 should be removed from Miss Ms credit file; and the debt brought back 
from the DCA and a mutually agreeable repayment schedule agreed for the outstanding 
balance. Because of what happened, Miss M hasnt been able to get a mortgage  and this 
must have caused her considerable stress and anxiety, and so Lloyds should also pay 
compensation of £200.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Miss M agreed with it and asked how any final decision would be implemented. Lloyds 
agreed with the payment of compensation and removing the default. But they also said 
that the original term of the loan had an end date of July 2022 and so the loan should now 
be paid off in full by Miss M in one payment. 
I now need to consider these points.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering the final decision, we asked Miss M to confirm she could make the original 
contractual payments of £175.72 each month. We wanted to ensure she wouldnt be 
creating further problems for herself and possibly defaulting at a future date. She confirmed 
she could make the payments. We also advised her that our final decision is binding on 
Lloyds.
Ive considered what Lloyds have said. I dont know if Miss M has the means to pay off the 
loan in a lump sum. But in any case, it doesnt seem consistent with a final decision in her 
favour  to ask her to pay off the loan in a lump sum. If Miss M wishes to pay off the loan 
early, that is her choice. And so - I dont agree with Lloyds on that point and am therefore 
persuaded to not change my provisional decision. And because Miss M has said she can 
make the contractual repayments, it seems right that Lloyds take the loan back from the debt 
collection agency and put it back on a commercial basis. But thats a matter for Lloyds and 
Miss M to agree upon.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Remove the default dated December 2020.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Take back the loan debt from the debt collection agency and agree a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan with Miss M. She has said this can be with the original 
contractual payments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman