DRN-3058306
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has rejected his 
claim under his Gadget Insurance policy when his laptop computer was damaged.
References I make to Assurant include its claims handling agents.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. I received further comments from 
Assurant which Ill refer to below.
What happened
For some years Mr P has had an insurance policy with Assurant that covered him for loss 
and damage to his various devices including his laptop computer.
Mr Ps laptop suffered some water damage on or around 28 February 2021, so he first 
contacted the manufacturer on that date. At 10:08 am the next day, 1 March, he contacted 
Assurant. He wanted to know if his laptop was insured. Assurant had no record of this 
particular device having been registered with it, so Mr P registered it. 
Mr P contacted Assurant again at 13:01pm on 1 March to make a claim for liquid damage. 
He told Assurant that the damage had occurred that day. His claim was referred to a higher 
assessment team as the claim had been raised within the first 14 days of the policys 
inception for that device.
Assurant contacted Mr P about his claim on 8 March. It asked Mr P if hed had any previous 
problems with his laptop, and he replied that he hadnt. He said that the device started 
having issues on 1 March 2021, that he hadnt had any issues with the device before this 
date and hadnt reported any issues to the manufacturer before this date either. When asked 
if hed contacted Assurant before or after the damage occurred on 1 March, Mr P said he 
couldnt remember.
Assurant contacted the manufacturer who confirmed that Mr Ps device was reported to 
them with liquid damage on 28 February 2021. Mr Ps policy states that it only covers 
gadgets that have previously been registered with it. Assurant told Mr P that as this laptop 
was only registered with it on 1 March 2021, so after damage to it had been reported to the 
manufacturer, it wasnt insured.
 
Assurant then discovered that its records were incorrect, and that Mr P had in fact registered 
this laptop on 28 August 2017, so it was insured from that date. It acknowledged its error 
and paid Mr P £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
However Assurant continued to reject Mr Ps claim because hed told it that there were no 
faults or issues with his laptop before 1 March, and on 1 March, when registering the laptop, 
Mr P had confirmed that it was in full working order. It says this wasnt correct as Mr P had 
contacted the manufacturer about the water damage on 28 February. Assurant relies on a 
term of Mr Ps policy which states:
 If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we will
 Not honour the claim
Mr P had his laptop repaired by the manufacturer at a cost of £338.38. He wants Assurant to 
refund this to him. 
As Mr P didnt agree with Assurants rejection of his claim, he brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt consider that Assurant had acted unfairly as Mr P had 
provided false or inaccurate information about the date when the damage to his laptop 
occurred. In his view, Assurant was therefore acting in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr P doesnt agree with our investigators view, and hes asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
I think its clear that Mr P gave incorrect information to Assurant on both 1 March, when he 
registered his laptop and confirmed it was in full working order, and again on 8 March when 
he told Assurant that the damage had occurred on 1 March, when the manufacturer had 
confirmed that hed contacted it the previous day about a fault.
If that were the only information, I consider that Assurant would be entitled to reject the claim 
on two grounds. Firstly, the damage pre-dated the laptops registration under the policy, so it 
wasnt insured as at the date of the damage. Secondly, Mr P had given false information in 
order to have a claim met when it wouldnt have been met if correct information had been 
given.
However it is relevant that Mr Ps laptop was in fact covered at the time of the damage as it 
had been registered on 25 November 2019 although Assurant had originally not found its 
record of this. Assurants first ground for rejecting Mr Ps claim therefore no longer applies.
And its my view that the second ground also no longer applies because the misinformation 
Mr P provided doesnt affect whether the claim should be paid. It hasnt been suggested that 
Mr Ps claim was a false or exaggerated claim. His laptop was damaged, as evidenced by 
the invoice from the manufacturer for its repair. In providing misinformation as to the date the 
damage occurred, Mr P wasnt acting fraudulently in seeking to claim something he wasnt 
entitled to, or more than he was entitled to. His laptop was covered by the policy as at the 
date the damage occurred, and any subsequent lack of honesty doesnt in my view entitle 
Assurant to reject his claim on this ground. The approach Im taking here is consistent with 
the Supreme Courts ruling concerning a claim that was neither fictitious nor exaggerated but 
nevertheless had a falsehood attached to it.
In response to my provisional decision, Assurant referred to a policy term which states:
We rely on the information you provide to us either online, over the phone or in writing 
to make decisions about your insurance and any claim. If you do not answer 
accurately and completely any questions we ask, we might invalidate your insurance 
and/or we might reject your claim.
It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or 
the payment of your claim.
It argued that Mr P had provided false and misleading information and that therefore his 
claim was correctly declined.
Having considered this term, my view is that it isnt inconsistent with the approach Im taking. 
It states only that if false information is provided it might invalidate a claim. So for example, 
false information about the extent of any loss claimed for would entitle Assurant to avoid a 
claim. But, following the Supreme Court decision Ive referred to, false information might not 
go to the heart of a claim. I believe that is the case here.
Assurant also referred to another claim that Mr P had submitted in June 2021 for this device. 
My decision only deals with the claim made in March 2021.
Im therefore upholding Mr Ps complaint and requiring Assurant to settle the claim he made 
in March 2021 subject to the other terms and limitations of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to settle the claim Mr P made in March 2021 
subject to the other terms and limitations of the policy including any applicable excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman