DRN-2366145
The complaint
Mrs B, on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr B, says Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax, but at the time as Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance.
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments. Their 
mortgage began in 1991. Neither Halifax nor Mrs B can confirm how or where the
policy was sold. The policy was in Mrs Bs sole name and gave her protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B and the late Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional, and they had to
agree to take it out. Mrs B says she was unaware she had PPI, it was added without her 
informed consent. Halifax no longer has any of the paperwork from the sale but thats not 
surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. Ive found no evidence it is 
deliberately withholding any documentation as Mrs B suggests. And it has been able to 
provide screenshots of systems records showing that the policy started in July 1993. 
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Bs comments, but I also have to take into account how long 
ago this sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Also, the PPI was sold after the 
mortgage had started which suggests to me, she would have known it was a separate 
product that wasnt mandatory to get a mortgage. Overall, with stronger evidence I cant 
fairly conclude Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree to take it out for Mrs B.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs B and I think it seems to have been right for her based
on what Ive seen. Mrs B was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she
was sick but the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12
months for all accident and sickness claims. It also gave her redundancy protection for up to
12 months. Mrs B has told us she paid into her employers superannuation fund, but this isnt 
suitable alternative protection to PPI, it wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in 
the same way. Mrs B had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to use these 
for other living costs whilst she wasnt working, or to keep them intact for future needs. 
Mr and Mrs B had borrowed a large sum over a long period, secured on their
home. Given how serious the effects of not keeping up with their mortgage repayments
could have been, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if Mrs B was sick, had an
accident or lost her job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear, but the PPI was apparently 
affordable - I have used the higher cost of those quoted noting there has been some 
inconsistency throughout the investigation. And the cost was reasonable given the benefit it 
offered. I dont know what Mrs B was told about the main exclusions and limitations of the 
policy. However, Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions 
or limitations (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions or on 
certain types of employment contract).  Overall, I dont think better information wouldve 
changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B have lost out because of any 
problems with this sale. I know it has been quite hard for Mrs B to keep pursuing this 
complaint and I anticipate she may be disappointed with my conclusion. Its not easy in 
cases like this where there is limited evidence, but I hope my findings help her understand 
why I have reached my decision.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman