DRN-3983566
The complaint
Mr P complains about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr P has car insurance underwritten by esure. He made a claim after his car was damaged 
in an accident which was not his fault.
After having the car inspected, esure decided it was uneconomical to carry out the 
necessary repairs and wrote the car off. 
Mr P wasnt happy with esures valuation of the car and made a complaint to them. They 
maintained their position, saying that theyd used the correct method to value the car.
Mr P then brought his complaint to us. Hes not happy with the decision to write the car off, 
the valuation of the car and the fact that hes had to pay an excess to esure.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think esure had done anything wrong.
Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Writing off the car
The car was valued pre-accident at around £10,000. The expert engineer who assessed the 
car after the accident said the repairs would cost just over £9,000 in total.
Given that the car has a salvage value, it was clearly more economical for esure to write it 
off and pay Mr M the pre-accident value rather than pay for the repairs. Most insurers will 
write off cars if the cost of the repairs amounts to 60-70-% or more of the value of the car. 
Thats not unfair or unreasonable.
In this case, esure were entitled to rely on the experts opinion about the cost of the repairs. 
And it wasnt unreasonable for them to then sell the car for salvage. 
The car was written off as category N  which means there was no structural damage 
making it unsafe to repair. 
Mr P says hes aware the car has now been repaired and is on the road. It may well be that 
someone who bought the car from the salvager was able to repair it and sell it on at a profit, 
but that doesnt mean that esure made a mistake when they decided it was uneconomical for 
them to repair the car.
The car valuation
Mr Ps policy booklet say that when valuing a car thats been written off, esure will use trade 
guides, such as CAP, Glasss and Parkers to assist them.
In this case, esure used four guides  including all three mentioned in the policy terms. And 
then took an average of the four to value Mr Ps car. None of the four trade guide prices was 
a significant outlier compared to the others  the range of values given was quite narrow.
In those circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for esure to take an average. When we 
investigated Mr Ps complaint, we looked at a further (fifth) trade guide. Again, the value 
given for Mr Ps car fell within the range of values provided by the other guides.
The final payment to Mr P included a small deduction for damage which pre-existed the 
accident. That was perfectly reasonable and Mr P hasnt in fact questioned that deduction. 
The excess was also deducted from the market value of the car.
The excess
Mr P was aware of the excess on his policy when he took it out. And I assume he was aware 
what an excess is. 
In effect, an excess is an agreement between the insurer and the policyholder that the 
policyholder will pay the first amount of any loss for which a claim is then made. 
In this case, I can see that Mr P had a compulsory excess and a voluntary one  which he 
would have decided to add when he bought the policy, presumably because it brought the 
premium down.
The policy terms are clear that the excess is payable on all claims. That is not affected by 
whether the policyholder was or was not at fault for the accident which led to the claim.
The excess is, in effect, an uninsured loss  as I say, agreed in advance when the policy is 
taken out. Mr P is entitled to claim that uninsured loss from the third party insurer. And 
paying the excess back to Mr P is therefore the responsibility of that third party insurer 
(assuming they accept that their policyholder was totally at fault for the accident).
Theres no obligation for esure to involve themselves in that process. I understand theyve 
told Mr P theyll ask the third party insurer to pay the excess but thats their choice and is, in 
effect, a favour to Mr P. 
If Mr P isnt happy with the time its taking for the third party insurer to pay, he can pursue 
that with them himself. And, as I say, it is their responsibility, not esures.
Summary
Im satisfied esure were entitled to decide that the car should be written off, given the expert 
engineers opinion on the cost of the repairs. Im also satisfied they valued the car fairly and 
reasonably. And esure are under no obligation to refund Mr Ps excess and/or pursue the 
third party insurer to get them to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman