DRN-3853274
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr T holds with Santander UK Plc. Hes unhappy that 
Santander hasnt allowed him access to a new interest rate deal since his existing fixed rate 
ended earlier this year. He was already in arrears, and the increase in the monthly interest 
payment since the mortgage reverted to Santander standard variable rate (SVR) has 
caused further financial strain.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them
here.
Mr T has been struggling financially since the business he operates experienced a reduction 
in trading due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Santander allowed a payment holiday to help him 
when his income was dramatically reduced, but he continued to struggle and arrears 
accrued. Mr Ts existing fixed rate of 1.99% expired in March 2022, and the mortgage 
reverted to SVR, initially 3.75% but currently nearer to 5%. Mr T believes Santander should 
have agreed to put him on a new fixed rate, but it has rejected this because of his arrears.
The investigator who looked into the complaint didnt recommend it should succeed. Mr T 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; lenders have to consider context 
and individual circumstances in all cases. Most lenders, when asked to provide a new rate to 
a borrower with an arrears history, require the arrears to be substantially reduced before 
theyll consider offering a new rate.
Thats because most rate deals come with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage
ends during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession and then sold. Or, 
the borrower might decide the mortgage is unaffordable and that they need to sell the 
property, either to downsize or to go to living with family or friends, or into rented 
accommodation. 
If a sale happened for either of those reasons, then the ERC clause would be activated 
resulting in an extra amount being added to the closing balance on sale. So lenders typically 
guard against that risk by insisting on the arrears being brought under control before 
considering a new rate deal. 
The key thing any lender is looking for when assessing whether to make a change to a 
mortgage, is stability. When borrowers have been in financial trouble, the lenders will 
typically only agree a change if its satisfied the instability that caused the arrears in the first 
place has now passed, and the proposed change is about recovering from a financial shock 
that has now passed, even though its effects have not. Here, Santander wasnt satisfied 
Mr T had reached that stage, and whilst I appreciate that doesnt sit well with him, it was 
Santanders judgement to make.
In summary, Im not persuaded Santander acted unreasonably, or treated its customer 
unfairly, by not offering Mr T a fixed rate when his previous rate deal expired in March 2022.
To be clear, the decision Ive reached relates to the decision Santander made earlier this 
year, based on the situation as it stood at that time. Its possible that if Mr Ts situation were 
to improve, Santander might consider a further request more favourably. However, to be 
clear, nothing I say here would oblige Santander to agree to a future request for a change, 
and nothing of that nature should be inferred. Any future request for a new rate will still be 
subject to Santander assessment of its long-term viability at the relevant time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Santander Bank UK PLC. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman