DRN-3172822
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined 
its request to extend the term of a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan.
One of Rs directors, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
R took out a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) with Barclays in May 2020. 
The term of the loan was six years, as prescribed by the rules of the CBIL Scheme. 
The CBIL Scheme was one of a number of loan schemes launched to provide financial 
support to businesses dealing with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Under these 
schemes, lenders were provided with a government-backed guarantee for the loan 
repayments. The loan schemes were administered by the British Business Bank.
In September 2020, the government announced a range of measures designed to give 
borrowers more time and greater flexibility to repay loans taken out under the loan schemes. 
Mr S contacted Barclays with a view to extending the term of Rs CBIL from six to ten years. 
But at that time, the new measures hadnt yet been implemented and a timescale as to their 
availability wasnt known. The repayment flexibilities were subsequently rolled out on 1 April 
2021. 
Mr S followed up with Barclays about the outstanding request to extend Rs loan term, 
believing it to be available under the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) mechanism that had been 
introduced. But when speaking to Mr S on 16 April, the bank explained that this only applied 
to Bounce Back Loans and not CBILs. It said it could consider options to assist R, such as a 
repayment holiday  but that these would be subject to underwriters approval, rather than 
automatically available as with PAYG.
Mr S referred the matter to us as he thought Barclays was depriving it of access to a term 
extension that it was entitled to, citing a statement made by the Chancellor and information 
on the British Business Banks website. He was also unhappy at how long it had taken 
Barclays to respond to his queries, which dated back to October 2020. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. He thought the banks position was in line with the rules of the CBIL Scheme, under 
which the PAYG options werent available. And he didnt think the bank had been unduly 
slow in progressing things, given the various repayment flexibilities had only been confirmed 
on 1 April 2021.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He still didnt think Barclays had acted fairly, or in 
line with comments made by the Chancellor and some aspects of the British Business 
Banks published guidance. So he asked that an ombudsman review the matter and it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong for broadly similar reasons 
to those given by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I dont think there is any conflict between Barclays position and either the statement 
made by the Chancellor or the British Business Bank guidance that Mr S has cited. I say this 
because:
The Chancellors comments confirm that the government guarantee on CBILs would 
be extended for up to ten years, so that lenders could give borrowers more time to 
repay. Such extensions are possible under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, which is 
also confirmed in publications from the British Business Bank. 
The issue is that the ability to extend the term to ten years isnt automatically 
available for a CBIL, as it is for a Bounce Back Loan (through the PAYG options). 
Both the British Business Bank guidance and the Chancellors statement to which Mr 
S has referred make clear that PAYG options are only available in connection with 
Bounce Back Loans.
As Barclays confirmed to Mr S, a term extension is available on a CBIL but the 
decision to grant one would be subject to the banks discretion. This is in line with the 
rules of the CBIL Scheme as summarised on the British Business Banks website, 
which says that an extension can be made at the discretion of the lender if within its 
usual forbearance policies.
So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in declining to extend the term of Rs CBIL 
automatically and instead advising that such a request would be subject to approval by its 
underwriters. R retains the option of pursuing such a request. 
Ive also noted that Mr S enquired about the possibility of refinancing Rs CBIL with a 
Bounce Back Loan. But by the time he made this request, the loan schemes were closed, so 
Barclays correctly advised that this would not be possible. So I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong in this respect either.
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration at the time taken to get even to the stage that he did, bearing 
in mind his initial request was made in October 2020. But the options to make changes to 
borrowing under the loan schemes werent introduced until 1 April 2021, so it wasnt going to 
be possible for Barclays to advise or act until then. The bank then confirmed its position to 
Mr S on 16 April 2021  just over a fortnight later  which I think was a reasonable 
timeframe.
Mr S also says that Barclays didnt respond to his requests for a call back, although this isnt 
supported by the banks internal notes which suggest that calls were attempted but 
unsuccessful. In any event, I dont think this had a material impact on Rs position as 
Barclays wasnt going to be able to move matters forward much earlier than it did for the 
reasons given above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman