DRN-3185063
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly refused to consider 
her claim under her pet policy.
What happened
Ms M took a policy for her dog through another entity with RSA being the underwriter. The 
policy provided for accident and injury cover only, with a vet fees limit of £3,000 per policy 
year. 
Ms Ms dog became lame on a walk on 3 February 2020, the vet suspected a cruciate 
ligament issue. They advised rest for a few weeks and if no improvement to come back for 
an x-ray. 
Sadly, due to the pandemic Ms M could get her dog seen again until May. The x-ray 
confirmed a cruciate ligament rupture and her dog then had an operation to repair it.
Ms M said the entity through which she bought her policy said her claim was covered so she 
submitted her claim for £1,399.36. RSA said the claim circumstances didnt meet her policy, 
because there was no evidence of any accident, so it refused to pay her claim. 
So, Ms M brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think RSA did anything wrong. 
Ms M disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First like the investigator, Im only dealing with the actions of RSA here, not the entity from 
which Ms M bought her policy. So, Im not dealing with whatever that entity said to Ms M 
about whether her claim was covered or not. If Ms M remains concerned about that, she 
needs to make a complaint direct to that entity.
Ms Ms policy is limited to only paying claims that arise out of an accident. So, for any claim 
to be valid, there needs to be evidence of an accident. Both the summary table and policy 
wording are clear on this. The summary table in answer to the question as to whether 
illnesses are covered says the following:
No, unless the illness develops from an accident your pet suffers while insured under 
this policy.
The policy booklet also states the following;
We also dont pay: - the cost of treatment you choose for your pet that isnt as a 
result of an accident  for any illness that isnt as a result of an accident.
Ms Ms dog was out on a walk and began limping. There is no evidence that her dog 
suffered any accident or traumatic event on this walk, simply that she started to limp. The vet 
history also doesnt detail any accident or traumatic event. For this policy to respond to the 
claim made, there must be evidence of an accident event. Here there isnt.
Cruciate ligament rupture as RSAs internal vets stated, doesnt usually occur from a 
traumatic event either which I consider is very significant. Rather its a degenerate disease 
process which causes gradual weakening or indeed fraying of the ligament which then 
causes it to rupture. So, whilst the word rupture sounds traumatic and indeed can be 
sudden too, the actual process by which the ligament ruptured tends to be disease driven. 
Given the lack of any accident whilst out on a normal walk, plus the generic process of 
cruciate ligament disease, theres no evidence before me to show this policy should respond 
to this claim, because there was no accident.
This is further apparent from Ms Ms own vet and vet history. First, there is no evidence of an 
accident and rather, the vet talks of cruciate disease.  Its therefore contradictory in my view 
for the vet to go and say this is consequently an injury. One doesnt have an injury in a 
disease process in this way. So, Im not persuaded by Ms Ms vets opinion on the matter. 
Rather Im more persuaded by RSAs internal vets view on the disease process of cruciate 
ligament disease leading to an eventual rupture. Consequently, I dont think the delays 
caused by the pandemic in repairing her dogs cruciate ligament has any bearing on the 
matter.
Ms Ms policy is very limited on what it will cover so in the absence of any accident and in 
given the evidence of how cruciate ligament disease occurs, I dont consider RSA did 
anything wrong in refusing to pay this claim. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman