DRN-3838784
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Williams & Watt Financial Planning Limited gave poor advice about the 
amount of contributions that could be paid into her personal pension and as a result, the 
value of her pension is lower than it would have been if she had been given the correct 
advice.
What happened
Mrs S and her husband Mr S run a business together through a limited company, which I will 
refer to as K. They are the directors of the company, which pays employers contributions 
into their pensions. They have been customers of Williams & Watt for some years. This 
complaint concerns the advice given to Mrs S about her pension; Mr S has also complained 
and his complaint has been looked at separately.
In November 2019, following a review of her pension arrangements, Mrs S received a letter 
from Williams & Watt recommending that she increase her pension contributions. The 
adviser said they would review this again at the beginning of 2020, as Mrs S would like to 
benefit from using the full allowance and would pay lump sums to bring her contributions up 
to the maximum allowed.
Following this, the monthly payments for Mrs S increased and a lump sum was paid, to bring 
the total contributions for her up to £40,000  the maximum allowed for the tax year. 
The next annual review was in November 2020. She received a letter in March 2021 
following that review (the advice having been delayed). Williams & Watts adviser said they 
had been speaking to Ks new accountant, who had advised they should pay more into their 
pensions, using the carry forward from previous tax years. The adviser said they had 
checked Mrs S income details for each year since 2016 and deducted the pension 
contributions made to see what allowances would be used. The letter said Mrs S had agreed 
to invest a lump sum into her pension to make use of the unused allowances for 2016/17, 
2017/18 and 2020/21.
Williams & Watt sent a revised letter a few days later. The adviser explained that they had 
made an error in not maximising the carry forward from 2015/16. She agreed to waive some 
of the fees to acknowledge the error.
A further letter was then sent advising there had been an overpayment in 2019/20 due to an 
error by Williams & Watt. It also advised that they couldnt use the unused allowance from 
2016/17 as it was only possible to go back three years from the year the overpayment was 
made. So they could only use the unused allowances for 2017/18, 2018/19 and 2020/21. 
This meant the amount that could now be paid in was lower than anticipated. Williams & 
Watt agreed to waive some fees to compensate for the missed payment. New illustrations 
and contributions were provided. The maximum that could be paid to use the unused 
allowances was £49,504 and an employers contribution for this amount was paid into the 
pension.
Mrs S complained that:
every year, she and Mr S had asked if there was anything else that could be done 
with their pensions; 
it was upsetting to find they had missed the chance to use the 2016/17 allowance 
when  they made the maximum payment in 2019/20  she could have arranged a 
larger contribution then, if she had known;
this error only came to light when she asked Williams & Watt to check this during the 
phone call in November 2020  and the full details only became clear following the 
conversation in March 2021;
even if the companys accountant should have noticed the error too, she relied on 
Williams & Watts expertise in relation to her pension.
Williams & Watt sent a final response to the complaint, saying
it did potentially miss the opportunity to maximise the contributions, but the 
accountant also had a role to play;
until the tax year 2019/20, Mrs S had never paid in the maximum contributions;
it was only in 2020/21, once she had changed to a new accountant, that Mrs S asked 
about this and by this time, she would not have been able to use the 2016/17 
allowance as more than three years had passed;
it wasnt clear she would have paid in over half the balance in Ks account, as the 
company would then have lost the use of those funds.
Williams & Watt offered a goodwill payment to K of £7,500 (less some fees that had already 
been deducted).
Mrs S wasnt happy with this offer and referred her complaint to this service but our 
investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He said although there had been some errors, 
he didnt think these had caused any financial loss, and the 2019 advice in itself was 
suitable. He also said Williams & Watt wasnt able to say how much money K could afford to 
pay in contributions as that was a matter for the accountants; and the ability to carry forward 
unused allowances had been mentioned in earlier correspondence, so Mrs S had been 
made aware of this.
Mrs S disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. She said it wasnt the amount to 
invest that was disputed, but her right to have the option to invest or not. And she said she 
had been told by another adviser that she had missed out on investment growth.
The investigator didnt change his opinion. He said the advice that had been sought was how 
much Mrs S could afford to invest in her pension, and that was something for an accountant 
to advise on, as was prompting the discussion about using the carry forward facility. 
Before proceeding with a decision, I asked Mrs S for some further information about what 
she would have done, if shed been prompted to speak to the accountant at the time. In 
reply, she said
its not clear why she wasnt told about carry forward or what she should have said to 
Williams & Watt to prompt this;
she would have preferred to have full advice on her pensions;
she lost the chance to put more into pensions and the additional investment growth 
this would have led to;
the funds were left in Ks bank account  she didnt take further dividends as that 
would have required knowledge of how much tax liability she might have been 
exposed to, and being exposed to more tax would not have been beneficial.
Mrs S also provided some further information from her accountant, which included details of 
Ks profits and balance sheet for 2018 and 2019. The accountant said the indications are that K could have made bigger contributions in those years if they wished to; and the general 
rule is to make the maximum contribution in the current year, using up any carry forward 
available (starting with the oldest year first as that will be lost next year if not used).
Williams & Watt also provided some further comments, including:
in 2019 Mrs S wasnt paying her maximum contributions;
she and Mr S had always been reluctant to pay in too much as they wouldnt then be 
able to access those funds if needed for the business;
it was only after it advised Mrs S to pay in the maximum that she did so  after asking 
to defer until after Christmas as they needed to check Ks cashflow;
it stopped mentioning carry forward as it wasnt relevant  this only became relevant 
in 2020 as Mr and Mrs S were selling the business and didnt need to have large 
amounts of cash in it;
it would have been better if they had mentioned selling K earlier.
After considering these further points I issued a provisional decision saying I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. I considered there had been a failing by Williams & Watt and although 
wasnt satisfied this had caused a financial loss I proposed to direct Williams & Watt to pay 
compensation of £500 to Mrs S for the distress caused to her. I set out my reasons as 
follows:
Williams & Watt has accepted that some errors were made and that its adviser had 
potentially missed the opportunity to maximise the employers contributions into Mrs S 
pension. But it said the accountants role was also important, as the accountant should also 
have made her aware of the position, and would have been the right person to advise on 
affordability and on the tax implications of increased contributions. 
Our investigator also thought responsibility for what happened lay more with the accountant 
than with Williams & Watt. Mrs S disagrees  she says she relied on Williams & Watts 
expertise in pensions to advise fully, and it could have liaised with the accountant if it needed 
to in order to advise. 
So the question for me to decide is whether Williams & Watt is responsible for what 
happened and  if so  whether Mrs S has suffered a loss as a result.
When advising Mrs S, Id expect Williams & Watt to comply with its duties which include, 
amongst other things, to exercise due skill, care and diligence, and to pay regard to its 
customers interests and treat them fairly. Williams & Watt also had to take reasonable care 
to ensure the suitability of its advice.
Taken in isolation, the advice given to Mrs S might be considered suitable. She wanted to  
make the maximum contribution to her pension and Williams & Watt gave her the 
information about the maximum allowance for that tax year. But I dont think the advice 
addressed the issue fully.
Williams & Watt knew Mrs S hadnt been paying the maximum in previous years, so she had 
unused allowances that she could make use of. That meant £40,000 (the annual allowance) 
wasnt in fact the most she could pay in that year  the contributions could be more than 
that. 
So if Mrs S was asking what was the most she could pay in, the appropriate advice to give 
was to explain that she could pay in more.
I note also that in earlier years, the advice had referred to carrying forward unused 
allowances but in the later years that wasnt mentioned. Williams & Watt says it stopped mentioning this as it wasnt relevant, and only became relevant again in 2020 when Mrs S 
asked about it, due to the fact she and Mr S intended to selling the business and didnt need 
to have large amounts of cash in it. But if Mrs S was specifically asking what was the most 
she could pay, then any unused allowance was relevant as that increased the amount of 
contributions that could be paid.
I appreciate it would have been for the accountants to advise on how much K could afford to 
pay in  and on whether any payments would qualify for corporation tax relief under the 
relevant HMRC tests. But the appropriate advice would have been to explain the allowances 
to Mrs S and prompt her to take advice on this from the accountant before making a 
decision.
Looking at Mrs S circumstances at the time, the advice wasnt suitable if it didnt address the 
unused allowances. I appreciate that further advice would have been needed from the 
accountant. But what should have happened was for Williams & Watt to raise this, and 
prompt Mrs S to speak to the accountant.
So my view is that Williams & Watt was at fault. But I then need to consider the 
consequences of that, and what would have happened if the error had not happened. 
Mrs S has said its not the amount to invest that is disputed, but her right to have the option 
whether to invest or not. I think thats right  she should have had the opportunity to seek 
further advice and decide whether to pay more into the pension, but she lost the opportunity 
to do that.
From the further information provided, its not clear what would have happened, if she had 
been able to take further advice. The accountant has said K did have funds available in its 
account and could potentially have paid more. But the comments are in general terms. They 
dont persuade me that higher contributions would have been paid. There were other factors 
involved, such as the tax implications. And I note, for example, that in 2020 Mrs S delayed 
arranging the further payments into her pension, wanting to check Ks cashflow first. When 
deciding what contributions to pay, they would have had to consider that K had future cash- 
flows and tax bills to think about. Whats affordable is not as simple as how much cash is 
available in the companys accounts. All of these things would have needed to be discussed 
with the accountant and I dont know what the outcome would have been.
So although I can say Mrs S lost the opportunity to have further advice, I dont think its 
possible to say what would have happened or whether she has suffered a loss.
There has been a loss of opportunity. And it would have been very upsetting to find that she 
might have been able to pay more into her pension. So Williams & Watt should pay some 
compensation in respect of that. Taking into account the degree of upset caused, I think a 
payment of £500 would be fair.
I appreciate this may seem a modest amount in relation to Mrs S pension. But its not 
intended to compensate for any financial loss, simply the upset caused to Mrs S on finding 
out what had happened.
Replies to the provisional decision 
Mrs S has replied saying she is satisfied that the complaint has been upheld, though the 
compensation for £500 doesnt cover the loss of investment growth caused by not being 
given the advice to use carry forward which she would have, as funds were available.Williams & Watt doesnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. It says although there 
were some errors, it wasnt ultimately responsible as the accountant should have advised on 
how much K could afford in contributions and comment on the ability to carry forward unused 
allowances.
Williams & Watt has also advised that the goodwill offer of a payment to K is no longer open. 
But it has confirmed that the fees are waived and it will not ask for the fees to be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the comments from Mrs S and Williams & Watt, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision. Although Williams & Watt doesnt think the complaint should 
be upheld, Im satisfied there was a failing  as indeed Williams & Watt has accepted. 
Whilst it was for the accountant to advise K on what payments might be made, Williams & 
Watt should have referred to the unused allowances and explained that more could 
potentially be paid into Mrs S pension (after discussing that with the accountant).
But Mrs S hasnt been able to confirm what payments might have been made. As I explained 
in the provisional decision, although she lost the opportunity to consider further contributions, 
Im not able to say what would have happened if further advice had been given. So the most 
I can say is that she lost the opportunity to consider this, and that would have been upsetting 
for her. 
The compensation is not intended to make up for the loss of investment growth as its not 
possible to say what loss, if any, there was; its an acknowledgement of the upset caused. 
Ive reviewed this but remain of the view that £500 is a fair amount. 
In coming to my view on what would be a fair amount of compensation, Ive taken into 
account the fact that Williams & Watt has confirmed its fees relating to this have been 
waived and it will not seek payment.
It will also be upsetting for Mrs S to note that Williams & Watt is no longer offering a goodwill 
payment. That offer was made to K. I have explained separately to Mrs S why we cant 
consider a complaint on behalf of K, since that company is not an eligible customer under 
the rules that govern our service. 
So while I know this will be upsetting for Mrs S, I cant comment on that offer or make any 
direction in favour of K. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Williams & Watt Financial Planning Limited to pay 
compensation to Mrs S of £500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman