DRN-4151973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled their motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs H bought a car on 12 July 2022 for £8,495 using finance. They insured the car 
with Admiral in Mrs Hs name with Mr H as a named driver.
On 26 September 2022, their car was stolen from outside their home in the early hours of 
the morning although. They didnt realise the car had been stolen until they went to use the 
car at around 9am. Someone standing next to the car and the car being driven away was 
captured on their security cameras around 2am. The matter was reported to the police. 
Mr and Mrs H explained both keys for the car were kept in signal blocking pouches although 
one set of keys had no battery and hadnt worked from the outset. After Mr and Mrs H sent 
Admiral the two keys they had for the car, it had them analysed. In summary, the report said 
the following:
Key 1  This key was for a different vehicle and was last used for that vehicle on 25 
July 2022.
Key 2  This key was for Mr and Mrs Hs car and was last used in August 2018 when 
the data recorded from the car was approximately 30,000 miles less than when they 
bought it. The data also showed the remote wasnt transmitting the signal needed to 
operate the remote-control functions on the key.
As a result of this information, Admiral declined the claim for the theft of Mr and Mrs Hs car 
in line with their terms and conditions, specifically general conditions 3 and 9. It believed Mr 
and Mrs H had made a deliberate attempt to mislead Admiral over the circumstances 
surrounding the incident. Because of this, Admiral cancelled the policy immediately, as its 
terms permitted it to do for a breach of general condition 9.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and said the declined claim has had a significant impact on them 
and their family. They complained but Admiral didnt change its mind, so they brought their 
complaint to this service. They explained the following in relation to the keys.
Key 1  This was last used by them on 25 September 2022, the evening before the 
car was stolen. Theyve always used this key as its the key that has always worked 
for their car. 
Key 2  The key didn't work on the central locking and so they didnt use it but had 
started the car with it when they first bought the car.
An Investigator reviewed matters and thought Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim and cancelling the policy. She agreed the spare key  Key 2  didnt work 
having seen emails to the dealership where they bought the car to support this. The 
Investigator noted Mr and Mrs H said they used the spare key when they first purchased the 
car, but only to drive a short distance as it wouldnt activate the central locking system. She 
explained this wouldnt have triggered the key to register any data as the journey has to 
meet certain requirements (time driving and minimum speed) which would explain why the 
latest data was from 2018.
In relation to Key 1, the Investigator considered what had been said about fobs being 
reprogramed to a different vehicle, but she didnt consider this had happened here. This is 
because Key 1 last recorded data on 25 July  after theyd bought the car and a day before 
the vehicle which Key 1 was registered to was stolen. She concluded this suggests Key 1 
would never have worked to operate Mr and Mrs Hs car, as the key was programmed to the 
engine control unit for a different vehicle.
The matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must explain to Mr and Mrs H I consider the Investigator reached a fair 
outcome in this matter and I agree with the reasons set out for their outcome. So, I wont be 
asking Admiral to do anything more to put things right. Ill explain why.
The starting point of any claim made under an insurance policy is the contract between the 
customer and the insurer - the policy document. 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy entitles it to decline a claim and cancel a policy where its satisfied 
there has been a breach of general conditions 3 and 9. The policy entitles it to cancel the 
policy immediately for a breach of condition 9. 
General Conditions 3 and 9 are set out below:
General Condition 3: Care of your vehicle
You and any other insured person must:
-protect your vehicle from loss or damage
-
-remove and secure any keys or device that allows access to your vehicle; if it is 
left unoccupied.
-Failure to comply with the above could affect the amount you are able to claim, result 
in the claim being refused and/or your policy being cancelled.
If an incident happens, which is directly or indirectly caused or contributed to by any 
of the following:
-
-your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured.
No cover under the policy will be given and instead our responsibility will be restricted 
to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law.
General Condition 9: Fraud and misrepresentation
 
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate 
information.
If you, any other insured person or anyone acting on your behalf:
-provides us with false, exaggerated or misrepresented information
-submits false, altered, forged or stolen documents.
We will take one or more of the following actions:
-amend your policy to show the correct information and apply any change in 
premium
-cancel your policy, under certain circumstances this may be with immediate effect
-declare your policy void
-refuse to pay your claim or only pay part of your claim
-only pay a proportion of your claim
-keep the premium you have paid
-recover any costs incurred from you or any other insured person.
If we identify any fraud or misrepresentation, we will cancel or void any other EUI 
policies you are connected with.
Admiral had fair and valid concerns about how the car was stolen when both keys were 
retained in signal blocking pouches. So, it was reasonable for it to request a report into the 
data contained on those keys 
Admiral have relied on this report to determine there has been a breach of the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Im satisfied it was fairly and reasonably able to do so. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its not possible to say Key 1 - the key Mr and Mrs H said 
they used as the main car key since buying the car - had been used to drive it. Im 
persuaded it wouldnt have been possible to do so as it was programmed for a different 
vehicle and had been used in that  now stolen vehicle  after Mr and Mrs H had bought 
their car.
As a result of Admiral being satisfied Mr and Mrs H had breached general condition 9, it was 
reasonably able to cancel their motor insurance policy with immediate effect. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont consider itd be appropriate for me to interfere with 
Admirals decision to refuse Mr and Mrs Hs claim and cancel their policy, or to require it to 
take any other action.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman