DRN-1772562
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of his mother, Mrs M, about the increases in premiums on Mrs Ms 
home buildings and contents insurance with U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
Home Insurance.
What happened
Mrs Ms insurance policy with U K Insurance started in 2010. It was taken out online and 
initially cost £322 for the year, which included an introductory discount. The next year, 2011, 
Mrs Ms insurance cost £398. 
During the 2012 policy year, U K Insurance was informed that Mrs Ms husband had passed 
away. And Mrs M gave permission for Mrs C to act on her behalf in relation to the policy. U K 
Insurance says this suggests that Mrs M was able to get assistance from Mrs C with dealing 
with her policy if she needed it.
In 2019, the renewal quote was for £804. At this time, Mr M became aware of the cost and 
Mrs M gave him permission to complain on her behalf about the high price. Mr M was able to 
make some changes to the policy and was offered a reduced price. But the policy was 
cancelled mid-term. Mr M has asked that U K Insurance refund at least eight years worth of 
premiums. 
U K Insurance responded to the complaint to make an offer of £800 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator thought this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. But Mrs M didnt agree, 
so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether U K Insurance has treated Mrs M 
fairly throughout the period she held its insurance policy.
If I find that U K Insurance hasnt treated Mrs M fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what U K Insurance has offered is fair.
There was an introductory discount in the first year. This isnt uncommon and policies are 
often initially priced lower to attract new customers. I dont think its unfair for an insurer to 
seek to recoup that cost over the subsequent years, as happened here.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. Insurers will typically, over 
the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined models. If an 
insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will increase accordingly  
theres nothing wrong with this.
However, Mrs Ms policy started in 2010 and automatically renewed each year. She didnt 
engage with the cost of the policy until Mr M complained on her behalf. Because of that, I 
think U K Insurance shouldve been aware of her lack of engagement by 2015 at the latest. 
So, Id expect U K Insurance to be able to justify any increases beyond that point, by 
showing us that those increases were due to reasons related to its assessment of the risk, 
and factors beyond its control such as increases in insurance premium tax (IPT). U K 
Insurance has not done this. But it has offered to pay Mrs M £800 in settlement of this 
complaint. 
Having thought carefully about the offer U K Insurance has made, I think it is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint. This is because it is in line with what I would have 
directed U K Insurance to pay Mrs M if it had not made an offer of settlement. The offer 
effectively compensates Mrs M for any increases to the premium after 2015, plus interest for 
the time she was without the money, plus some additional compensation in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
It appears that Mrs M was able to get insurance in 2019 for much less than she had been 
paying. So, I can understand why she and Mr M think that means she was overcharged over 
the whole time she had the policy. But insurers often include discounts in order to obtain new 
customers. That means that a new customer will often be paying less than the true cost of 
providing the insurance policy. And the price you can obtain insurance for depends on the 
competitiveness of the market at that moment, and each individual insurers appetite for new 
business. So, I dont think it follows that this means Mrs M was overcharged or treated 
unfairly throughout the time she held her policy with U K Insurance.
As well as this, insurance policies are not all the same. They have different levels of cover, 
excesses and terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. And each insurers 
costs may vary depending on many things. So, just because Mrs M was able to get 
insurance in 2019 for much less than she had been paying  that doesnt mean the amount 
U K Insurance charged was unfair.
I dont think the amount charged was unfair throughout the whole period Mrs M was insured 
with U K Insurance. And I dont think that Mr Ms suggestion that she have eight years worth 
of premiums refunded would be fair or reasonable. That would effectively mean she had free 
insurance for eight years. 
However, U K Insurance has made an offer of £800 compensation. Having carefully 
considered this matter, I think that offer is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, U K Insurance should pay Mrs M £800 in settlement of this 
complaint. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. U K Insurance should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman