DRN-1651925
 
The complaint
 Mr K is unhappy about the maturity value of his with-profits endowment plan, managed by 
Prudential Assurance Company Ltd. 
He says its over £900 below what he expected and therefore Prudential should pay the 
difference.  He didnt think itd be affected by short-term market fluctuations. 
 
What happened
In April 1980, Mr K took out the plan with a £3,900 guaranteed sum assured. He paid £4,563 
in premiums  £117 a year over 39 years. 
The £24,300 policy maturity value was made up of the £3,900 sum assured, £8,012 annual 
bonus, and a £12,388 terminal bonus. 
But Mr K is unhappy that the maturity value dropped from £25,226 to £24,300 in a relatively 
short period between 20 March and 1 May 2019.  
Prudential hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
 
Its sorry the plan failed to meet Mr Ks expectation, but the reason why the value of 
his investment decreased was due to a reduction in the terminal bonus figure. 
Bonuses are a way it allocates the investors share of the fund. It pays regular 
bonuses annually and a final bonus referred to as terminal bonus. 
Terminal bonuses while quoted, are not guaranteed, and can change at any time, 
and are only actually applied on the date the funds are taken from the policy. 
A drop in the investment markets has affected the whole industry, not just Prudential. 
And 2018 was a difficult year for financial markets, in which it made a net loss of 
2.2%. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
 
The way a provider chooses to manage its investments (and review bonuses) is a 
matter for its own commercial judgement. Its not something our service can get 
involved in. He cant comment on whether it wouldve been fair for Prudential to account for poor 
market performance by adjusting interim bonuses for all policy holders, as opposed 
to terminal bonuses, which affected Mr K. 
Activities of this nature are subject to oversight by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), so if Mr K is worried about Prudentials approach hes free to raise an issue 
with the FCA.  
Because Prudential paid the guaranteed amount, it kept to its commitment, and hes 
unable to say it misled Mr K.   
He cant comment on the performance of other businesses that have supposedly 
done better with similar investments. 
He appreciates that Mr K is disappointed about the terminal bonus. But having 
listened to the call of 20 March 2019 he could see the agent was clear that the sum 
of £25,226.53 wasnt final, and could change on a daily basis. Therefore he cant say 
that Mr K was misled. 
 
Mr K remains disappointed with the investigators view, but having initially accepted it, has 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Hes provided details of documents that he says he didnt have at the outset, but would now 
like to be considered by an ombudsman. In summary, he made the following key points:
 
Prudential is denying his claim so that it wont have to pay hundreds of other claims 
similar to his.
Just because a business says it cant guarantee returns, doesnt mean that our 
service shouldnt be involved. 
Prudential would rather be fined for non-compliance of rules, than uphold a 
complaint, and then have to pay out millions in compensation. 
He hasnt been notified of the bonuses added but has recently been furnished with 
this information, including the workings of the with profits plan.
The investigator said there was a 2% loss in Prudential funds in 2018, justifying a 
lower bonus rate, before smoothing. But his investment was invested in an 
independent sub fund  Scottish Amicable Investment Fund (SAIF), which 
experienced a 2.8% loss.  
The Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund Chairmans statement said: 
othe funds remain in a strong financial condition and 
oover the forthcoming bonus year, the majority of bonuses will see similar or 
slightly higher bonus rates compared to last year, and 
oWith-profits policies will typically see changes in policy value ranging from 
small reduction of 0.5% to an increase of up to 1.5%.
His overall policy value was reduced by 3.7% as a consequence of a fall in terminal 
bonus of 8%. This isnt smoothing as he understands it, and hes unhappy he wasnt 
given an opportunity to reconsider his options. 
Its wrong for the business to penalize a single cohort of plans, which amounts to a 
surcharge rather than a moderated reduction in the gain. 
Hes unhappy that our service cant challenge a company to justify the actuarial 
considerations that cause it to abandon its own principles and practice, set aside the 
expectations of the fund chairman, and betray its customers by pillaging their returns. 
He feels let down by our service.   
 The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr K says, Im unable to say that 
Prudential has behaved unreasonably by awarding a terminal bonus that was lower than 
what Mr K expected, given that he was made no guarantees.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr K has about this matter. 
He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and Prudential, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than 
take any sides.  
I appreciate Mr K feels frustrated about the points that we can and cant consider. But its not 
my role to regulate or punish Prudential for any alleged breaches, thats the role of the 
industry regulator, the FCA. My role is to consider whether or not Prudential has done 
anything wrong. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Im aware Mr K has questions about the technical calculations, but Im not required to 
answer these, and my inability to answer particular questions doesnt prevent me from 
reaching a decision in this case either. 
I understand that Mr K is unhappy about the maturity value hes recently received from his 
plan, under a Scottish Amicable legacy policy, managed by Prudential. Hes particularly 
unhappy that the surrender value is around £900 lower than what he was told just a few weeks before. Mr K feels that he wasnt given an indication of the likely value to help him 
decide whether or not to cash in the plan or extend it.  
I understand that the surrender value has always been subject to change, and that 
Prudential provided a value which it felt fairly represented Mr Ks share of the fund for the 
time the plan has been in place. 
I dont think prior to this there was any reliable way of knowing what that final figure might 
be, because its subject to change, dependent on the terminal bonus. And other than the 
guaranteed sum assured I dont think Prudential couldve given Mr K any kind of guarantees 
as to the final value. 
So the decision about whether (or not) to extend the plan or cash-in was solely Mr Ks, 
based on the information he was given. Im unable to say the Prudential is now to blame for 
his decision to cash his plan. I note Mr K says he was given the usual caveats, but the point 
is he wasnt given a guaranteed final figure, and quite rightly so given that terminal bonuses 
are only attached on the date the funds are taken from the plan.
I appreciate the points made by Mr K about why he disagrees with Prudentials calculations, 
but Im conscious that if the smoothing process leaves a surplus in the fund, the policy can 
receive a terminal bonus (although its not guaranteed)  as a distribution of that surplus  
and thats what has happened here resulting in Mr K receiving a terminal bonus, albeit a 
figure that hes unhappy with.   
This way, despite what Mr K says, I think its likely that he received the value of the gains 
accrued by the fund whilst the plan was in force. However, I note both the annual and 
terminal bonuses are at Prudentials commercial discretion, and its not something this 
service can interfere with. In other words, Prudential is entitled to decide  based upon 
recommendations from its actuaries  how much annual and terminal bonus it applies. 
And notwithstanding the above, it doesnt mean from what I can see that Prudential has 
deliberately tried to cheat Mr K out of his gains, or that it has deliberately targeted him 
unfairly because he was cashing in the plan. 
It was made clear to Mr K  six weeks before he surrendered that plan  that the end value 
will depend on market forces, so the value given at the time wasnt guaranteed. 
Anyhow, I appreciate the points made by Mr K and his frustration about what we can and 
cant consider, but any question of how the funds are managed and operated is a question 
for the industry regulator, the FCA, which  unlike our service  supervises the management 
of funds and any question over whether Prudential has properly managed the with-profits 
fund is an issue for it to consider in its regulatory capacity.
Our service doesnt have a regulatory role. And so when we receive a complaint involving 
concerns about whether a fund has been managed appropriately, it means were not 
generally in a position to carry out an investigation.
We can make the FCA aware of potential issues that are brought to us, but we dont 
represent individual customers before the FCA. If it was the case that the FCA had concerns 
about the fund and its management, it has the powers to investigate and take any action it 
considers appropriate. In the event the FCA did identify issues and take action, its unlikely it 
would contact individual(s) directly. Instead, it would be more likely to instruct the business to 
take action and contact policyholders itself.If Mr K wishes, he could also contact the FCA himself with details of his concerns. But 
as Ive said above, its unlikely hell receive a response setting out any action it may decide 
to take.
I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require Prudential to do anything.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman