DRN-3873619
The complaint
Mr C complains Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. trading as 
Telefonica Insurance UK Branch (Telefonica) declined his claim under his mobile phone 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr C says he was riding his bike home when he realised his mobile phone had fallen out of 
his pocket. 
Mr C could see the phone on the Find my phone app and so he tried to locate it. He says it 
was moving around the city but he was unable to find it. Mr C says he then called the police 
and reported the phone missing to his insurer. 
Over the next few days Telefonica contacted Mr C to validate the claim. During the course of 
the call Mr C explained the circumstances of the loss of the phone and confirmed the SIM 
card from his network provider was in the phone at the time it was lost. 
Telefonica declined the claim. It said it had evidence the SIM card was put into Mr Cs 
previous phone after he says it was lost. And because Mr C wasnt able to provide an 
explanation for this the claim was declined. 
Mr C wasnt happy. He said the phone had been lost and he doesnt know why it shows the 
SIM was put into his old phone; he says this isnt possible. In the absence of any evidence to 
explain this Telefonica didnt change its decision. 
And so Mr C complained to Telefonica. Telefonica said the information provided by Mr C 
when it was assessing the claim regarding the usage of the handset didnt match or correlate 
with the information it had. It said due to this it had been unable to fairly assess the claim 
under the terms and conditions of the policy and so the claim was declined. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied. He referred his complaint to this service and our investigator 
looked into things for him. She said she wasnt upholding the complaint. She said Telefonica 
had provided evidence which showed Mr Cs SIM card had been used in his previous phone 
after the date of the claim. And since Mr C hadnt provided an explanation as to how this 
could have happened she said Telefonica were within its rights to decline the claim. 
Mr C didnt agree. He sent in some further information regarding the previous phone 
together with his statement about what happened on the day his phone was lost. The 
investigator put this to the business but it didnt change its mind. And so the complaint has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a basic principle of insurance that it is for the claimant to establish their claim. This 
means Mr C has to provide sufficient information and evidence to prove, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the phone insured under the policy was lost as claimed. 
Mr C reported the phone as lost and confirmed his network provider SIM was in the phone 
when it was lost. In a subsequent investigation it transpired that the SIM card had been used 
in Mr Cs previous phone a few days after the date of loss. 
I have listened to the recordings of the calls between Mr C and Telefonica. I am satisfied that 
Telefonica made reasonable and relevant enquiries and that Mr C didnt provide an 
adequate explanation for the SIM card being in his previous phone two days after the date of 
the claim, which means it has not acted unreasonably in declining the claim. I will explain 
why I have come to that conclusion. 
I can see from the system notes that during the interview with Mr C he told Telefonica that 
the SIM card had been inside the device when it was lost. But Telefonica had evidence from 
Mr Cs network provider to show the SIM went into another phone owned by Mr C after he 
reported it lost. Mr C didnt provide Telefonica with an explanation for how this could have 
happened. And as a result of the inconsistencies the claim was declined. 
I know Mr C has told us he had two SIM cards in his previous phone on 30 September 2022; 
one was with a different network provider and the other was an international SIM card. And 
so he is inferring that the missing SIM couldnt have been in the phone. And whilst that may 
be the case unfortunately this isnt conclusive evidence. 
Mr C has provided a statement of what happened on the day the phone was lost. Together 
with an invoice for his previous phone which details the IMEI number. Unfortunately these 
dont explain how the SIM came to be in Mr Cs previous phone after the date of claim. 
The IMEI number is a unique serial number. So I checked the IMEI number of the phone that 
Mr C purchased and the phone the SIM was used in.  And it matches that in the information 
provided by the network provider. So Im satisfied the SIM was used in Mr Cs previous 
phone after the date of loss. 
Mr C has said its not possible for his SIM card to have been put into his old phone after the 
date of the claim. Telefonica have told Mr C if he disputes the information provided by his 
network provider then he needs to take that up with them. But I havent seen any evidence 
that hes done this. And I do think this is the correct course of action for Mr C at this stage. 
I know Mr C believes Telefonica thinks he is lying about the claim. I havent seen evidence 
this is the case. The insurer is entitled to conduct an investigation into the circumstances of 
the case and if it doesnt receive satisfactory evidence proving the claim, as is the case here, 
it is entitled to decline it.
Telefonica asked Mr C clear questions and Im satisfied from listening to those calls that he 
understood what he was being asked. Given this Im not persuaded that I can fairly ask 
Telefonica to meet the claim. I also consider it dealt with the investigation in reasonable time 
and was entitled to make the enquiries it did. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C who has clearly been through a 
difficult time. But in order for me to compel Telefonica to pay the claim I need to be able to 
say it did something wrong or unreasonable and I cant say that here on the evidence. My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman