DRN-2160256
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in May 2009 by 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Mr S says he did not consent to having the AGA and didnt know hed been given it and was 
paying for it.
NatWest says he agreed to take out the AGA in a branch in a non-advised sale.
Mr S paid a substantial monthly fee for the AGA which wouldve appeared each month on 
his statement. He also wouldve received a welcome pack followed by regular 
correspondence with the AGA branding. 
So, although I dont doubt Mr Ss honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that he 
wouldve noticed the account type had changed and that he was paying a monthly fee. If he 
was unhappy with this, he couldve closed the account at any time but didnt and kept it for 
10 years.
So, I think its more likely than not that he did consent to the AGA and chose to take it out.
This service is aware that NatWests sales of the AGA in 2009 were on an information only 
basis, that is, they did not involve advice and recommendation. Ive not seen any evidence 
that this sale was any different, so I think its more likely than not the sale was non advised.
This means that NatWest was not required to check the AGA was suitable for Mr S. It was 
only required to provide Mr S with enough information for him to make an informed choice.
As NatWest was trying to sell the AGA to Mr S, I think its likely it provided substantial 
information about the costs and benefits. I can see that he has benefitted from the better 
interest rates on his overdraft on the AGA. And he wouldve had the insurance cover over 
the years on any holidays or car trips, whether he had a need to claim or not.
So, I can see why he may have been interested in the AGA, and I dont think there was any 
information about the AGA that NatWest didnt give him that would have put Mr S off buying 
the AGA.
So, I think its more likely than not that NatWest didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman