DRN-3596414
The complaint
Mr M complains about Equifax Limiteds customer service when raising a query with them 
over a disputed entry on his credit file. Hes also unhappy about having to complete a two-
step authentication process every time he logs on to their online help account.
What happened
From the information Ive been provided with, I understand Mr Ms concerns are:
When raising a dispute over information a phone company, who Ill refer to as X, had 
recorded on his credit file Mr M received very poor customer service from Equifax. 
He said he was told hed be notified when the issue had been looked into but wasnt 
and had to do all the chasing. He also wasnt happy the disputes were marked as 
closed when they hadnt been resolved.
Every time Mr M logs into the online help account, whether on his phone or his 
computer, hes required to verify his account. This is done through having to check 
his emails, and then go back to the online help account  which takes him a lot of 
extra time and effort.
In response, Equifax said:
They could see Mr M had raised multiple disputes about X. When an update is 
received from X an email is usually sent to Mr M to confirm this  but the notifications 
were disabled in error by one of their agents. They explained the query is properly 
closed when X replied, as they own the data. They said sorry and offered £25 for 
this. I understand Mr M subsequently accepted this payment.
They werent aware of any known issues affecting Mr Ms log in. They provided some 
information about browsers they support, suggested Mr M clear the cache, and gave 
a helpline number if Mr M needed it. In a later reply, Equifax made it clear the two-
step process was something they introduced in April 2021, and not an error.
Unhappy with this, Mr M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
thought Equifax had put matters right, so didnt ask them to do anymore. Mr M said he didnt 
agree with this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dispute with X
The internal notes Ive seen from Equifax show Mr M disputed Xs update in October 2021, 
and that he wanted to know why his credit file wasnt updated in August or September 2021. 
Mr M had a loan with X.
The dispute was raised three times with X by Equifax, and each time the reply from X was 
no changes can be made as the account is still active on our billing system. 
Clearly, that doesnt answer the question Mr M actually asked, but I cant hold Equifax 
responsible for that. They raised the query three times, and three times that was the answer 
from X. 
I should explain Equifax cant amend any information on a credit file unless the owner of that 
data requests it. So, if personal information is wrong for Mr M they may have been able to 
make a change  but where information is provided by another party, such as X in this 
complaint, then Equifax need them to authorise any change in the data. Equifax dont own 
the data, X do  so Equifaxs hands were in effect tied because X werent saying why August 
and Septembers update hadnt happened.
I have seen a letter from X which talks about them sending the data regularly  and that the 
Credit Reference Agencys (CRAs  which includes Equifax) can take up to 60 days to load 
the data through an automated process. 
Taking everything into account, I dont have enough information to say conclusively why the 
data wasnt updated. But the only entity Im looking at here is Equifax  and when Mr M 
raised a query regarding this, they contacted X as Id expect. Ive not seen any clear 
information to show they are definitely at fault for the update not happening as it should have 
done. So, I cant say they did much wrong on the dispute itself.
But I think Mr Ms concern here is also about why he wasnt told about the replies that came 
in as well as why his disputes were closed when he says they shouldnt have been. 
For the issue about him not being communicated with, Equifax have accepted they made an 
error as one of their agents disabled notifications that would have told Mr M a reply had 
come in from X. 
The key factor for me to think about is the impact this had on Mr M. The notes Ive seen 
show Mr M raised the query on 6 October, and it seems he knew X had replied either on 
18 October or at the latest two days later. I say that because there was a reply to Mr M from 
Equifax on 18 October, and he complained about not being told about this reply on 
20 October. This was the first answer of three disputes Mr M raised, but the answer each 
time from X was the same. 
So, although I agree its disappointing Equifax made an error and Mr M wasnt automatically 
notified each time, I do think Equifax saying sorry, and paying £25, is enough.
As for closing the dispute, Equifax have explained when replies were received from X, thats 
effectively it in the sense they cant do anything more. So, had things worked as they should 
have, theyd have told Mr M this, while closing it down. If Mr M then didnt agree, the dispute 
would be reopened or a new one recorded. Although I can understand Mr Ms frustration that 
the dispute wasnt resolved from his perspective, Equifaxs answer makes sense, so I wont 
be asking them to do anything further on this point.
Logging on process
I should start by explaining our service cant tell businesses such as Equifax what processes 
they should have in place  or insist they change them. Instead, all I can consider is whether 
Equifax have made an error in following their processes, and whether thats had an impact 
on Mr M.
Here though, Equifax have explained they changed their processes in April 2021 to require a 
two-step authentication to log in to the online help centre.I appreciate Mr M doesnt like this and thinks they should have communicated this to all their 
customers. But, ultimately, its for Equifax to decide what security procedures they want to 
have in place. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr M cant complete what hes being asked, 
more than its an inconvenience. But, as thats Equifaxs process, I cant reasonably say 
theyve treated him unfairly  as this is the process for all customers now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman