DRN-3435806
The complaint
Ms K complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investments charged her a fee even after she sold all the investments she held with it. 
What happened
Ms K held an investment account with Lloyds. In it she had holdings worth around £2,000. 
Lloyds charged Ms K an annual 0.24% of the value of the investments she held in that 
account  with a minimum charge of £2.40. Lloyds calculated the fee on a monthly basis, 
and collected the total amount annually. 
Ms K sold her investments some time after June 2020 and she thought she had paid all 
outstanding fees. But on 26 October 2020 she received a letter from Lloyds explaining that 
she owed £3.69. It provided a breakdown of how this fee was calculated, which showed that 
£3.69 was the total she had been charged from October 2019 until June 2020. There were 
no further charges after this point. 
Ms K complained about this as she thought she had paid all of the fees at the point shed 
sold her investments and withdrew the cash  she thought this was an error by Lloyds and 
she didnt owe it anything. As Lloyds didnt issue a final response within 8 weeks of her 
complaint, she referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint. She found that Lloyds had not been forthcoming with any information in response 
to her requests. However, in looking at the evidence that was available, she thought it was 
clear that the fee which Ms K had been notified of in October 2020 had been fairly incurred. 
She explained that the letter showed that the fee had only been applied for those months 
when Ms K held investments with Lloyds, and not been applied after June which is when the 
investments were sold. She said that as this a fee that was collected annually, it wasnt 
unusual for Ms K to have been written to a few months after she had sold everything. So the 
investigator concluded that this was a fee that Ms K needed to pay. 
Ms K didnt agree. She said shed now received a further letter from Lloyds this time 
highlighting an additional £12.59 charge. She said she wanted a letter from Lloyds 
explaining that her account was closed and confirming that she did not owe it any money. 
She said that Lloyds had been ignoring her messages and not replying to her requests. And 
she thought it was unfair that the investigator had found in Lloydss favour without them 
having officially replied to her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms K, but I have very little to add to what the investigator has already 
said. I should start by confirming that Ive not looked into the most recent letter Ms K 
received which appears to notify her of a charge of £12.59, except to confirm that the letter 
does tell her that she need not take any further action and that this charge had already been 
paid or accounted for. 
I should also explain that this services role isnt to act as a conduit between her and Lloyds 
 it is to look at a complaint about the service Lloyds has provided to her and conclude 
whether it has done anything wrong. So in terms of Ms Ks desire for a letter from Lloyds 
confirming her account is closed, this is something she will need to take up with Lloyds 
directly. 
The only issue Im considering in this decision is whether the fee of £3.69 was fairly applied 
to Ms Ks account. And in considering this issue, Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. 
I understand Ms Ks point about the fairness of the investigator concluding that her complaint 
shouldnt be upheld when Lloyds hasnt replied or provided its version of events. 
Unfortunately a number of businesses are currently dealing with large administrative delays 
on a number of service related issues, including complaints  and Halifax Share Dealing is 
one of those firms. As it is responsible for complaints about Lloyds Bank Direct Investments, 
this has meant that our investigation of Ms Ks complaint has been delayed. But this service 
offers wherever possible a quick and informal dispute resolution service. We do not operate 
like a court of law  so for example, we do not make summary judgments or judgments in 
default. Usually, a business file from a respondent firm is required in order to decide what is 
fair and reasonable. But there are some cases where the undisputed facts, as well as the 
evidence provided by the consumer, are sufficient for an ombudsman to be able to come to 
a fair and reasonable conclusion. In my view Ms Ks complaint falls in that category. 
The letter Ms K received on 26 October 2020 and which she provided to this service is clear 
about the fee and the period during which it was charged. Whilst I understand Ms K thought 
she had cleared all fees at the time she withdrew all her funds, in my experience this is not 
how these annual service fees are charged. Instead, the letter Ms K received is a yearly 
letter which set outs the total amount charged for the year, and explains how much per 
month the fee amounted to. In this case, I can see that the yearly period ran from October 
2019 to October 2020  but Ms Ks account was only charged the fee until June 2020, as 
after that she had withdrawn all her holdings. This means that the charge was correctly 
applied for the period during which Lloyds was providing a service to her (holding her assets 
on its platform), and ceased being charged when that service was no longer being provided. 
For clarity, Id also like to add that in my experience selling investments during the year 
doesnt mean that this type of fee isnt payable at all  it simply means the fee is only 
payable for those months of the year when the investments were being held. This is what 
happened in Ms Ks case and that is how it was calculated.  
As a result, whilst it wouldve been helpful to have a detailed explanation from Lloyds about 
this issue, its clear to me that no mistake has been made  and if she hasnt already paid it, 
Id encourage Ms K to pay the £3.69 as soon as possible. Im satisfied it was correctly 
applied and I see no fair reason to ask Lloyds to write it off. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman