DRN-3488290
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has declined his travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr B took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 11 March 2020 which was underwritten 
by Ageas. The policy covered a trip starting on 21 November 2020 to 6 December 2020.  
On 31 October 2020, the UK government announced that England will go into lockdown due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdown was with effect from 5 November 2020 to 
2 December 2020. During the period, people were asked to stay at home where possible. 
On 5 November 2020, the airline cancelled Mr Bs flight to his destination. He therefore 
completed a travel insurance claim form and submitted this to Ageas on 6 November 2020. 
Ageas assessed the claim but declined it. It said there was no cover on Mr Bs policy for the 
cancellation of his holiday and there was also no cover for any claims arising from prohibitive 
regulations by the government of any country. 
Unhappy with Ageas response, Mr B brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the cancelled holiday wasnt covered 
under Mr Bs policy. Theres a list of reasons under the cancellation section of the policy 
which would provide cover but the flights being cancelled wasnt an event that was covered. 
Additionally, she said claims arising as a result of prohibitive government regulations wasnt 
covered on the policy either. Our investigator didnt think Ageas had declined the claim 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs travel insurance policy as this 
forms the basis of his contract with Ageas. 
The cancellation section of the policy, on page 6, sets out what cover is available and what 
isnt. This states:
CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or   
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or 
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for  minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any 
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; 
or 
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or 
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
Based on the above terms and conditions, as Mr B didnt cancel the trip due to any of the 
reasons listed above, I dont think the cancellation claim is covered. 
Mr B completed the claim form and I can see, in this, he said that the holiday was cancelled 
by the providers because of the pandemic and that he was prepared to go on the holiday 
until the airline cancelled because of government restrictions. So, the reason for his 
cancellation isnt a listed event for which he has cover. 
On 5 November 2020, the UK government announced a lockdown, and, on the same day, 
Mr Bs flights were cancelled. The following day, Mr B completed a claim form and sent this 
to Ageas for the cancelled trip. 
On page 6 of his policy also states in the same cancellation section as above What you are 
NOT covered for. This goes on to explain that claims arising from prohibitive regulations by 
the government of any country isnt covered under his policy. As well as the above listed 
events which arent covered for what happened, this exclusion on the policy would also 
mean that there is no cover under Mr Bs policy for what happened. 
Ive considered Mr Bs comments that further flights from the provider did go ahead and the 
government of the country he was intending to travel to was still accepting visitors from the 
UK. I appreciate this but, as Mr B says, his flight provider decided to cancel the flights on 
5 November 2020. And, the day after, Mr B submitted a claim to Ageas. Mr B has said 
himself in the claim form that the holiday was cancelled because of the pandemic and that 
he was prepared to go on the holiday until the airline cancelled because of government 
restrictions. So, the fact that trips were going ahead to his intended destination isnt relevant 
as Mr B decided to cancel the holiday for reasons he explained in his claim form, which were 
because of the pandemic and the government restrictions. I appreciate also that Mr B has said the flights were likely cancelled due to commercial 
reasons. On balance, however, its more likely that the flights were cancelled due to the 
pandemic given the events that happened at the time of the cancellation. But, even if the 
flights were cancelled for any reason other than the pandemic (which I dont think they 
were), Mr B still has no cover on his policy as cancelled flights is not a reason for which 
cover would be provided under the policy. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs comments that the policy he purchased was a Premier one and 
not a basic one. I understand, but regardless of the type of policy, the crux of the matter is 
that even on the Premier policy, he has no cover for what happened in the circumstances 
of his complaint. 
And, in regard to Mr Bs comments about the broker he purchased the policy from, Im afraid 
this isnt a matter for Ageas to deal with as it didnt sell the policy to Mr B. The reviews the 
broker receives isnt Ageas responsibility. 
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr Bs claim was declined fairly and 
reasonably by Ageas. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask Ageas to accept the claim. It follows that I dont require Ageas to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman