DRN-3880445
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly 
terminated its Bounce Back Loan facility. 
Miss G is Es director, and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E banked with Barclays and took out a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan with the bank in May 
2020. 
In April 2021, Miss G asked Barclays to close Es bank accounts, which it duly did on 
12 May.
The first Bounce Back Loan repayment fell due on 19 June, after the 12-month payment 
holiday that was a feature of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme came to an end. As the 
required payment wasnt made, Barclays wrote to E on 23 June and asked it to take action  
either by making up the payment, or getting in touch if it needed help.
Around the same time, Miss G submitted an application to strike off the company to 
Companies House. This was lodged on 13 June 2021. 
Barclays became aware of the application a short while later. The bank wrote to E on 
30 June and asked that it get in touch to discuss the debt it owed. It also explained that it 
may freeze any credit balances and object to the proposed dissolution of the company if it 
didnt receive a response.
Barclays subsequently objected to the striking off of the company. This action was 
suspended. The bank wrote to E again, asking the company to get in touch to discuss the 
situation and advising that it may take steps to recover the money it was owed.
Having not heard from E, or received any payments towards the debt, Barclays terminated 
the Bounce Back Loan agreement and wrote to the company with a demand for repayment 
of the full amount outstanding on 11 August 2021.
With E no longer holding a bank account with Barclays, the bank opened a recoveries 
account for the sole purpose of servicing the loan. This was the source of some confusion 
subsequently, when Barclays gave Miss G those account details  and she attempted to use 
them to receive a payment for E, which was rejected. 
Miss G says, in summary, that E didnt receive any correspondence from Barclays about the 
Bounce Back Loan, as a third party interfered with its post. This is evidenced by way of a 
court order, but the bank hasnt taken this into account in how it has pursued repayment of 
the Bounce Back Loan. So she wants the bank to reverse the default, and agree a payment 
arrangement for the loan.
Miss G also says that the bank made an error in revoking Es access to an account, which 
led to the payment from its client being returned and in turn damaged the companys 
reputation and caused it to lose business. So she also wants Barclays to compensate E for 
this, and to open it a replacement account. In addition, Miss G wants Barclays to reimburse 
E for accountancy fees that she says it incurred as a result of the banks failure to provide it 
with account statements when requested. 
Barclays doesnt agree that it has done anything wrong in how it has handled the Bounce 
Back Loan. In short, it says that it was Es responsibility to ensure that it made the 
repayments as per the terms of the agreement and that it made sufficient attempts to inform 
the company of the action that was required in light of the strike off action. The bank has, 
though, accepted that it made an error in providing Miss G with the recoveries account 
details and paid her £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience this had caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays take any further action. In summary, she 
said:
The loan agreement had clearly explained Es obligations in terms of the loan 
repayments, stating when and how much it was required to pay. Barclays had also 
sent reminders to E by post and email. So, even accepting that Es post had been 
interfered with, she thought the company ought to have been aware of its obligations. 
And so she didnt think the bank had acted unfairly in defaulting the Bounce Back 
Loan.
Barclays had made an error in providing the recoveries account details to Miss G. 
But shed not been provided with any evidence to show that this had caused E any 
financial loss. And she thought that the £100 already awarded by the bank was fair 
compensation for the inconvenience this had caused.
Barclays had sent the bank statements that Miss G requested to E on a couple of 
occasions, and Miss G had confirmed receipt on at least one occasion when calling 
in to request a further copy in a different format.
Miss G didnt accept our investigators view, primarily because she didnt think due 
consideration had been given to the impact of the postal interference. So she asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from what Barclays has said that it defaulted Es Bounce Back Loan in 
response to the strike-off action (and the lack of remedial action taken by E in light of this). 
While the fact that E wasnt making any repayments to the loan would in itself have been 
grounds to default the Bounce Back Loan, it seems that this wasnt the primary reason for 
the banks actions.
Barclays was entitled to take this action in these circumstances. The dissolution of the 
company wouldve left Barclays with no recourse to recover the £50,000 it was owed, so it 
sought to protect its position in the manner Id expect. Steps being taken to dissolve E 
constituted an event of default under the terms of the loan agreement, entitling the bank to 
demand the immediate repayment of the loan in full.It was, however, also a condition of the loan agreement that Barclays would give E a 
reasonable period to remedy any breach  and, if remedied within that period, it would not 
treat the loan as having defaulted. After being alerted to the intended dissolution, Barclays 
wrote to E on 6 July 2021 to give it such an opportunity  asking it to get in touch, and 
explaining that a formal demand may be issued if no action was taken. Ultimately, having not 
heard from E, Barclays proceeded to default the loan on 11 August.
I understand from what Miss G has told us that she didnt receive the banks letter of 6 July. 
And she has provided evidence to substantiate the reasons for this  that the post at this 
address was being interfered with. Ive no reason to doubt that she didnt receive this letter. 
So I can understand her view that E didnt have a fair opportunity to resolve matters before 
the loan was defaulted.
I cant, however, see that things wouldve turned out any differently even if E had received 
this letter. I understand that Miss G became aware, sometime in August 2021, that the loan 
had been defaulted and that payments were overdue  as she was in touch with the bank on 
25 August. But a satisfactory way forward still wasnt agreed. The arrears werent made up, 
and no payment arrangement was put in place. Miss G was still attempting to dissolve E, 
which the bank wasnt prepared to allow in view of the debt it owed. 
So it seems to me that even if E had received correspondence about the dissolution, things 
would have always ended up in much the same position. Alongside the intended dissolution, 
the company had failed to make the required repayments to the loan. The issues with Es 
post wouldnt absolve it of its responsibilities in this regard. In any case, the loan remained in 
arrears even after E was aware of the position in August 2021. The level of arrears  and the 
broader concerns over Es ability and willingness to pay the required amounts  wouldve led 
the bank to default the loan in just the same way, being an additional event of default under 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Ive also noted that Miss G believes things couldve been different if E had been allowed 
access to the Pay As You Grow options. Once the loan was defaulted, E was ineligible for 
those. It couldve taken advantage of them before that, and that it did not do so is not 
something for which Barclays is responsible.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require 
Barclays to reverse the default of the Bounce Back Loan. All I can do is remind the bank of 
the expectations on it to treat E fairly in the steps it takes to recover the loan, and to give due 
consideration to any repayment proposals the company puts forward. 
Miss G has raised two supplementary points of concern. One being that Barclays failed to 
respond to her request for copy statements, which led to E incurring additional accounting 
costs. The banks records show that it actioned these requests. Its difficult for me to verify 
that the statements were indeed posted and correctly addressed. But I think thats most 
likely what happened, given the evidence I have. Either way, Ive not seen that E actually 
incurred any additional costs as a result of being left without these statements.
There is, finally, the confusion that arose when Barclays provided Miss G with the details of 
the recoveries account  the sole purpose of which was to facilitate repayment of the 
Bounce Back Loan. Believing this to be a functioning bank account, Miss G says she 
provided the details to a customer in order to receive a payment that was then declined. 
Barclays accepts that it made an error here, and I can see that it wouldve caused E some 
inconvenience in having to rectify the matter with their customer. For that, I think that the 
£100 Barclays has already paid is fair compensation  having not seen that this caused the 
company any other losses. I understand that Miss G still wants the bank to open a new account for E, but thats not something I think I can fairly instruct it to do. She is, of course, 
free to follow up with the bank directly if that is something she wishes to pursue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman