DRN-2834087
The complaint
Mr D complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly added a late 
payment marker to his credit file after he amended his direct debit to pay the full outstanding 
balance on his credit card account rather than the minimum monthly repayment.   
What happened
Mr D had a credit card account with Tesco Bank. In November 2020, he received his credit 
card statement which showed the outstanding balance and a minimum amount he needed to 
pay. On 9 December 2020, Mr D amended his direct debit online so the full statement 
balance would be taken rather than the minimum payment. Unfortunately neither payment 
was taken and on 18 December 2020, when the payment was due, a late payment was 
reported on his credit file.
In January 2021, Mr D called Tesco Bank after it wrote to him to tell him hed be charged a 
late payment fee. During this call, he was told the late payment wouldnt affect his credit 
rating if he made a payment at that point. Mr D repaid the outstanding balance and closed 
the account during the phone call. But the information he was given was incorrect as the late 
payment marker had already been added. 
During the call, Tesco Bank agreed to waive the late payment fees that had been added to 
the account. And after Mr D complained as hed discovered the marker had been added to 
his credit file, Tesco Bank offered him £50 as compensation for giving the wrong information 
over the phone. But it wouldnt agree to remove the late payment marker on Mr Ds credit file 
as it said it was added correctly. Tesco Bank highlighted that when Mr D amended the direct 
debit amount online, a screen wouldve popped up alerting him that any changes made 
during the statement period could mean hed need to make a manual payment and 
prompting him to do so there and then. It said Mr D mustve chosen not to. 
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response, Mr D asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator agreed Tesco Bank had acted fairly in adding the late payment marker. But she 
thought it should pay him a further £50 as compensation for giving the wrong information 
over the phone. Mr D accepted what our investigator said but Tesco Bank didnt. So the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why. 
Tesco Bank says a screen wouldve popped up when Mr D was changing the direct debit 
instruction, alerting him that he may need to make a manual payment. As I understand Mr D 
didnt make a manual payment, nothing was paid towards his account before the due date of 
18 December 2020. So whilst I accept its unfortunate this happened when Mr D was trying 
to repay the full balance, there was a late payment on the account. So I dont think the 
information Tesco Bank has reported on his credit file is wrong. And Mr D seems to now 
accept this following our investigators assessment. 
The outstanding question for me in this case is whether Tesco Bank has done enough to 
make up for the incorrect information it gave Mr D over the phone. And I dont think it has. 
Mr D says he called Tesco Bank as soon as he received the letter notifying him of what had 
happened. There were around two weeks between the date of the letter and when Mr D 
called. But considering the time of year the letter was sent and that Mr D says hed moved 
address and his post was being forwarded, I accept what hes said. During this call, he 
asked how what had happened would affect his credit rating. So it seems to me he was very 
worried about what had happened  and what impact it would have on his credit file. 
I appreciate by the time of the phone call Tesco Bank had already reported the late payment. 
So it doesnt think the wrong information Mr D was given put him in a worse position. But Im 
satisfied it wouldve much more disappointing for Mr D to find out his credit file had been 
impacted after hed been given the impression there was nothing to worry about, than if hed 
been given the correct information in the first place. And I think its more likely finding out at 
a later date that this information was incorrect and a late payment marker had been added 
wouldve caused him more distress, inconvenience and confusion than needed. 
Putting things right
I know Tesco Bank thinks the offer its made to compensate Mr D for the wrong information 
he was given over the phone is fair. But I dont agree its enough to make up for the impact 
this had on Mr D. So instead, I think Tesco Bank should pay him a total of £100 to put things 
right. I understand its already paid him £50. So that means it should pay him another £50.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman