DRN-3042682
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard, did not refund the payments 
he says he didnt otherwise authorise to an investment scam company. 
What happened
Mr H responded to an advert posted by 23 Traders. He spoke with an account manager over 
the phone who set up a trading account for him and agreed to invest £500 on 3 February 
2017. Mr H provided his Barclays credit card details to 23 Traders over the phone.  
On 7 February 2017, Mr H received a call from his account manager who offered to guide 
him through trades by remotely accessing his computer. Mr H was directed to do various 
things on his computer screen, one of which was enter an amount for each particular trade. 
Five payments totalling £15,000 were subsequently debited from Mr Hs credit card account. 
A final payment of £4,000 was attempted but this payment was declined by Barclays. Mr H 
told his account manager that he wasnt aware that payments were being debited from his 
account. 
Mr H asked his account manager to cancel his trading account and return his money. He 
was asked to sign declaration forms and provide further identification documents, which he 
duly did. He subsequently lost all the available balances on his trading account, which his 
account manager said was lost through trades. Mr H contacted Barclays for assistance in 
recovering his money.
 
Barclays said it blocked a payment on 7 February 2017 and Mr H confirmed (via text 
message) that he had authorised the payment, so it concluded the payments were 
authorised. Barclays raised chargeback claims for all the disputed payments and 
successfully recovered two payments totalling £1,500. The remaining transactions were 
defended by 23Traders bank and Barclays concluded it had no reasonable prospect of 
success if it were to pursue the claims further.
 
Barclays paid Mr H a total of £150 compensation for customer service failings. 
One of our investigators upheld Mr Hs complaint. Whilst she agreed with Barclays that Mr H 
had authorised the payments (albeit he was misled into doing so) she felt Barclays could 
have done more to warn Mr H that he had fallen victim to a scam. She asked Barclays to 
return the disputed payments, less the amounts successfully reclaimed through the 
chargeback scheme. 
Mr H accepted the outcome.
Barclays didnt agree, it didnt think a conversation with Mr H would have uncovered the 
scam. It says there was no scam warnings or FCA warnings about 23 Traders, so there 
would not have been a need for a scam conversation. It also noted that Mr H did not properly 
take care of his details and gave them to 23 Traders to use. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
binary options, commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing 
returns or losses. Some binary-options traders promoted these productswithout a licence 
from the UKs Gambling Commissionusing sales methods that were arguably unethical 
and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such 
acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or 
burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to 
disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to 
another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that 23 Traders were not carrying out legitimate binary options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gains in order to induce further investments from victims such as Mr H. In the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
In 2017, binary-options traders operating in the UK were required to be licensed by 
the UKs Gambling Commission  whereas 23 Traders were not. Nor were they 
regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates 
they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate firms tend 
to comply with regulatory requirements.
On 23 January 2017, an alert about 23 Traders was published by the Danish 
Financial Supervisory Authority on the investor alert portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). 
There are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and online 
forumsstating that 23 Traders were scammers. This hearsay is not in itself 
sufficient evidence of fraud. But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly 
and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall 
picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider whether Barclays could have done more to prevent the 
scam. 
Barclays is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr H for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr H using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Barclays. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr H was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers 
and he was tricked into making them, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time of the 
transactions, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I dont need to consider whether there ought to have been fraud triggers here because 
Barclays fraud team did block an attempted payment of £1,000 on 7 February 2017. 
Regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long ago as 
June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled Banks 
Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victimsthat it 
was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of scams and 
potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence with other 
banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no specific 
timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update its watch-
list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the 
FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my judgment, 
such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being 
pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Hs case, there was a warning about 23 Traders published on the IOSCOs Investor 
Alerts Portal from 23 January 2017, which was before the first payment on 3 February 2017 
 but only by just over a week. It is not unreasonable to expect a large international bank 
that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about payees who had tried to 
carry out regulated activities without permission. I accept the warning would not have 
identified what type of investment was being sold; and it did not necessarily follow from the 
nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters. And given the timing of the alert 
relative to the first payment, I do not think Barclays ought to have automatically blocked it; 
and may not yet have had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list. However, 
in light of the odd pattern of payments that followed, Barclays did block payments to what 
was a new payee; also an international payee; and a payee trading in binary options without 
being registered with the Gambling Commission (as required at the time). The bank had 
constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  
therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr H before 
processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well. But even if I were to give Barclays the benefit of the doubt and conclude that the first few 
payments were too close to the IOSCO alert to trigger alarm bells. It concluded the second 
payment on 7 February 2017 was unusual and blocked it. 
This was clearly a highly unusual and uncharacteristic pattern of spending for Mr H 
compared with his recent history on the account  and was an indicator that something 
untoward might be happening (including, for example, an attempt to circumvent the anti-
money laundering requirements by making a number of smaller payments in short 
succession to the same payee). 
If, instead of merely confirming Mr Hs intentions to pay, Barclays had fulfilled its duties by 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have explained 
what he was doing. 
In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to protect Mr H from a bad bargain or 
give investment advice, it could have explained to him that there was a regulatory warning 
and invited him to look more closely into this trader. It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed binary options traders in that 
customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if 
a lay consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary options trading, 
including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the 
European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; and 
so forth). 
There is no evidence that Barclays provided Mr H with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene. 
causation
If Barclays had asked Mr H what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it 
is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. Barclays did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr H was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I 
consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that Barclays ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unlicensed binary options. 
If Barclays had given a warning, I believe that Mr H would have paused and looked more 
closely into 23 Traders before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. And the evidence 
suggests this was his first time putting his money into a high-risk investment. It seems more 
probable that he would have made further enquiries into whether or not 23 Traders were 
regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and that they were 
subject to a regulatory warning. In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from his trusted 
bank would probably have exposed 23 Traders smoke and mirrors, causing him not to 
invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really licensed UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr Hs payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. 
But for Barclayss failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr H 
would probably have not lost any money. 
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr H was to blame for what 
happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. 
Mr H trusted who he believed to be a professional account manager and had no cause to 
doubt their legitimacy until after they had taken all of his payments. When he provided his 
card details, he did so on the belief that 23 Traders were a legitimate investment company. 
When he realised they were not, he promptly contacted Barclays for help. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr H should share blame for what happened.
I recognise that Barclays paid Mr H £150 for customer service failings. I think this was fair 
and reasonable and I make no further compensation award on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I therefore require 
Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard to:
1. Refund all of Mr Hs stolen payments save the first two (totalling £1,500) as they 
were recovered through successful chargeback claims. 
2. Rework Mr Hs credit card account so that all interest and charges caused by the 
payments at point 1 are refunded. 
3. Pay 8% simple interest per year on any payments made by Mr H towards the credit 
card balance arising from those payments, interest or charges, from the date they 
were made to the date of settlement. 
4. Correct any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the 
disputed payments. 
5. If Barclays deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award at point 3, it 
should provide Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman