DRN-3404255
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim against their buildings insurance. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to all parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
In summary, Mr B and Mrs B made a claim to Aviva in 2019 after a bird entered their 
property, causing damage to a sofa suite and carpets, amongst other things. Aviva accepted 
the claim and cash settled it. However, Mr B and Mrs B complained about the amounts Aviva 
paid them. 
Aviva responded to the complaint maintaining they settled the claim fairly. They did, 
however, offer Mr B and Mrs B £250 compensation for the way things were handled. The 
dispute ran on beyond Avivas final response letter which led to a further suggested increase 
to part of the settlement. But Mr B and Mrs B say the increased amount was never received. 
Mr B and Mrs B approached our service after remaining unhappy with Avivas response. 
An investigator here considered things and later recommended Aviva increases the cash 
settlement amount for the sofa suite and pay £300 for polish (including interest on the £300 
payment). She also recommended Aviva pays Mr B and Mrs B the £250 compensation they 
originally offered. 
Aviva agreed, but Mr B and Mrs B didnt. They say Aviva withheld information from them and 
provided them with an unfair settlement. As such, they think Aviva should pay them the full 
value of a new sofa suite and increase the compensation amount. As no agreement could be 
reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sofa suite 
A sofa and chair were damaged beyond repair that were part of a three-piece set. Mr B and 
Mrs B say they paid £2,375 for it approximately 12 years ago and its no longer made. 
Aviva says they relied on the initial validation visit and further opinions from a surveyor to 
cash settle the sofa suite. I think Aviva could have been clearer in explaining their cash 
settlement reasoning, as it seems the surveyor provided an opinion in the absence of 
knowing the fabric grading of the suite, which Mr B and Mrs B say they provided. 
Later, however, Mr B and Mrs B provided evidence they felt showed the cash settlement 
amount given for the suite should be increased. Following our involvement, Aviva agreed to 
the increase the amount, from £2,897 to £5,497. Im satisfied this is fair in all the 
circumstances based on the evidence Mr B and Mrs B provided. So, Ill be directing Aviva to 
pay the difference. 
Mr B and Mrs B think Aviva should pay them the full value of another suite given the time 
thats passed and due to the way things were handled. But I dont agree. Theyve now 
shown a fair like for like replacement cost was £5,497 based on the market value at that 
time. This is Avivas liability in respect of the claim so this is what they must now increase 
the initial cash settlement amount to. 
Mr B and Mrs B also requested Aviva pays them the costs to remove the damaged sofa. Our 
investigator requested they provide evidence of these costs so it could be considered, but I 
cannot see anything further has been received in respect of this. So, while I wont be 
directing Aviva to pay this in my decision, should Mr B and Mrs B have further evidence, they 
should provide it to Aviva for further consideration. 
Carpets 
Mr B and Mrs B say they were forced to accept carpets of lesser quality that didnt resemble 
the damaged carpets. They also say they were poorly fitted, but Ive seen however, in July 
2021, it was agreed they would be replaced and refitted due to this. 
After Aviva offered to cash settle the carpets, Mr B and Mrs B provided their own quotes that 
ranged from approximately £2,800 to £3,500. They say Aviva wouldnt consider these but did 
agree to settle this aspect of the claim to match a carpet they provided as an example they 
say was for the purpose of showing Avivas cash offer was too low. Eventually, Mr B and Mrs 
B chose a carpet from Avivas own supplier. 
I can understand why Mr B and Mrs B requested Aviva meets their own quotes. But I havent 
seen strong supporting evidence that shows the options given by Aviva were unreasonable, 
or of a lesser quality. 
The policy says if all parties agree to a cash settlement, Aviva will only pay what it would 
cost them to repair or replace the item. So, Im not satisfied Aviva were required to meet Mr 
B and Mrs Bs own quotes. Ive also seen an email from Aviva to Mr B and Mrs B from 
November 2019 which suggests they authorised their own supplier to upgrade the new 
carpet from the quality of the damaged one, which suggests Aviva were trying to put matters 
right reasonably. So, I dont require Aviva to do anything else here in respect of the carpets. 
Level of service 
Things could have been handled better overall. There were avoidable delays early on and I 
think the communication could have been better. For example, Mr B and Mrs B told us they 
provided Aviva with information they felt was being overlooked. They say they had provided 
Aviva with the fabric grade early on which appears to have been missed, and an offer to 
increase part of the settlement was made but later withdrawn. To be clear, I dont think the 
£500 settlement increase offered but later withdrawn should now be paid given Ill be 
directing Aviva to increase the settlement based on Mr B and Mrs Bs latest evidence from 
the sofa retailer. These are just several examples which I think demonstrates poor service.
To add to this, a computer was also damaged and valued incorrectly which Aviva say was 
due to human error. This could have been the case, but this led to Mr B and Mrs B having to 
correspond further which Ive no doubt would have added to their frustration. Mr B and Mrs B were evidently unhappy with the amount of compensation Aviva offered. I do 
think Aviva could have paid this when it was offered given Mr B and Mrs B had already 
suggested they would be approaching our service. But I dont think this payment not being 
made makes a material difference to the outcome. I say this because my role is to consider, 
based on all the circumstances, what I consider to be fair and reasonable compensation in 
any event. 
It follows, I agree there were some service issues which would have caused Mr B and Mrs B 
to experience a level of distress and inconvenience  over and above whats naturally 
expected following a claim. I do, however, think £250 compensation is fair, reasonable, and 
proportionate in all the circumstances to reflect the way things were handled. I wouldnt 
expect Aviva to include interest on a compensation award in this case because this amount 
in its very nature is to reflect any distress and inconvenience experienced. It is not intended 
to be a payment to reimburse an amount Mr B and Mrs B had lost out on or had to pay 
themselves as part of the claim. So, I wont be directing Aviva to include interest on the 
compensation payment. 
I appreciate aspects of my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B and Mrs B. I do 
appreciate this has been a frustrating period for them. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve their dispute with Aviva  can do for them. 
Putting things right
Aviva Insurance Limited must now pay Mr B and Mrs B the difference between £2,897 and 
£5,497, plus £300 for the polish and include 8% simple interest* (on the £300 payment for 
polish only) from the date of loss to the date of settlement. They must also pay £250 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
*If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct tax from that interest, they should tell Mr B and Mrs B how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Mr B and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman