DRN-2148144
The complaint 
Miss D complains about the quality of a vehicle bought on finance with Mi Vehicle Finance 
Limited trading as Mann Island Vehicle Finance (Mann Island). 
What happened
Miss D took out a hire purchase agreement With Mann Island for a car in July 2016. Miss D 
says she didnt experience any issues with the car until 1 August 2020 when it wouldnt start. 
Miss D has had a mechanic look at the car, who has confirmed a problem with the timing 
chain. This is preventing the car from starting at all. 
The mechanic wasnt sure without further investigation whether the engine was repairable, 
or if a new one would be needed. Miss D contacted Mann Island and asked them to pay for 
the repairs to the car. She said that as its under a finance agreement, Mann Island are 
responsible for fixing any problems. 
Mann Island considered Miss Ds complaint but decided not to do anything more. They said 
that as the fault wasnt present at the time the car was supplied to Miss D, then they couldnt 
be held responsible for it. Unhappy with the response, Miss D brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss D. He thought the car was likely to have been of 
satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied, so he didnt think that Mann Island needed to 
do anything more.
Miss D has asked for an ombudsman to review her case. She doesnt feel the car is up to 
standard, and also says Mann Island should be responsible for fixing the fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that Mann Island arent responsible for everything that might happen to 
Miss Ds car whilst its under the hire purchase agreement. Under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, they are responsible for the goods being of satisfactory quality. This means that at the 
time the goods are supplied, they need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory. 
So, although Miss D feels that Mann Island should meet the cost of repairs, I must consider 
whether they are responsible for the fault. I must decide whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the time that it was supplied. 
What a reasonable person would consider satisfactory will take account of any description of 
the goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, 
will include things like the age and mileage of the car. 
When Miss D was supplied the car, it was 6 years old and had travelled around 65,000 
miles. At the time of the fault in August 2020, it was 10 years old and had travelled around 
86,000 miles. 
When a person acquires a used car like Miss Ds its reasonable to say that the expectation 
of quality is lower than that of a new car, or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The 
price for the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. 
The chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, is higher. 
Miss Ds mechanic has noted that he wouldnt expect a fault of this nature to occur until the 
car had travelled around 150 to 200,000 miles. This is an estimate and will also depend on 
factors including servicing and particular use of the car. It seems that the lifespan of a part 
like this varies but it can be lower than Miss Ds mechanics estimate. In any event, it 
breaking sooner than an estimated lifespan doesnt automatically mean that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. 
Miss D says that there may be a wider fault with this type of car. I havent seen anything 
persuasive to support this being an inherent defect with this car. 
Satisfactory quality also includes an element of durability. That is, the components of the car 
can be expected to function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period 
of time. Miss D had explained to Mann Island that she had not encountered a problem with 
the car before this fault. So, she had four years and around 20,000 miles without any 
significant issue or problem. I think this would be considered a reasonable period of time for 
a car which was six years old (and had travelled around 65,000 miles) when it was supplied. 
I think, that at 10 years old and having covered 86,000 miles, Miss Ds car was around the 
age when a reasonable person might start to expect that some relatively serious repairs may 
be needed. As a result I find there was no durability issue with the car when it was supplied.  
Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, it is the risk of owning an older and higher mileage 
second-hand car like this one. I appreciate that having a car that suddenly wont start is a 
stressful, and may be an expensive, experience for Miss D. That doesnt mean that Mann 
Island are responsible for the cost of repairs. 
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Miss Ds car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Therefore, although Miss D has 
experienced a fault with her car, Mann Island are not responsible for the cost repairing the 
fault.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman