DRN-4356781
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked her account. 
What happened
Miss S has a savings account with Nationwide, which shed been using to save money to put 
towards her college and university expenses.
In March 2023, Miss S applied online for a credit card account with Nationwide whilst 
overseas. The application was declined, and in April 2023, Nationwide sent Miss S two 
letters letting her know that it wasnt able to offer her any other products. Following the failed 
application Nationwide decided that it needed to verify some information with Miss S, so it 
wrote to Miss S via email on 19 April 2023, asking her to get in touch with them. Nationwide 
also tried to call Miss S. But it wasnt able to get in touch with Miss S.
In May 2023, due to the lack of response from Miss S, Nationwide blocked Miss Ss account 
 which meant Miss S couldnt access her online banking, the money in the account or use 
her bank card. Miss S discovered that her account was blocked when she tried to make a 
payment from her account. Miss S complained to Nationwide via email about the block to her 
account. She said that Nationwide had looted her account and were prejudiced against her 
because she was in another country when she applied for a credit card. She said she hadnt 
done anything wrong, and the block was causing her mental and physical trauma. 
In response Nationwide, said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked Miss Ss 
account. And had done so in line with the terms and conditions. It apologised for any trouble 
the block was causing Miss S but said before it was able to remove the restrictions on her 
account it needed to speak to her in order to verify some information so that it could 
safeguard her account. Miss S didnt contact Nationwide, so her account remained blocked. 
Unhappy with this response Miss S brought her complaint to our service. She said that 
Nationwide had unfairly blocked her account as nothing in the terms applied to her 
circumstances. And she hadnt done anything wrong. She said that the money in the account 
represented her life savings and Nationwides actions had been very upsetting. She believes 
Nationwides actions was based on prejudice. She wants compensation for the trouble and 
upset she was caused by Nationwide blocking her account. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She noted that Nationwide had asked 
Miss S to contact them by phone so that it could verify some information, but Miss S hadnt 
done so. She thought Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked Miss Ss 
account. And that it had done so to meet their legal, regulatory, and safeguarding 
obligations. So, she said Nationwide had treated Miss S fairly when it blocked her account. 
Miss S disagreed. She maintained that Nationwides actions were racially motivated and that 
shed not breached any terms and conditions. So, Nationwide had no right to block her 
account and did so without her permission. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Nationwide has extensive legal and 
regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, 
and to prevent and detect financial crime. To fulfil these obligations, they may need to review 
activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information, for example about 
payments, and information about the individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and 
obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Miss Ss account also permit Nationwide to 
review an account and ask its customers for information. I should also point out that 
Nationwide doesnt need Miss Ss permission to do so. 
 
Nationwide blocked Miss Ss account following a credit card application. Miss S has 
confirmed to this service that she made the application, thinking due to her age it as about 
time she had a credit card account. She said she applied for the account whilst overseas. 
Nationwide declined the application and wrote to Miss S saying it wasnt able to offer Miss S 
any other products. 
Up to the point of the credit card application, Miss Ss account had been dormant  with no 
transactions on her account for at least six months. Nationwide also werent able to verify 
some of the information provided in the credit card application. So, to safeguard Miss Ss 
account, Nationwide reached out to Miss S via email asking her to get in contact with them in 
order that it could verify the activity and the information that had been provided.  But Miss S 
didnt respond. Nationwide also tried to get in touch with Miss S by phone. But again, 
Nationwide werent able to get hold of Miss S. Im satisfied that Nationwide attempted to get 
in touch with Miss S by different means, between April and May 2023, which I think is a 
reasonable amount of time. I can see that Miss S sent emails to Nationwide in May 2023, but 
she didnt comply with Nationwides requests to speak to them. So, Nationwide couldnt 
verify what it needed. Because of this Nationwide blocked Miss Ss account in May 2023. 
Nationwide is obliged to carry out checks to protect accounts from identify theft, fraud, and 
financial crime. Nationwide has to have in place security measures and procedures in order 
to try to safeguard its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, if they dont receive the necessary information that they request to 
allay those risks, which is what happened here, I do not consider blocking Miss Ss account 
is a disproportionate measure for Nationwide to take. So, whilst I accept this upset Miss S, I 
dont consider Nationwide treated her unfairly when it blocked her account.
 
Its clear from what Miss S has told our service and Nationwide that she believes she is a 
victim of racial discrimination by Nationwide. While I can appreciate this is her perspective, it 
is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide whether the business has 
acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Im required to consider a number of 
factors in order to decide Miss Ss complaint in accordance with what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Part of this has meant considering the 
provisions of the Equality Act 2010 . And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Nationwide decided to block Miss Ss account for an improper 
reason. 
In summary, its clearly caused Miss S trouble and upset when she wasnt able to use her 
account.  I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating time for her  especially as shes explained shed saved hard so that she could put the money towards supporting 
herself whilst she studied, So, I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. But having 
looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I cant say Nationwide 
treated Miss S unfairly when it blocked her account. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
award Miss S any compensation since I dont find Nationwide acted inappropriately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman