DRN-3344971
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has stopped paying 
part of her income protection insurance claim.
What happened
In 2016, Ms D was diagnosed with a serious illness. This resulted in her making a successful 
claim on her work income protection insurance. In 2019 and 2020, Ms D was assessed by 
L&G to see if she still met the requirements of the policy. In November 2020 it determined 
the results of these reviews meant Ms D was no longer eligible for the suited occupation 
benefit she was receiving. This resulted in Ms Ds payments being reduced.
Ms D complained to L&G as she didnt agree she could do another suited occupation. She 
quoted the medical reports shed received, as well as providing a letter from her GP outlining 
that she wasnt fit to return to work. L&G didnt change its stance on her claim, so Ms D 
came to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. The investigator said she agreed with L&G 
that while the medical reports did support Ms D wasnt able to return to work in her own 
occupation, they didnt conclude she wasnt able to do any suited occupation. So she 
thought the reduction in benefit was fair. Ms D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds policy documentation and schedule sets out the requirements for her to successfully 
claim on her income protection. Her schedule explains that she must meet the incapacity 
definitions and that for her specific job role, cover works in the following way: 
the definition of incapacity which will apply for a claim will be our "own occupation" 
definition for the first 12 months of payment and after this period 50% of the benefit 
will be assessed on this "own occupation" definition and 50% of the benefit will be 
assessed on our "suited occupation" definition.
Her terms state that the following definitions apply in relation to own and suited 
occupations: 
Own occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately 
before the start of the deferred period. 
Suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or 
injury so that he is unable to undertake any occupation appropriate to his experience, 
training or education.
Its not in dispute in this case that Ms D meets the requirement to receive own occupation 
benefit. What is in dispute is whether she should also still be receiving the 50% benefit 
associated with suited occupation.
Ms D has asked if the terms mean that she would need to prove she was unable to any role 
which shes qualified for anywhere in the world to continue to receive suited benefit. And  
while this isnt exactly correct  the basis of what shes saying is. There is of course a 
degree of whats reasonable when interpreting insurance terms. But the answer to the 
general point behind the question Ms D is asking is yes. If there are suited occupations that 
Ms D can do, including with another employer, then she isnt able to meet the requirements 
of this term. L&G isnt required to find a specific suited role for Ms D. It is simply required to 
assess whether she, in her current state of health and with her current skills, could do any 
other suited role.
Ive reviewed all the medical information provided to us and the reports that the different 
medical personnel have written. But I cant say its unfair that L&G has taken the stance it 
has. The reports that support Ms Ds stance that she is unable to return to work do seem to 
focus on Ms Ds abilities in her current role. They dont specifically set out why she couldnt 
do any other role she is suited too. Its not in dispute that her illness has left her with physical 
deficits. But it seems these have been assessed in relation to the physical demands and 
endurance of her current role, with her current employer. I can see from the information L&G 
has collected that Ms Ds background before starting this role means she has a number of 
skills in other areas. And these mean she does seem suited to sedentary office roles. And I 
havent seen medical evidence which specifically says shes physically unable to generally 
do this kind of role.
I appreciate the reports provided do also discuss the mental health impact of Ms Ds illness 
and understand this is of course an important factor too. And she hasnt had all the treatment 
that has been suggested for her recovery. However, I can also see that its been stated by 
the psychiatric independent medical officer that Ms D wasnt suffering from a psychiatric 
condition that stopped her from re-engaging with work in general terms. I do acknowledge 
this report sets out steps for Ms D to take, which werent completed, but I dont think this is 
enough to say L&Gs stance is unfair.
First  while I accept Ms D has shown willing to undertake the required treatment  it 
wouldnt in general terms be acceptable for someone to not have suggested treatment for a 
number of years and also say they remain unfit to work. For the purposes of this claim, L&G 
are the provider of the policy  not a private healthcare provider or Ms Ds doctors. But in 
any event, the report does state Ms D isnt suffering from a condition that precludes her from 
general work. The fact it then goes on to state what is required for return to work with Ms Ds 
employer is again moving away from any suited employment and instead about Ms Ds 
specific current employment. So while I do accept that Ms D hasnt completed all the 
recommendations from this report, I dont think this in itself is enough to say L&G has acted 
unfairly in stopping the suited occupation benefit.As our investigator has set out to Ms D, she will continue to receive reviews by L&G, as she 
is still claiming under her cover and meeting one of the required definitions. So if new or 
updated medical evidence becomes available to support her stance, L&G should consider 
this. But at this time I cant say L&G has unfairly reduced her payments.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman