DRN-4154727
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC accepted an 
application for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) from its company secretary without first 
confirming the application with Ss company directors.
Ss complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Miss D.
What happened
In December 2022, Miss D raised a complaint with Lloyds on Ss behalf because she wasnt 
happy that Lloyds had accepted a BBL application in 2020, which had subsequently been 
approved, from the person who had been the company secretary for S at that time. Miss D 
explained that the company secretary, who had since left the business, had applied for the 
BBL without the knowledge or approval of Ss directors, and had then used the received BBL 
funds for her own personal benefit.
Lloyds responded to Miss D and explained that, when the company secretary had applied for 
the BBL, the company secretary had been the sole signatory on Ss business account. As 
such, Lloyds didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong by accepting the application from S, 
submitted by the company secretary, as they had. And Lloyds also didnt feel theyd acted 
unfairly by approving the BBL application theyd received, because S had qualified for a BBL 
under the terms of the BBL scheme at that time. Miss D wasnt satisfied with Lloyds 
response, so she referred Ss complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Miss D has explained that the company secretary applied for the BBL without the knowledge 
or consent of Ss directors. And she feels that Lloyds should have contacted Ss directors to 
confirm that they authorised the loan application before accepting it as they did. 
Im not in agreement with Miss D on this point. The main reason for this is that it was the 
responsibility of Ss directors to have managed Ss relationship with Lloyds, including who 
was the named signatory on Ss Lloyds account. 
At the time the company secretary applied to Lloyds for the BBL, the company secretary, 
and only the company secretary, was a named signatory on the account. As such, Im 
satisfied that the company secretary was authorised to apply for a BBL with Lloyds on Ss 
behalf at that time as they did. And I feel that if Ss directors are unhappy about this point, 
then the responsibility for this sits with Ss directors themselves, for not managing Ss 
relationship with Lloyds, including who was an account signatory, in a different way.
I also dont feel that its reasonable for Miss D to have expected Lloyds to have confirmed 
the BBL application with Ss directors before processing it. Again, this is because the 
company secretary was the named signatory on the Lloyds account  ultimately, at the 
behest of Ss directors. And so, given that Lloyds received a BBL application from the named 
signatory on the account, there was no reason for Lloyds to seek any further approval from 
the directors of S. 
This isnt to say that the company secretary didnt act fraudulently here. But it is to say that 
Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong or act unfairly by processing the application 
they received  for the reasons explained above  and that any grievance the directors of S 
may continue to have with the company secretary is a private matter between themselves. 
Ss directors allowed the company secretary to be the sole named signatory on the Lloyds 
account, which therefore empowered the company secretary to act as they did. In these 
circumstances, I dont feel it would be fair or reasonable to expect Lloyds to reimburse or 
compensate S as Miss D would like.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action. I trust that Miss D will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman