DRN-2806454
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited has administered her personal 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C has personal private medical insurance, which also covers her son and daughter. 
Shes had the policy for a number of years and it renews on 1 April of each year. In February 
2020, BUPA sent Ms C a renewal quote for the 2021-21 policy year for a total price of 
£9663.88.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all non-
essential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed 
by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-19, private 
medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS.
Ms C got in touch with BUPA on 23 March 2020 to ask if it was prepared to defer the policy 
until after the pandemic, or reduce the premium, given the impact on her familys access to 
policy benefits. BUPA explained that it wasnt able to offer these options (although it did 
explain that that it was still looking into how it would respond to Covid-19). But it said that itd 
set-up a coronavirus hub for its customers and it was offering some new services  including 
an enhanced cash benefit and virtual consultations. Ms C chose to retain her policy.
As Ms C was unhappy with BUPAs response though, she asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the policy 
terms and conditions allowed for either a policy deferral or premium refund. And while he 
appreciated that Ms C felt the policy hadnt provided the cover shed expected it to, he 
thought she did have access to some benefits under the policy. And BUPA had also 
introduced some remote services. So he didnt think BUPA had treated Ms C unfairly.
Ms C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I explain that BUPA issued its 
final response to Ms Cs complaint on 26 March 2020  before the new policy year began. 
Ms C has told us that her daughter was unable to receive private treatment or undergo 
investigations during the 2020-21 policy year, which the policy would usually have covered. 
This had caused her some suffering. As our investigator explained, at the point BUPA looked 
into Ms Cs complaint, there was no suggestion that any claims on the policy had been 
delayed or that necessary treatment couldnt be carried out. So Ms Cs daughter, or Ms C on 
her behalf, will need to raise this issue with BUPA as a new complaint before were 
potentially able to look into that issue.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, I think BUPA has treated her fairly. Ill 
explain why. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Ms Cs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of her contract with BUPA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Cs policy say her plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. BUPA intended to provide cover under Ms 
Cs private medical insurance policy from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021. Even if Ms C didnt 
go on to make any claims during that time, BUPA was entitled to retain the premium it 
charged to cover the risk of Ms C or her family making a claim during the policy year. 
And the terms of Ms Cs plan set out her cancellation rights under the contract. These say 
that if she cancelled her policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy documents, or the 
cover start date, shed be entitled to a full refund of her premiums (unless any claims had 
been made). If Ms C chose to cancel her policy at any point after 21 days, BUPA would 
refund the premiums shed paid after the date the cover ended. Theres no term in the 
contract which allows Ms C to suspend the payment of premiums or to defer the policy term. 
So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Ms C that neither of these options were available to her 
at the point she requested them. 
I dont think its accurate to say Ms Cs policy was unusable. Depending on the type of 
medical treatment or services she or her family required, BUPA couldve pre-authorised 
treatment to be carried out at a later date. Ms C had access to, amongst other things, 
BUPAs remote services, mental health support and video consultations. Ms C would also 
have been eligible to claim enhanced benefits if shed been hospitalised with Covid-19 
during that time. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. BUPA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
BUPAs control. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund any premiums to Ms C, based on the information she provided when 
she made her complaint to it. BUPA has told us that a third-party independent review has 
taken place to see if thered been any exceptional financial benefit to it as a result of Covid-
19. BUPAs website suggests that this review has now taken place and that eligible 
policyholders will receive a rebate between April and the end of July this year. I should say 
that theres no guarantee that Ms C will be entitled to any refund in 2021 this is for BUPA to 
calculate. If Ms C is unhappy with the way any potential rebate is calculated, shell need to 
complain to BUPA about that issue. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, but I wont be asking BUPA to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman