DRN-4210486
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that they were wrongly advised by HSBC about the information 
required to receive a transfer of money in dollars. As a result the transfer was sent back and, 
when received again, at a lower exchange rate. They further complain that HSBC failed to 
advise them about the exchange rate it applied.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr T called HSBCs international payment division about the steps he 
needed to take to receive a payment of $339,000 into his account. He was told, over the 
course of two phone calls that he needed to provide the SWIFT code. He was further told 
that the dollars would be converted into £ sterling at the exchange rate that applied at the 
time. Whilst he mentioned providing his account number, he wasnt specifically told he 
needed to provide the IBAN (international bank account number) to the transferring party.
Mr T went ahead and requested for the transfer to take place. He was asked about his IBAN 
but as he was driving at the time and asked for the money to be transferred without it. When 
the money arrived, it was sent back (on 1 November 2022) as it didnt have the correct IBAN 
on it. After Mr T gave the correct IBAN , the money was resent and credited to their account 
on 18 November. However due to a change in the exchange rate, the amount received was 
less than if it had been received on 1 November.
HSBC agreed that Mr T should have been informed about the IBAN. It paid Mr and Mrs T 
£300 fir distress and inconvenience. It also credited £5283.82 to their account. This was the 
difference between the exchange rate that would have been applied by HSBC on 
1 November and that applied on 18 November.
Mr T wasnt happy with this. He felt that HSBCs exchange rate was very much lower than 
he could have obtained on the market and that as the money would have taken four days to 
clear an average of the exchange rate should be applied over those four days should be 
paid. He believes the payment is short by over £13,400.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that HSBC had acted 
reasonably
Mr T didnt agree. He said that what hadnt been addressed was the hidden excessive loss 
caused by HSBC using its own exchange rate. He believes HSBC should have explained 
this to him. He also felt that the fairest way to apply the exchange rate would be to take an 
average over the four days he believes under normal circumstances it would have taken to 
reach its account.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr T spoke to HSBC on 21 October the reasons fir his enquiry were 1 to find out what 
information he needed to provide to carry put the transfer 2 whether the money could be 
transferred in dollars to his account and 3 what the fees were for transferring the money and 
if the exchange rate that applied was whatever it was on the date of transfer.
In respect of the information Mr T needed to supply the transferring bank, in the calls of 21 
and 22 October I dont think it was made clear to him that he needed to supply not his uk 
account number but his IBAN. Because this wasnt supplied Mr and Mrs T were put thorough 
an anxious wait while they waited to find out what  happened to their money. because of this, 
recognising that it was partly at fault HSBC paid Mr and Mrs T £300 compensation. I think 
baring in mind our awards of compensation in similar cases this was far and reasonable.
Mr T was advised of the £5 fee applicable. Though he was later told this fee only applied if 
HSBC carried out the transfer and that different fees might be applied by the sending bank, I 
note that he was charged £5. In respect of the exchange rate in my view Mr T wasnt making 
the call to find out what it would be as he was clearly aware that the rate might fluctuate. But 
I dont think he was requesting details of the likely rate. 
I dont think that HSBC was obliged to tell Mr T about its likely excahange arte and how that 
comptred with others. 
When HSBC received, and sent back  the payment of $339634.10 on 1 November 2022 the 
exchange rate was 1.1829966. This equated to £287,096.43. When it was received again on 
18 November the rate was 1.2051770 equating to £281,812.61. HSBC paid ther diffrence, of 
£5283.82. Its rates wawere based on its sopt rte fir the day. Mr T bealives he had agreed 
with HSBC ath the aeaverge rate over three days would be used ans whukst that certibkly 
was discussed thre wasnt aby agreeanmb th th would be the case. And no actul rates were 
discussed. 
Im are atht Mr T thibbns the prevailing market rate should have neen bapplied but thre is no 
such arte. HSBC has made a coomaracil decision as to athe rtres it usess eanatled to. It 
doesnt charge a commission, and whilst its rates arent the best obtainable they are 
comparable to other banks, and Mr T was free to check what other rates were available . 
Indeed I note tht he ahd a currency exchange company lined up but chose to proceed with 
HSBC.
I have to look at what would have happened  if the transfer had gone through as planned. In 
that event Mr and Mrs T would have received £287,096.43 on 1 November 2022 (being the 
date HSBC returned the transfer). Insted they received £281,812.61 on 18 November and 
the balance on 1 December 2022. So they have lost out on the intresr tahy would have 
earned on atht maoney. Foir atht rrewson I think atht HSBC should pay interest for thew 
period Mr and Mrs R wawre without the maoney.
P o reflect the t
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman