DRN-3595271
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to manage and 
invest his pension in a way which provided investment returns in line with performance in the 
stock market.
What happened
Mr B has a with-profits pension policy with Prudential. He says he pays charges of around 
£1,000 each year. He says that in 2020 the transfer value for his pension increased by 
around £10,000 whereas the following year it only increased by around £1,000. He says this 
is not in line with how the stock market was performing in the respective periods. He 
complained to Prudential.
Prudential investigated his complaint. It said that Mr B held a with-profits policy. This meant 
that the value of his policy was linked to the investment return on its with-profits fund which 
invested in a wide range of assets including equities, government securities and property. 
Prudential said its with-profits policyholders received returns on their investments by way of 
bonuses. Each year Prudential declared both a regular bonus and a final bonus. 
Prudential said it applied a smoothing process when declaring bonuses which worked to 
protect policyholders from the extreme ups and downs of investment performance. It said it 
had been able to keep regular bonus rates, paid to Mr B, at the same level as those declared 
in 2019. But its terminal bonus rate for the year 2020, declared in February 2021, had been 
reduced due to the impact of the global pandemic and ongoing market uncertainty.
Mr B did not agree with what Prudential said. He referred his complaint to our service. He 
provided further information about the performance of the stock markets in both 2020 and 
2021. He said this showed that his pension had increased by over £10,000 in 2020 which 
had been a very bad year. So, he couldnt accept that in 2021, which he said had been the 
best year for stock markets since 2016, his pension had only increased by just over 
£1,000.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that with-profits policies didnt work in the 
same way as other investment funds. Instead bonus payments were declared each year and 
these were based partly on investment performance. The with-profits fund manager used 
smoothing which meant that the amount of bonus declared was not necessarily equal to 
the growth of the fund in a particular year. As a result of smoothing the fund manager was 
able to support bonus rates even when markets underperformed. So, for example, despite 
market volatility in 2020, Prudential had declared a bonus.
Our investigator also referred to the fact that Prudential was regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and Prudential was required to publish its Principles and Practices 
of Financial Management (PPFM). He didnt think that Prudential should have to do 
anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree. So, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is that the transfer value of his pension didnt increase in 2021 by as much 
as he would have expected given how stock markets were performing at the time. He says 
that Prudential hasnt invested or managed his policy properly. Having considered everything 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B had a with-profits policy. This meant his funds were invested in Prudentials with-profits 
fund. This type of fund operates differently to other types of investment fund. Generally 
policyholders in an investment fund will participate in any gains or losses in the underlying 
fund in equal proportion. But a with-profits policy operates differently. 
Each year the value of the with-profits policy will increase by the amount of the annual bonus 
which is declared by the Fund Manager. The annual bonus once added to the policy cannot 
be taken away as long as the policy holder continues to meet the terms of the policy. At the 
maturity date, surrender of the policy or death of the policy holder, a final bonus might be 
added. The amount of the final bonus is not guaranteed. It will depend on how well the fund 
has performed over time. 
Bonus rates are partly based on gains within the with-profits fund after a process known as 
smoothing has been applied.  Smoothing means that in future years, even where stock 
markets might be underperforming bonuses can still be added.
Because of the nature of a with-profits policy, as described above, its value doesnt 
necessarily reflect the current performance of the stock market. Ive looked at the 
documentation which Prudential provides to its customers. Some of this is available online. 
So, for example, in its document Your With-Profits Plan  a guide to how we manage the 
Fund, Prudential describes how it works out the amount of the annual bonus. It also 
explains how it applies smoothing before declaring bonus rates. 
As our investigator said, Prudential is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (the 
FCA). The FCA requires it to have and publish a document called Principles and Practices 
of Financial Management (PPFM). This document is also available online. It explains in 
more detail how Prudential manages its with-profits funds and how it calculates policy 
values. Ive noted that it includes details about the investment strategy adopted and how it 
seeks to treat all with-profits policyholders fairly when determining bonus rates.  
Having considered the information available to policyholders, Im satisfied that Prudential 
has explained how it calculates its bonus rates and why the value of its with-profits policies is 
not directly linked to stock market performance.
The amount of the bonus is a commercial decision for Prudential and it can be difficult for a 
policy holder to be satisfied that the bonus rate is accurate. 
As mentioned above Prudential is regulated by the FCA. It is required to operate its with-
profits fund in line with its PPFM and it must appoint a with-profits actuary who must comply 
with rules and guidance. In addition it has a With-Profits Committee which is responsible for 
independently assessing the way in which Prudential manages its with-profits business and 
how it balances the rights and interests of policy holders and shareholders in relation to its 
with-profits Fund. An annual report is provided to policyholders setting out how Prudential 
has complied with its PPFM. So, I dont think that a reduction in bonus means something has 
gone wrong or that the fund is being managed improperly.Mr B says he cannot understand why the increase in the value of his policy in 2020, which 
he says was a very bad year insofar as stock markets were concerned, was higher than 
the increase in value for the following year, which he says was the best year since 2016. 
The difference was around £9,000.
In broad terms, the transfer value of Mr Bs policy was made up of the amounts hed 
contributed, the value of any annual bonuses which had already been added to his policy 
and the amount of any final bonus payment (less charges). 
Prudential has explained that the annual bonus it declared in 2020 and 2021 remained the 
same. So, despite stock market performance, there was no reduction in the annual bonus. 
The annual bonus is added to the guaranteed benefits of Mr Bs policy. But Prudential 
acknowledges that the final bonus included in Mr Bs transfer value for the year 2021 had 
reduced. It says this was linked to investment returns in 2020.
Prudential declares its annual and final bonus amounts each February. So, the bonus 
declared in February 2021 related to performance of the with-profits fund in 2020. Ive noted 
that although the annual bonus rate had remained at the same level as 2019, the final bonus 
rate declared in 2021 had reduced  which meant that the transfer value for Mr Bs policy did 
not increase by as much as he thought it should have.
Theres no dispute between the parties that 2020 was a difficult year for financial markets. 
Prudential says that given the global market volatility in 2020, its smoothing process has 
worked to benefit its policyholders by smoothing some of the extreme ups and downs of 
investment performance. And, having considered both performance in the markets and the 
impact of the smoothing process, I think Prudentials explanation for reducing the final bonus 
rates it declared in 2021, is reasonable.
Having considered everything here, whilst I can understand that Mr B was disappointed that 
his transfer value had not increased at the same rate as the previous year, Im satisfied on 
balance that Prudential acted fairly and reasonably, in line with its policies and procedures, 
when it provided the transfer value for the year 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman