DRN-3473394
The complaint
Mr Q  complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited gave him poor service in 
connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from early August 2020, Mr Q had his vehicle insured on a policy with Admiral.
In an incident in late June 2021, a third party made a claim that Mr Qs vehicle had caused 
damage.
In about July 2021, Mr Q complained to Admiral about abrupt communication from its claims-
handler and about delay.
By a (first) final response dated 5 August 2021, Admiral upheld that complaint and offered 
£50.00 compensation. It said it had arranged an inspection of Mr Qs vehicle. In fact the 
inspection and report had been dated 4 August 2021.
Mr Q complained to Admiral that  after the inspection - it hadnt contacted him. By a 
(second) final response dated 20 October 2021, Admiral upheld that complaint and offered 
£75.00 compensation. It said it was getting a consistency report. Admiral got a report that 
was dated mid-November 2021.
Mr Q complained to Admiral that it hadnt contacted him since the final response in October 
2021.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us in early January 2022.
By a (third) final response dated 12 January 2022, Admiral upheld the most recent complaint 
and offered £150.00 compensation. It said its claims-handler would contact Mr Q urgently.
By an email dated 22 January 2022, Admiral told Mr Q it had had tried to call him. Mr Q 
complained to Admiral that it hadnt called or contacted him apart from that email. By a 
(fourth) final response dated late January 2022, Admiral upheld that complaint. It accepted 
that it hadnt called him before the email said that it had. It offered £100.00 compensation.
Our investigator wrote an opinion in early February 2022. She had only seen the first and 
second of the final responses. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should 
be upheld. She thought that there were some aspects of poor communication, but Admiral 
had addressed this by providing fair compensation already.
In early March 2022, the investigator had seen the third and fourth of the final responses. 
She said that their total of £375.00 was reasonable and fair.
Mr Q disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Admiral keeps falling below the standard of customer service that is required - and 
paying him compensation.
Admiral lied to him and then admitted to doing so.
He wants to pursue a complaint to Admiral that in June 2021 his car had pre-existing 
damage which wasnt caused in an incident with the third party. 
In January 2022, his car was damaged. He made a claim and Admiral said the car 
was a total loss. He made a complaint about the handling of that claim and the pre-
accident value Admiral placed on his vehicle. Admiral sent a (fifth) final response 
dated early March 2022. It upheld his complaint in part and offered £150.00 for 
trouble and upset and £90.00 for loss of use of his vehicle. He has sent us a 
complaint form about the valuation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first have made a 
complaint to the financial firm and waited up to eight weeks for a final response before we 
can investigate that complaint.
Where we uphold a complaint that a firm is responsible for an unfair act or omission, we 
consider whether that has caused a financial loss and/or caused a non-financial impact on 
the complainant. We assess compensation for that loss or impact. We dont assess 
compensation at a level to deter or punish repetition of the unfair act or omission.
An insurer may incur an outlay in settling its policyholders claim or in settling a third partys 
claim. Any such claim is likely to affect the policyholders premium for the next policy year.
Where an insurer has received a claim or made an outlay, its common for it to treat the 
claim as an open claim or a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its 
outlay in full, typically from a third party.
Where the same insurer covers both parties to the claim, we expect it to appoint two claims-
handlers and to treat recovery as if each were dealing with another insurer (notwithstanding 
that the insurer wont make any net recovery).
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim from a third party.
When he complained to Admiral in 2021, Mr Qs complaint was about poor communication 
and delay.
I havent seen enough evidence that he had complained to Admiral that the delay had 
caused his premium to increase. Im not satisfied that Admiral had an opportunity to answer 
such a complaint before he brought his complaint to us in January 2022. And Admiral hasnt 
responded to such a complaint. So I dont consider that I should make a final decision on it. 
But I note that the claim was in late June and I find it likely that Mr Qs premium went up from early August 2021, when the claim had been open for only about a month and Mr Q was 
disputing it.
Some of the failings in communication occurred after Mr Q brought his complaint to us. I 
consider that - as Admiral accepted them in the third and fourth final responses - I can deal 
with those.
Mr Q has since raised further complaints. One more recent complaint is that his car already 
had damage to its front bumper in June 2021 that wasnt caused in any impact as alleged by 
the third party. Another more recent complaint arises from an accident later in January 2022. 
I dont consider that I should make a final decision on those complaints as they post-date the 
third and fourth final responses. 
So Im dealing with complaints about delay and communication up to late January 2022.
I dont condone the way that Admiral dealt with the initial call with Mr Q or its repeated 
failures of communication. And I dont condone a claims-handler saying that they had called 
when they hadnt.
I dont under-estimate the extra impact on Mr Q at an already difficult time for him. That 
included concern about what might be happening and frustration at not getting an answer. 
That went on for a number of months.
But some of Mr Qs distress and inconvenience was the inevitable result of the third partys 
claim. 
Admiral apologised as well as paying Mr Q a total of £375.00 compensation. Overall Im 
satisfied that this was fair and reasonable and in line with what I would otherwise have 
directed Admiral to pay. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay any 
more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman