DRN-4052932
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined her claim. 
What happened
Ms S has a group income protection policy with her employer that is underwritten by L&G.  
She was suffering from post-natal depression and anxiety which affected her memory and 
concentration, so was unable to return to work. She began sick leave in March 2021 and 
made a claim on her policy. 
L&G conducted a telephone interview with Ms S. She explained shed also contracted Covid 
19 at the start of her sick leave and this had left her suffering from fatigue, joint and muscle 
pains, headaches, and pins and needles  all of which exacerbated her ongoing post-natal 
depression. 
Ms S confirmed she was taking prescribed medication for low levels of iron and vitamin D. 
Her General Practitioner (GP) had also prescribed anti-depressant medication, but shed 
declined this because she was breast feeding. Shed also been undergoing cognitive 
behaviour therapy. 
Following this interview, L&G concluded Ms S didnt meet the definition of incapacity as set 
out in her policy, so they declined the claim. Ms S appealed and provided further medical 
advice to support her claim. L&G considered the new information but maintained their 
position and declined to cover the claim. 
Unhappy with this, Ms S complained and the matter was referred to this service. Our 
investigator looked at what happened and said there wasnt enough medical evidence to 
show Ms S met the policy definition of incapacity. So he concluded L&G were fair to decline 
her claim. 
Ms S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. She said:
L&G should have had a conversation based around her actual illness instead of a 
nurse not trained in mental health asking questions around her home life. 
She strongly disagreed with L&Gs suggestion that childcare issues were preventing 
her from returning to work. 
She didnt think we had taken into account the distress L&G caused with the 
insensitive way they phrased things  such as suggesting what she was experiencing 
was just a 'normal' response. 
So, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say L&G has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I appreciate Ms S had to obtain her own medical records and had difficulties with this. But 
this isnt something L&G is response for. The burden of proof is on Ms S to prove she has a 
valid claim under the policy by showing she meets the following definition of incapacity set 
out in her policy schedule: 
The insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents them from performing 
the essential duties of their occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period.
Ms S is concerned that her claim was declined solely on the basis of the interview she had 
with L&G. But Im satisfied thats not the case here. 
I can see L&Gs medical officer - a GP Lead for Mental Health and Occupational Physician - 
reviewed the case on more than one occasion and concluded there wasnt enough evidence 
to show Ms S was incapacitated. On his advice, I can see L&G did also try and contact both 
Ms Ss treating specialist and her GP themselves.
Ive carefully reviewed Ms S GP records and psychotherapist notes. The medical evidence 
makes consistent reference to Ms S depression and that she was suffering from low mood, 
lack of motivation and anxiety. But based on the low level of treatment shed received and 
the lack of detail on her functional abilities at work, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G 
to conclude there still wasnt enough to show the severity of her illness rendered her 
incapable of working. 
Im also mindful that the Occupational Health report also makes reference to Ms S being 
capable of returning to work with reasonable adjustments. So I dont think it was unfair for 
L&G to say she didnt meet the definition of incapacity. 
I appreciate Ms S remains upset by some of the comments made by L&G. However, having 
read the comments in their full context, Im satisfied it was reasonable for L&G to explain to 
her their reasons for declining the claim, and I dont think they acted unfairly in providing that 
explanation. 
Taking everything into account, on balance, Im not persuaded Ms S met the definition of 
incapacity. I know this will be disappointing for her - I want to be clear that its not in dispute 
she was suffering from depression and anxiety. There just isnt enough evidence from her 
medical records and treatment plan to show her symptoms were severe enough to prevent 
her from performing her duties at work over the relevant period.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman