DRN-3157251
The complaint
 Mr M complains about TSB Bank plcs decision to withhold his money when they decided to 
close his account.
What happened
 Mr M held a current account with TSB. In January 2020, TSB blocked Mr Ms account while 
they carried out a review. As part of their review, TSB asked Mr M questions in relation to 
recent payments which had been paid into his account.
The payments in question related to two faster payments made into the account from two 
different individuals, a cash payment and two credits received as a refund from a high street 
store who Ill call A. Mr M told TSB what the faster payments and cash payment related to 
and explained the credits from A were refunds. TSB asked Mr M to provide proof of 
entitlement  such as receipts from A  and asked Mr M to take them to his local branch. 
Mr M asked for alternative ways to provide the proof of entitlement, but TSB would only 
accept it in branch. Shortly after the coronavirus pandemic, TSB reviewed their policy and 
introduced different ways proof of entitlement could be given without attending a branch.
When TSB finalised their review and before they received proof of entitlement from Mr M, 
they decided to close the account. TSB gave Mr M 60 days notice, however Mr Ms account 
 and the money in it  remained blocked.
In April 2020, TSB received the proof of entitlement from Mr M. This included two refund 
receipts from two different A stores which matched the amount credited to Mr Ms account. 
TSB didnt accept the proof of entitlement. They didnt think it proved Mr Ms entitlement to 
the funds. So the account, and the money in it, remained blocked. TSB explained that they 
wouldnt release the money until they were satisfied of Mr Ms entitlement. Mr M brought the 
complaint to our service.
Mr M told our service that the credits from A were the refunds of mobile phones which had 
been purchased as a gift from somebody to Mr M. Mr M decided he didnt want the phones, 
and therefore returned them to A and received a refund on his card. Mr M provided emails 
from A to confirm it had agreed to refund Mr M despite a different payment card being used 
for the purchase.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. Firstly, he was satisfied that TSB were 
holding on to the money credited by A fairly. And that was because he didnt think Mr M had 
provided sufficient evidence to show his entitlement. But our investigator also noticed that 
the money TSB were holding consisted of another payment which it didnt appear Mr M had 
ever been asked about. As this payment didnt seem to form part of TSBs review, he didnt 
think it was fair they were holding on it. So, our investigator asked TSB to refund £344 (the 
payment which wasnt linked to the credits from A), and he asked them to pay 8% simple 
interest on the amount.
TSB agreed with our investigators recommendations. Mr M didnt. He didnt think our 
investigator had considered the emails hed supplied from A. Mr M didnt feel a conclusion 
had been found in regard to the money TSB were holding which Mr M feels belongs to him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise how strongly Mr M feels about whats happened  and I appreciate he feels TSB 
are holding on to money which rightfully belongs to him. But having considered the full 
circumstances of this complaint and the evidence, I cant reasonably uphold Mr Ms 
complaint in the way hed like me to. Ive explained my decision  and the reasons for it  
below.
Were TSB entitled to review, block and close Mr Ms account? 
Like our investigator explained, TSB are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
TSB were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing, blocking and subsequently 
closing Mr Ms account.
TSB are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers. And its 
often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Mr Ms case, he received 
payments into his account which flagged for review. Im pleased to see TSB asked Mr M 
about these payments and gave Mr M an opportunity to prove his entitlement to them.
TSB questioned why Mr M had received a refund from A when there wasnt any evidence of 
him making a purchase. Mr M told TSB he received a gift which he didnt want  so took the 
gift back to A and it agreed to refund his payment card directly.
As theyre entitled to do, TSB then made the decision to close Mr Ms account. They can do 
this with appropriate notice as outlined in the terms and conditions of the account. TSB gave 
Mr M 60 days notice  however Mr Ms account remained blocked. Therefore, I dont agree 
TSB gave Mr M any notice. I say this because while Mr Ms account remain blocked, he 
couldnt use it  and as TSB didnt unblock Mr Ms account before closing it, I would treat this 
as an immediate closure.
Having considered the account terms and conditions, TSB are entitled to close the account 
immediately in certain circumstances. Ive carefully reviewed these terms and Im satisfied 
TSB complied with them in the circumstances of whats happened here. I recognise a 
detailed reason for closure wasnt given to Mr M  but TSB arent obliged to tell him why 
theyve made the decision to close the account. This would be the same if Mr M decided to 
stop banking with TSB  he wouldnt have to tell them why. Whats important for me to 
consider here is if TSB complied with the terms when closing the account in the way they 
did. Im satisfied they did, so, based on everything thats happened, I cant reasonably 
uphold Mr Ms complaint on this point.
Are TSB entitled to retain the money from Mr Ms account?
After TSB made the decision to close Mr Ms account  Mr M received a further refund from 
A. TSB then asked Mr M to prove his entitlement to the funds. Initially, TSBs process was 
that Mr M had to attend branch to give his proof of entitlement  but Mr M didnt want to visit 
a branch because of the global pandemic. TSB amended their process around March 2020 and allowed proof of entitlement to be sent electronically. Mr M forwarded his evidence  two 
refund receipts from A  to TSB.
TSB didnt accept the evidence Mr M provided. They wanted to see evidence that Mr M 
made the purchases  or at least an explanation as to why he was refunded the money if he 
didnt make the initial purchases. In April 2020, TSB closed Mr Ms account and explained 
they would hold the money left in it until Mr M provided satisfactory evidence.
Mr M has since provided copies of the purchase receipts showing the payment card the 
mobile phones were purchased from  and emails from A confirming the refunds were made 
to Mr M, despite the payment cards belonging to somebody else. I sent this evidence to TSB 
and they have explained that their position hasnt changed  theyre not satisfied that Mr M is 
entitled to the money based on the evidence he has provided. 
Ive thought carefully about the overall situation, and whether I think TSB are acting 
appropriately in withholding the money which Mr M says belongs to him. 
When the account closed, a balance of around £1,820 remained in it. This money consisted 
of the refunds from A  which are in question  and a refund of £344 from another company. 
I havent seen any evidence that TSB asked Mr M about the refund of £344 and therefore, I 
cant fairly agree this amount formed part of the review. If it did, I would have expected TSB 
to ask Mr M about it. Therefore, I find it reasonable that TSB should allow Mr M access to 
this money  and they should pay simple interest on this amount to recognise the loss of use 
of the money.
In terms of the refunds from A  I dont think TSBs stance of holding on to the money while 
there is doubt of Mr Ms entitlement is unreasonable. TSB have a duty to protect money 
which is paid into their accounts, and at this stage, they arent satisfied that Mr M is entitled 
to the money. I appreciate Mr M feels he has provided enough in the form of purchase and 
refund receipts, and emails from two different A stores confirming the refund transaction was 
processed to his card. But TSB arent satisfied with that evidence. If Mr M is able to provide 
satisfactory evidence to TSB, they are willing to release the money. In the full circumstances 
of this complaint, I find that to be reasonable and therefore I wont be asking TSB to do 
anything differently in relation to this amount (around £1,480). 
Putting things right
 In summary, I think TSB acted appropriately when reviewing and subsequently closing 
Mr Ms account. Im also satisfied that their actions in withholding the money from A left in 
Mr Ms account in reasonable while there is still a dispute into his entitlement to the funds. 
However, I find one payment of £344 never formed part of the review and therefore, I think 
this amount should be released to Mr M with an added interest of 8% simple per year from 
the date TSB initially withheld the money up to the date they refund Mr M. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. TSB Bank Plc should:
Refund Mr M £344.
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the £344. They should calculate this from 
the date the money was first blocked, to the date they refund it.
HM Revenue & Customs require TSB Bank Plc to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. TSB should give Mr M a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr M asks for one.Review any further evidence Mr M sends in relation to his entitlement to the money left in the 
account and release the money once they are satisfied Mr M is entitled to it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman