DRN-2598190
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) hasnt repaired
their rental property as its required to under their residential landlord property insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a residential landlord property insurance policy with Direct Line which
commenced on 8 November 2018. On 16 November 2018, Mr and Mrs Fs tenants notified
them of an escape of water at the insured property. The escape of water related to a first-
floor lavatory and appeared to have caused extensive damage, not only to the bathroom but
to multiple areas around the house.
Direct Line appointed loss adjusters who attended on 22 November 2018. The loss adjusters
said the claim involved an escape of water that had occurred from the bathroom due to a soil
pipe becoming blocked. And, following this visit, Direct Line appointed contractors to assist
with drying-out the property.
During the loss adjusters visit, the tenant stated that the leak had started five months earlier
than suggested by Mr and Mrs F. And the loss adjusters also found that there was historic
mould in the affected areas of the property, which they believed to have developed over a
long period of time. This mould was so extreme that the loss adjusters reported theyd
struggled to breathe. Direct Line said it queried the earlier incident with the tenants and was
told that the leak had occurred six months earlier, resulting in considerable water damage to
the bathroom and areas below. Direct Line spoke with the previous insurer, which said it
hadnt been notified of the earlier incident  meaning that it wouldnt have had a chance to
assess the damage or indemnify loss or damage under the terms of that insurance contract.
So, Direct Line concluded that there were two escapes of water, one of which was prior to
inception of its contract with Mr and Mrs F. It recognised that the second escape fell within
the period of insurance covered by it; but said the same area had been damaged as in the
first. So it thought a contribution towards the claim should be paid  £800 after the policy
excess  for the cosmetic damage, but that indemnification of the remaining loss/damage
should be taken up with the previous insurer.
However, Mr and Mrs F say their previous insurer, which provided cover from November
2017 to November 2018, issued a report to confirm that the extensive damage was caused
by the overflowing lavatory (the second incident) and is the responsibility of Direct Line. 
Mr and Mrs F told us that their previous insurer has issued payment for works believed to be
due to the earlier incident.
As well as not repairing the property, or providing a cash settlement to cover all losses, 
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the overall handling of the claim, including delays, lack of
action, and lack of communication. They provided a timeline of events to highlight what
happened since the date of notification, including who visited on what date, and the
communication between them and Direct Line.
Mr and Mrs F say that Direct Lines acts or omissions have contributed to further
deterioration of the property, loss of revenue, and severe distress and inconvenience to
them and their tenants.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She felt that Direct Line had been fair in making
its gross offer of £1,000 as the reports provided indicated that it was too difficult to determine
which damage had been caused by which incident.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with this assessment for various reasons, the main two being that
they think its very clear that most of the damage was caused by the second incident; and
that they werent made aware of the first incident by the tenant.
So the complaint was passed to me. I communicated informally with both parties to try to
mediate a resolution  as our rules allow. During this informal communication, Direct Line
said it would get in touch with the previous insurer to determine whether one or both of them
should do more here. Ill discuss this further below. But I let both parties know I wasnt
minded to award more than the £1,000 already offered. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They
remain of the opinion that Direct Line should do more to rectify the damage and have asked
that I obtain the evidence from the contractors who first attended the property after the
incident in November 2018. So Ill now present my findings formally.
Provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021. In this I said:
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F, Im not minded to uphold
their complaint  Ill explain why.
The main consideration in this case is the first incident and how, if at all, its impacted the
second  with thought as to whether Mr and Mrs F reasonably shouldve known about and
notified it to insurers. Part of this relates to whether theres sufficient evidence that the
damage caused by the first incident was so minor that it wouldve gone unnoticed by the
tenant, meaning that no claim could realistically have been made. Its important to recognise
that, had there only been one incident and had this occurred during the period of cover with
Direct Line, this claim wouldve been far more straightforward, and the damage couldve
been assessed on the basis of that one incident. But I am satisfied that the weight of
evidence indicates there have been two incidents during different periods of insurance, both
of which involve escape of water and both stemming from the bathroom  so it becomes
much more difficult to determine what damage was caused by which incident.
The report provided by the loss adjusters appointed by the previous insurer says Due to
being such an aged incident it is difficult to confirm with certainty which water came from
where and some damage may cross over between the two incidents. But Mr and Mrs F
have provided a follow-up email from the same loss adjusters, who explain theyve had
further instruction from the previous insurer. The email refers to the damage to the kitchen, 
living room, bedroom, landing and stairs, and notes that Mr and Mrs F say they witnessed an
ongoing escape of water on 16 November, i.e. just 14 days after cover with the previous
insurer had expired. It goes on to say: Damage in the areas above is therefore confirmed to
have occurred after [previous insurer] cover ceased and the repair cost associated with
those areas falls outside the scope of cover available through [previous insurer]. In my
opinion, this isnt saying that there was no damage caused by the earlier incident, but that
because the insured had witnessed so much damage after the insured period, the previous
insurer wouldnt be taking responsibility for it. Im persuaded that the original statement still
stands, namely, that its difficult to confirm which damage came from where.I note that Mr and Mrs F are very keen for me to obtain the evidence, in the form of a voice
recording, from the first contractors who attended the property. This hasnt been provided to
me, but there are a couple of reasons why I dont feel it would make a difference to the
outcome. One of these, Ill come onto a bit later on. But the other relates to what Direct Line
knew when it first arranged for a visit to the property. It didnt know that there had been a
previous incident, so there would likely have been an assumption that the damage to the
property was all linked to this one incident. It naturally follows that the contractors wouldve
recommended the drying-out of the water-damaged property, as this wouldve been the first
step in repairing the property. But when further evidence came to light about an earlier
incident, it was not unreasonable for Direct Line to reconsider its obligations under the policy
terms and conditions.
From what Mr and Mrs F have said, it would appear that they feel very strongly the initial
incident couldnt have caused much damage, and that the second incident was responsible
for the majority of it. But this does conflict with what the tenants said when contractors
attended the property, which was that thered been an issue for many months. Video footage
provided by one of the contractors references an angry landlord and an upset tenant, as well
as extensive pre-existing mould in the property that isnt from the second incident. On
balance, it appears that the tenants probably didnt report damage that ought reasonably to
have been visible. I havent discounted the possibility of some form of dispute between the
tenants and Mr and Mrs F  but there is no good reason before me not to accept their
statements as credible, independent evidence.
Indeed, the tenants version is circumstantially supported by the fact that Mr and Mrs F were
aware of an issue with historic black mould in the property. This means that theres likely to
have been mould in the property already, before Direct Lines period of insurance: mould
from the first incident and mould from the second incident. Mr and Mrs F have provided
evidence of their letters to the tenants from a number of years prior to say that, while the
property was generally being well-kept, they werent adequately ventilating it. Theyve said
they repeatedly asked the tenants to remedy the situation.
Ive looked at the statement of fact that formed part of the contract of insurance. In this it
says:
You have a duty to make to us a fair presentation of the risk.
It also says:
We assume that you have conducted reasonable searches for all relevant
information heldby any other person (such as a person for whom cover is provided
for by this insurance) Direct Line has relied upon the information provided to 
calculate a premium and apply terms and conditions under which insurance cover is
offered.
It warns, in capitals, about the importance of checking the information in the schedule and
the statement of fact.
Later in this document it asks, under the Claims section, Have any claims been made
and/or any losses suffered whether insured or not in the past 5 years, in connection with any
property(ies) you are looking to insure with us? The response next to this is No.
The policy document states This Policy shall be voidable in the event of misrepresentation,
misdescription or non-disclosure in any material particular.Given all of this, I need to think about whether Mr and Mrs F have sufficiently met what was
required of them, with consideration to the Insurance Act 2015. This is the Act that applies to
non-consumer insurance contracts (such as this)  and Mr and Mrs F have made it clear that
they are experienced landlords. The Act requires the insured to disclose every material
circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know or, failing that, disclosure which
gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent insurer on notice that it needs to
make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material circumstances. I believe
that an earlier incident at the property which likely shouldve given rise to a claim; an ongoing
issue with the tenants management of a situation involving mould; and, if applicable, a
breakdown of a landlord/tenant relationship are all material circumstances which the insurer
ought reasonably to have been made aware of by Mr and Mrs F. So Im not persuaded that
the risk was fairly presented to Direct Line prior to taking out the policy. Its worth noting that
the policy with the previous insurer had lapsed and there was a period of four days before
this policy started (though I dont think anything turns on this small gap in cover).
Mr and Mrs F have explained that they didnt know anything about a previous leak in the
property, or they wouldve contacted their previous insurer. They disputed that the tenants
lived in the property for five months with considerable water damage to the bathroom and
areas below. But it seems to me that, rather than this being a matter for Direct Line, this is
something which should be taken up with the tenants.
I cant fairly ask Direct Line to pay an additional sum for a claim that is already so uncertain
in terms of causation and liability for indemnity, especially when it may not have agreed to
take on the risk in the first place if it had known of all material circumstances at the point of
application. Where theres been a breach of the duty of fair presentation, an insurer can
avoid the contract  i.e. treat it as having never existed  and refuse all claims (and even
retain the premiums in some circumstances). To do this, the insurer needs to show that, but
for the policyholders breach, they wouldnt have entered into the contract of insurance at all
or would have done so on different terms. Direct Line hasnt taken this draconian route.
Instead, its provided us with the reports, referred to above, suggesting that its too difficult to
determine which damage was caused by which incident; has offered £1,000 gross for
cosmetic damage; and has offered to correspond with the previous insurer to discuss
whether either party should do more to cover this loss/damage.
Its fair for Direct Line to contact the previous insurer. I do recognise that, other than a few
days between the insurance policies, Mr and Mrs F were insured, whether by Direct Line or
by the previous insurer. And there is no evidence that the escape(s) occurred during the
uninsured period between cover. So it doesnt sit comfortably, without further investigation,
that neither insurer will bear the true cost of repairing the damage. And it does appear that
Mr and Mrs F have lost out  not because of Direct Line, but as a result of all the
circumstances, including the acts or omissions of them and/or their tenants. But given that,
in law, Direct Line could likely have avoided the policy altogether, I think that its offer of
£1,000 (less the excess) is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. (I should also point
out that, in law, an offer isnt binding and may be withdrawn until acceptance of it has been
communicated by the offeree).
Its important to add here that I dont know what will come of communications between Direct
Line and the previous insurer. It doesnt necessarily mean that either insurer will cover the
cost of repairs  both would need to consider the available evidence, whether further reports
are required, and appropriate policy terms (amongst other things).To conclude, due to the available evidence, and the breach of the duty of fair presentation
under the Insurance Act 2015, I dont think Direct Line has been unfair in its offer to:
- Pay £1,000 (less the £200 excess) for the cosmetic damage; and
- Agree to correspond with the previous insurer about a contribution within a
reasonable timeframe (which I provisionally suggest to be within 28 days of my final
decision, providing appropriate updates to Mr and Mrs F).
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs F had some further comments. These can be summarised as follows:
- Mr and Mrs F say they have insured their property in good faith, abided by all 
insurance regulations within their knowledge and yet have a property that has 
deteriorated due to the neglect of their insurance company, costing them tens of 
thousands of pounds.
- Mr and Mrs F maintain that they werent aware of a previous incident. Had they 
been aware, they say they wouldve contacted the previous insurer. In relation to 
the tenants saying the incident had occurred six months prior, Mr and Mrs F say 
the tenants were worried about being blamed for the second incident, having 
allowed the flood to continue for seven hours by leaving the water on. They also 
referenced the personal circumstances of the tenants.
- Mr and Mrs F commented on the relationship with their tenants  saying that it 
was OK prior to the incident. They said any landlord would be upset if a tenant 
left a leak for seven hours before calling them. And they added that, after the 
second incident, the tenants didnt follow instructions to use a dehumidifier and to 
ventilate the property by opening windows. They said the tenants wanted to 
blame the incident on anything other than their inaction. 
- Mr and Mrs F have referred to a report stating that there were lower levels of 
moisture under the bath compared with the areas witnessed as being under water 
when the incident was reported by the tenant. They feel this is a relevant 
consideration.
- In response to the contractor that attended the property who witnessed extensive 
pre-existing mould, Mr and Mrs F have said that its been scientifically proven that 
mould spores can form in this time. Theyve said it hasnt been proven that it 
wasnt the catastrophic second incident (with seven hours of water escape) that 
led to this mould.
- Mr and Mrs F said that Direct Line didnt even attempt to dry the property and 
said that it has contributed to the deterioration of it. They said that the escape of 
water from the lavatory (the second incident) wouldve been contaminated with 
faecal matter and required urgent cleaning and drying due to health and safety.
- Mr and Mrs F referred to the voice recording which I noted hadnt been provided 
to me. They believe the recording or transcript must be available and want to 
know why this isnt being provided by Direct Line. They believe theyve lost out as 
a result of incomplete evidence.
- Mr and Mrs F commented on my reference to the Insurance Act 2015. Theyve 
said that the policy would only be voidable if they were factually aware of any risk 
and if the breach was deliberate or reckless which wasnt the case here. So they 
believe a proportionately reduced amount would be more appropriate. 
Direct Line didnt add anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that Mr and Mrs F have put forward, I havent found cause to 
reach a different outcome than I previously reached. Ive answered the key further points 
raised in response below. But my overall outcome has remained the same. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F have experienced huge losses as a result of this situation. 
But the overarching question here is whether Direct Line has acted fairly and lawfully in 
declining this claim, not whether Mr and Mrs F have ultimately suffered a loss. 
Mr and Mrs F reiterated that they werent aware of the previous incident  I accept this to be 
the case. But the question really is whether they shouldve been aware of it. Theyve 
explained the circumstances of their tenants, who Mr and Mrs F have suggested are 
vulnerable, to some extent. And theyve indicated why the tenants might have had good 
reason to try to blame the damage on a previous incident; to avoid being blamed for their 
inaction surrounding the later incident. While I can appreciate the logic behind the motives 
the tenants might have had for exaggerating an earlier incident, my conclusions remain the 
same. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the insured is required to disclose every material 
circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know. The insured here is 
Mr and Mrs F, not their tenants. Given what they knew about the ongoing issue with the 
tenants management of a situation involving mould  which was known about prior to either 
of the incidents  and what they knew about the vulnerabilities of the tenants, I think 
Mr and Mrs F ought to have known about, and then disclosed, the condition of the property 
prior to the inception of the policy with Direct Line. When I say that they ought to have 
known, I dont simply mean that the tenants shouldve made them aware. I also mean that 
they shouldve had mechanisms in place  i.e. conducted reasonable searches  to ensure 
they were giving a true and accurate reflection of the condition of the property. It isnt for 
Direct Line to determine whether the account of Mr and Mrs F is more or less reliable than 
that of the tenant  that is a landlordtenant dispute and isnt something this policy provides 
cover for. 
Mr and Mrs F have also responded to my comments in relation to their duties under the 
Insurance Act 2015 to explain why they dont think the policy would be voidable. Id point out 
here that Direct Line hasnt voided the policy  nor did it make any suggestion it was going 
to. Instead, I wanted to highlight that I think its acted quite reasonably here  I think it 
couldve made a case for voidance of the policy, rather than offering £1,000 (less the 
excess). But, for completeness, Ill address this. 
Mr and Mrs F have said the policy can only be voided if a qualifying breach of the duty of fair 
presentation is deliberate or reckless  this isnt the case. And that it can reduce a claim 
proportionately if it wasnt deliberate or reckless  which is true but is one of several options 
available to the insurer.
Schedule 1, paragraphs 4 to 6 of the Act apply if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate 
nor reckless. These say:
- if the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract on any terms, the contract 
can be avoided;
- if the insurer had entered into the contract but on different terms, the contract is 
to be treated as if it had been entered into on those terms; or
- if the insurer wouldve entered into the contract but charged a higher premium, 
the insurer may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.And, if the breach was said to be deliberate or reckless, the contract can be avoided, and 
premiums retained. Direct Line hasnt suggested avoiding the contract, so I havent deemed 
it necessary to obtain its stance on whether it wouldve entered into the contract, nor do I 
need to make a finding on whether the breach was deliberate or reckless  this isnt 
something that has formed part of the dispute between Mr and Mrs F and Direct Line. 
Instead, its made an offer, which was presented to Mr and Mrs F, despite the potential  and 
potentially less costly  options available to it. 
Mr and Mrs F have referred to a report stating there were lower levels of moisture under the 
bath compared with the areas witnessed as being under water when the later incident was 
reported. Ive considered this alongside all the information provided to me, but it doesnt 
detract from the statement from the loss adjuster appointed by the previous insurer, which I  
referenced previously: Due to being such an aged incident it is difficult to confirm with 
certainty which water came from where and some damage may cross over between the two 
incidents. 
I appreciate theres some evidence of differentiation in the damage caused by the two 
incidents, such as the moisture levels under the bath  and thats why I think its fair for there 
to be a discussion between Direct Line and the previous insurer. But I maintain that the 
evidence points towards it being quite difficult to determine which incident caused what 
damage. So, I reiterate my provisional conclusions that Direct Line cant reasonably be 
asked to pay an additional sum for a claim when it wasnt made aware of material 
circumstances at the point of application that, strictly speaking, could have entitled it to 
refuse the risk of insuring this property.
Similarly, Mr and Mrs F have said that mould spores can form in the time it took from the 
second incident happening to the contractor attending the property. Though the evidence 
provided isnt specifically in relation to their property and situation, I have no reason to doubt 
this. The issue here is that we know there was already mould in the property due to the 
tenants lifestyle and that there was very likely mould in the property caused by the earlier 
incident. So, while there may have been new mould following the incident, I dont think its 
fair to expect Direct Line to prove which mould related to the incident that occurred during its 
more limited period of cover, for the reasons Ive outlined above. Had there only been this 
once incident, and no history of mould within the property, its likely Id be inclined to think 
differently. 
Mr and Mrs F have said that Direct Line didnt even attempt to dry out the property and said 
this has contributed to the deterioration of it. They point out that theres a health and safety 
issue here for which they suggest Direct Line has an obligation. I addressed this point in my 
provisional decision, provided above, and have nothing further to add in relation to this.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs F believe theyve lost out as a result of incomplete evidence, 
due to a loss adjusters voice recording not being provided. Id like to assure them that had I 
felt this evidence wouldve impacted my decision in any way, I wouldve requested it. They 
note that this loss adjuster was the first to visit the property and its likely this recording 
wouldve referenced the need to dry out the property, as well as comments surrounding the 
recent water damage. But at no point have I suggested that the property didnt need drying 
out. Instead, the question is whether Direct Line was responsible for this. And Ive explained 
in this decision why I dont think it was; namely because of the misrepresentation of risk at 
inception of the policy due to undisclosed material facts, and the lack of certainty around 
causation and liability for indemnity.
I also think its important to note that the loss adjuster who recorded this evidence was the 
same individual who stated, in October 2019, At the time of my visit I had allowed for all 
works, which included the more serious damage, which was eventually confirmed to have been pre-existing damage. As the overflowing of the pipe would have only been minimal, I 
would assess only cosmetic works would be required in the region of £1,000, as most of the 
damage would have been due to the original leak. So Im satisfied that this individual 
recognised there was considerable damage, but had stated his initial findings on the basis of 
what he could see rather than actually attributing that damage to Direct Line to indemnify. 
This takes me back to my original point that the question here isnt whether there has been 
loss  there has; its whether Direct Line is responsible for indemnifying that loss. And I 
conclude, from everything Ive seen or have available to me, that Direct Line has acted fairly 
in offering £1,000 (less the excess) and agreeing to correspond with the previous insurer 
about this matter. I dont think it would be fair to ask it to do more given the full 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
(trading as Direct Line) but ask it to honour the offer it has already made to:
- Pay £1,000 (less the £200 excess) for the cosmetic damage; and 
- Agree to correspond with the previous insurer about a contribution within a 
reasonable timeframe (which I ask to be within 28 days of acceptance of this 
decision, providing appropriate updates to Mr and Mrs F)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman