DRN-3818424
The complaint
Mr Ws representative has complained, on his behalf, about what it considers to be the 
unsuitable advice given to him by WPS Financial Group Limited to switch two existing 
personal pension plans (PPPs) to his self invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
In December 2017, Mr W transferred defined benefits from his membership of the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a SIPP. This transfer has been the subject of a separate 
complaint against WPS.
In March 2018, Mr W contacted WPS to enquire about switching the value of two PPPs, held 
with Phoenix, into the SIPP as well. Mr W met with a representative of WPS in May 2018, 
following which a suitability report was issued - on 21 May 2018. WPS advised Mr W to 
switch one of the plans, but to retain the other as it was on the basis that it had a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) attached to it.
Mr W accepted the advice and switched the pension plan without the GAR into the SIPP. Mr 
W then switched the plan with the GAR attached to it to the SIPP as well, but did so without 
further involvement from WPS.
Mr Ws representative complained to WPS on his behalf in September 2021, saying that the 
switch of one of the pension plans held with Phoenix had been unsuitable and that 
transferring away from a guaranteed income would only be suitable in exceptional 
circumstances.
WPS declined to uphold the complaint, saying in summary that, although the Phoenix plan 
had a guaranteed sum assured, this would only apply if the policy was held until 2036, and it 
was therefore not considered to be a valuable benefit. It said that there were small additional 
costs involved in the switch from the PPP, but that the growth potential in the new plan 
would more than outweigh this.
The complaint was referred to this service and it was assessed by one of our investigators. 
He didnt think that the complaint should be upheld, saying the following in summary:
He noted that the recipient SIPP had been established to receive the proceeds of the 
BSPS transfer.
Although Mr Ws representative had alluded to Mr W having relinquished a 
guaranteed income from his existing policy, WPS had advised against switching the 
plan with the GAR attached to it.
The plan which WPS advised Mr W to switch didnt have either a GAR or a 
guaranteed minimum pension. It had also been subject to minimal annual bonuses 
of 0.05% since December 2013. There was also no penalty for transferring the plan 
out of Phoenix.
As the SIPP already existed as a result of the BSPS transfer which had been 
considered separately, it had a flat annual fee and the fund charge was 0.51% pa. It 
had also been invested in an environment which was subject to financial market 
fluctuations, and would continue to be so.
He also noted that Mr W had later switched the policy containing the GAR against the 
advice of WPS.
Mr Ws representative disagreed, however, saying the following:
The regulator had for a long time been setting out its position that, unless there were 
compelling reasons to do so, such plan switches shouldnt be effected if there was 
likely to be a higher resulting charging structure.
Mr Ws exiting plan had an annual charge of just £20. But upon transferring, there 
would be a £684 entry charge, ongoing adviser charges of 0.5% pa and fund charges 
of 0.51% pa. Mr W was already incurring the fixed platform fee as a result of the 
BSPS transfer.
Mr W considered that he would have been better off retaining his Phoenix PPP once 
the charges had been factored in.
Mr W would have had an element of flexibility with his existing pension in terms of 
deciding how much tax free cash to take and when.
Mr W didnt need ongoing financial advice regarding his pension and he only 
considered that it would be wise to consolidate his pensions as this is what the WPS 
adviser had told him to do.
Although his Phoenix pension plan wasnt exhibiting spectacular growth, it offered an 
element of stability and certainty, as regardless of the volatility of his main pension, 
the more stable with profits policy could be used to draw income in the event that the 
larger pot experienced a steep drop.
Mr Ws Phoenix plan was relatively modest in value and the initial and ongoing 
charges involved with the transfer would have had an impact on Mr Ws retirement 
plans.
Mr W was now potentially in a worse position than he would have been if hed not 
been advised to transfer and there was no compelling reason for him to do so.
Mr Ws representative confirmed that Mr W didnt wish to pursue the matter of the pension 
with the GAR attached with this service.
Our investigator considered these points, but wasnt persuaded to change his mind, saying 
thew following in summary:
It was difficult to compare the charges between the two plans, as those within a with 
profits plan were implicit. But he agreed that Mr Ws transferred pension funds 
would have been subject to the initial and ongoing charges cited by the 
representative  although he also noted that the ongoing adviser charge was 
reduced to 0.35% in 2019.
It didnt seem unreasonable for Mr W to transfer from a policy which had no likelihood 
of future growth into one which he had already established. Whilst charges were an important consideration in any transfer or switch, they 
werent necessarily an overriding reason not to switch, especially when a consumer 
was in a demonstrably poor performing investment with no realistic likelihood of that 
changing.
Mr Ws representative responded to say that Mr W would like the matter reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It said that the investigator had ignored a table in the suitability report which 
showed growth in the policy in excess of the rates quoted by him. It considered that the 
0.05% pa annual bonuses were in addition to growth rates of 1.5% between January 2017 
and June 2017, 4.3% between July 2017 and December 2017, and 0.6%% pa between 
January 2018 and June 2018.
The representative further said that the investigator hadnt taken into account the terminal 
bonus which would apply when Mr W reached his selected retirement age.
As requested by Mr Ws representative, the matter has been referred to me.
I noted what Mr Ws representative has said about the annual bonus being in addition to the 
growth rate for the ceding with profits policy, and so Ive asked the investigator to enquire 
further of WPS as to whether this was the case, and also whether a terminal bonus applied.
In response, WPS has submitted information directly from Phoenix Life, which confirms that 
the growth cited by Mr Ws representative is in fact an uplift amount which is included in 
the policy fund value projections. Its used for calculating final bonus rates for retirement and 
transfer values, and isnt therefore an annual reversionary bonus which, once added, cant 
be removed. Its more akin to a terminal bonus, and reflects the indicative amounts of 
excess assets within the with profits fund. And as is the case with excess assets and 
terminal bonuses, these can change  sometimes quite radically - over time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im broadly in agreement with the investigators view, and for the same 
reasons.
Theres little in fact which I think I can meaningfully add to whats already been said. Suffice 
to say that I agree with the point of Mr Ws representative that there needs to be a 
compelling reason to transfer a policy when the charging structure is likely to be higher.
But the annual bonuses attaching to the Phoenix policy have been low, and on the basis of 
the regulators growth assumptions as to what might be achieved in an average performing 
pension invested in a medium, or even low risk manner, I think theres a reasonable 
prospect that the transferred policy would perform better, even taking into account the 
increased charges, such that I dont think it would be a fair or reasonable to conclude that 
the recommendation to transfer was unsuitable. 
Its fair to say that the Phoenix policy would be subject to a terminal bonus, to which the 
uplifts alluded to above would contribute, but it was unknown as to how much this might be 
at Mr Ws normal retirement age and this was many years hence. And in accepting WPSs 
advice, Mr W was able to capitalise on a penalty free transfer value with an enhancement 
above the guaranteed basic sum of just over £2,000.
And so, overall, I think there was reasonably justification in transferring Mr Ws policy, and so I dont think the advice to transfer into the existing SIPP was unsuitable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman