DRN-3161910
The complaint
Mrs R and Mrs R complain Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. said their claim would be covered, but later declined it. 
Mrs R brings this complaint on behalf of herself and Mrs R. For ease Ill refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mrs R.  
What happened
Mrs R booked flights in January 2020, to travel abroad in June 2020 with her family. And she 
took out travel insurance with Mapfre.
Mrs R and her family were unable to travel as the airline cancelled their flights due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. The airline offered the option of taking a voucher, or re-booking her 
flights for another date. Mrs R chose to re-book for September 2020, but she was charged 
an additional amount for the difference between the costs of the new flights and her original 
booking. 
Mrs R called Mapfre and asked if she would be covered for the additional amount she had to 
pay to re-book her flights. And Mapfre said this would be covered.
However, after Mrs R submitted a claim for her additional flight costs in April 2020, Mapfre 
declined it. It said the costs of amending a holiday booking werent covered under the policy. 
Mrs R complained to Mapfre. It said trip amendments were not covered by the policy, 
however it would cover the costs of amendment, if this amounted to less than the cost of 
cancellation. But as the cost of the amendments was higher than cancellation, it said it had 
been unable to consider the claim. 
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mrs R brought her complaint to this service.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, and in summary, I said:
Id considered the relevant industry rules, which say an insurer must handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. And it should provide 
reasonable guidance to help a consumer make a claim. 
Mrs R called Mapfre about the costs of re-booking her flights. And Id listened to the 
call. 
Mapfres agent said yeah - we would cover you for those extra incurred charges due 
to re-booking, so we would cover you for this. Mrs R asked Mapfres agent to repeat 
what he said and was told yeah we would definitely cover you for those extra costs 
that you would have incurred, so you can put a claim forward to be considered for 
them. 
At the time this call took place, I accepted Mapfre hadnt assessed Mrs Rs claim in 
full. However, I thought Mapfres agent clearly advised Mrs R that it would cover the 
costs shed explained were involved in re-booking her flights. And it wasnt until two 
months after submitting her claim form, that Mapfre advised she wasnt covered.
I thought about the impact the incorrect information about cover had on Mrs R. And I 
considered the terms of her policy, and the voucher she was offered by her airline. 
Mrs Rs original flights were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the airline 
offered the option of re-booking or a voucher. But the airline required Mrs R to pay 
amendment costs and the price difference between her original and new flights. I was 
satisfied there was no cover under Mrs Rs policy for these circumstances. So I 
thought Mapfre was entitled to decline the claim.  
I also considered what Mrs R might have done, had Mapfre told her she wasnt 
covered for the costs of amending her flights. Mrs R has said the new flights were on 
hold for 24 hours with the airline, so she still had the option to change her mind after 
calling Mapfre. I thought this reasonable and consistent with what I might ordinarily 
expect to happen when flights are booked over the phone. So I accepted what shed 
said. 
Had Mapfre told Mrs R her claim wouldnt be covered, she may not have gone ahead 
with the flight booking, and shed have had the option to take the airline voucher to 
use another time. However, I thought it most likely Mrs R would have made another 
flight booking at some point, to make use of the voucher. And, due to the age of Mrs 
Rs child when re-booking, she needed to book three seats instead of the original 
two. So aside from any general price increases and differences, I thought it most 
likely Mrs R would have always needed to pay additional costs to re-book her flights, 
due to her child needing a seat, and the amendment costs charged by her airline. 
Mrs Rs policy doesnt provide any cover for her circumstances. So I didnt think it 
would be reasonable for me to direct Mapfre to pay the claim. However, I thought 
Mapfres assurance over the phone that the claim would be covered, negatively 
impacted Mrs R. She was told her circumstances were covered in April 2020, and 
didnt find out until the end of June, that this wasnt the case. Due to the incorrect 
information, I thought Mrs R lost some opportunity to make an informed choice about 
whether or not she wanted to go ahead with the new flight booking at the quoted 
price. 
Because of this, I thought Mapfre should pay £100 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience in relation to the considerable disappointment of Mrs R later being told 
there was no cover in place for the costs shed paid.
Mapfre had already offered Mrs R £75 in respect of the delay in assessing her claim. 
This is separate and in addition to the award above. Mrs R submitted her claim at the 
end of April 2020, and received Mapfres decision at the end of June 2020. And in 
those circumstances of delay, I thought Mapfres offer was fair. 
The response to my provisional decision
Mrs R responded to my provisional decision. She said she had still been left out of pocket, 
but accepted the provisional decision.  
Mapfre didnt make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any further points, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint. And I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Mrs R and Mrs R £100 in addition to 
the £75 it has already offered. So a total of £175. 
Mapfre must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs R and 
Mrs R accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman