DRN-3221752
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased 
her credit card account limit to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Mrs L says Barclaycard should not have increased her credit limits on her credit card 
account. She says the increases were unaffordable and were increased on six occasions 
from 2010. Mrs L says that she was in debt at the time and the lending was irresponsible. 
She says her credit file would have shown defaults and late payments. Mrs L would like all 
interest and charges refunded. She would also like any adverse information removed from 
her credit file.
Barclaycard says Mrs L managed her account appropriately and says it carried out 
appropriate checks before each credit limit increase. It says there wasnt any adverse 
information on Mrs Ls credit file and that she made appropriate payments following use of 
her credit card account for holidays as well as retail spending. Barclaycard has given us 
permission to look at this complaint from 2010.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator asked Mrs L for a copy of her credit file and bank account statements, but she 
says she will not or is unable to provide them. The investigator thought appropriate checks 
were carried out and there was nothing to suggest the lending was unaffordable.
Mrs L doesnt agree with that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending, credit applications and credit limit increases. Those checks will of course vary 
depending on the type and amount of any lending. I would not expect for example the same 
level of checks on a credit limit increase compared to a mortgage application but of course 
checks must still be carried out.
This was a credit card account and the credit limit was increased on six occasions from 2010 
to 2017. I will not detail each of them as the investigator has summarised all of the increases 
and the amounts in her view.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards records and can see that before each credit limit 
increase it looked at Mrs Ls account management which I think was appropriate and 
checked her credit file. I can also see that affordability checks were carried out and risk 
calculations made. I have looked at Mrs Ls account statements and I cant see any evidence 
of missed or late payments. 
So, Im satisfied Barclaycard did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving the credit limit increases. I cant see any evidence that the increases were 
unaffordable and am satisfied that Mrs L managed her account appropriately. It follows that I 
dont think Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by approving the increases and I have not seen 
any evidence that Mrs L told Barclaycard about any financial difficulties.
I appreciate Mrs L says that if Barclaycard checked her credit file then it would have seen 
defaults and late payments. But I think it did check her credit file and such information wasnt 
present. I would have expected Mrs L to have provided evidence of any defaults or late 
payments by either providing her credit file or information about the late payments.
Overall, Im satisfied the credit limit increases were appropriately checked by Barclaycard 
and so I cant fairly order it to refund any interest or charges I think were correctly applied in 
line with agreed account terms and conditions. I have not seen any evidence that any 
adverse information has been recorded on Mrs Ls credit file in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman