DRN-3412957
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined her home insurance claim for 
damage caused by subsidence. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs D made a claim for subsidence damage under her home insurance 
policy. Ageas instructed its structural expert and site investigations and monitoring were 
carried out before the claim was declined in April 2021. Ageas said the cracking Mrs D 
reported was due (at first floor level at the junction between the extension and the main 
house) to fluctuation of the building fabric due to the previous alterations and the method of 
construction, and (at ground floor level) due to very slight thermal movement which was of 
no cause for concern. 
Mrs D complained to Ageas that she was unhappy that her claim had been declined. She 
said that the cracking to her house was the result of a collapsed drain which, in turn, had 
been caused by subsidence. Ageas looked into her complaint but didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It issued its final response letter in August 2021 and said it said itd found no 
drainage defects that were causing any leakage. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to Ageas, Mrs D instructed and paid for her own 
structural engineers report. Despite carrying out no investigations itself, it thought that 
subsidence had been caused by leaking drains that had softened the propertys foundations 
bearing strata in certain areas causing movement. It said that whilst Ageas had carried out a 
CCTV survey of the drains, such surveys didnt pick up any leaks at joints so it 
recommended the drains were water pressure tested for leaks, including the gullys and 
drainage runs to the soakaways. It said that any leaks discovered should be repaired and if 
there were no leaks, then further investigations should be carried out. 
Ageas reviewed the engineers report but saw no reason to for it to change its opinion that 
the damage wasnt caused by subsidence. 
Unhappy with Ageas response to her complaint, Mrs D complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought that, 
following the recommendation of Mrs Ds own engineer, Ageas should arrange to have the 
drains pressure tested by a drainage specialist because he wasnt satisfied that the trial pit 
and CCTV survey Ageas had undertaken was enough to determine that the drains werent 
actually damaged. 
Ageas disagreed with our investigators findings. It said if the drains were leaking it wouldve 
expected the monitoring to show ongoing foundation movement. Instead, it said, the 
readings confirmed stability. So Ageas said it didnt agree to the pressure testing. In addition 
it said our investigator had accepted the cracking was consistent with subsidence but it 
couldnt agree. It reiterated what itd concluded the cracking had been caused by. It said the 
cracking at first floor level wasnt commensurate with the very slight cracking at the ground 
floor. It said there was no evidence to support the cause of damage being the result of 
foundation movement as suggested by Mrs Ds own engineer. Finally, Ageas said cracking 
could occur for many different reasons, yet our investigator had accepted Mrs Ds engineers 
view that the damage was consistent with subsidence without consideration of its structural 
experts conclusion which was supported by monitoring. 
Our investigator thought about what Ageas said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
He said that he had reviewed both Ageas and Mrs Ds expert reports but because both had 
reached different conclusions about what had caused the damage hed thought about 
whether a third opinion should be obtained; our investigator said he was willing to accept 
that this would be a fair outcome if Ageas would agree to it. But, our investigator said 
undertaking a pressure test seemed reasonable in the circumstances. 
The complaint was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. 
I didnt think that this was a complaint that should be upheld and I made the following 
provisional findings: 
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mrs D, I dont think I can 
reasonably uphold her complaint; Ill explain why. 
Ageas has declined Mrs Ds claim for cracking damage because it says its not been caused 
by subsidence or any other of the insured events listed in her policy. Not all damage a home 
sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage which is caused by one of the 
insured events listed in the policy (fire, theft, flood etc.) is covered. If it can be shown that the 
damage is the result of one of the events listed in the policy then the insurer must pay the 
claim unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. Here Ageas says 
the damage Mrs D reported was not caused by any of the events listed in the policy. I have 
to decide if, taking all the evidence into account, that was a reasonable decision for it to have 
reached. I have to say I think that it was. 
Ageas appointed its structural expert that carried out a number of site visits. In addition it 
carried out some site investigations  a CCTV survey of the drains and a trial pit. Following 
this it carried out crack monitoring and level monitoring over a nine-month period. At the end 
of all its investigations the expert reported its findings to Ageas and also let Mrs D know what 
it had concluded. It said that:
having carried out strength testing, the soil had adequate bearing capacity for the load of 
the building;
a CCTV survey of the drainage system had revealed no defects causing leakage;
the monitoring undertaken confirmed the property was stable;
in the absence of any external influencing cause, and given the stability of the building 
had been established, it could detect no evidence of any subsidence.
So, Ageas confirmed it had found no evidence of subsidence and it did so through a 
combination of site visits, site investigations and monitoring. Having reviewed its reports and 
the monitoring results I agree that the evidence supports the conclusion Ageas reached, 
namely that the damage wasnt the result of subsidence. I accept there was damage but Im 
unable to agree with Mrs D that it was caused by subsidence that was caused by a 
collapsed drain  there is no evidence to support that this was the case. 
Ageas expert gave its opinion as to what had caused the damage namely at first floor level 
thered been a fluctuation of the building fabric as a result of the previous alteration (the 
extension) and also the way the building was constructed. At ground floor level it said there 
was evidence (which is supported by the monitoring results) of very slight thermal 
movement. All materials will experience some thermal movement throughout the year simply 
because of fluctuations in ambient temperatures and the strength of the sun on external 
surfaces. This can cause cracking where there is a large area of plaster or render, especially 
where the underlying material changes. Common places for such damage are at the joins in underlying plasterboard and at junctions of walls and ceilings. This is to be expected and is 
quite normal. The photographs of the ground floor cracks in Mrs Ds experts report support 
this conclusion too. 
I have of course considered the report Mrs D provided from her own construction engineer. 
That report makes no reference to the monitoring undertaken by Ageas and, unfortunately 
for Mrs D, contains conclusions that are unevidenced and unreasoned; I find it unpersuasive. 
The report contains no analysis of the Ageas investigation results, Ageas engineers 
findings nor why they should be disregarded. It states that there is subsidence thats most 
likely caused by leaking drains yet produces no evidence that there are leaking drains. This 
is a speculative suggestion. 
Given the lack of decisive conclusions within Mrs Ds experts report Im unable to 
reasonably ask Ageas to do any more in relation to Mrs Ds claim. I cant fairly rely on an 
expert report that contains no reasoning or analysis to support the findings it purports to 
make; that wouldnt be reasonable. 
Having taken all the circumstances of this complaint into account I think that Mrs Ds claim 
was fairly declined by Ageas on the basis that the damage she claimed for wasnt caused by 
any of the insured events listed in the policy. It follows that this is a complaint that I cant 
fairly uphold.
Ageas accepted my provisional findings and made no further comment. Mrs D replied to say 
that she didnt understand how I couldve reached a different decision to our investigator. 
She also said she was going to speak to her structural engineer and get back to our 
investigator. Having done so she let our investigator know that her engineer had told her that 
because she hadnt carried out his recommendations he could do nothing further for her. 
Mrs D then said she would speak to her son about getting a contractor out to look at the 
damage, see if it could be repaired and, if so, for how much. Our investigator contacted 
Mrs D again a couple of weeks later to see if she had anything further she wanted to say in 
reply to my provisional decision and she said she didnt. Our investigator explained that, in 
any event, even if she did, it would first need to be assessed by Ageas.
The complaint was returned to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is usually the case that at least one of the parties to a dispute (and sometimes both) will be 
disappointed with the outcome of this services investigation into a complaint. Unfortunately 
that is unavoidable. As our investigator has explained to Mrs D, when that happens and a 
complaint is referred to an ombudsman for a decision, the ombudsman will look at it afresh 
and is not bound to follow the conclusion reached by the investigator. The ombudsman will 
issue a provisional decision  as happened with this complaint  to fully explain why he or 
she has reached a different conclusion. The parties are then given the opportunity to provide 
further comment before the final decision is made. 
I do of course appreciate that Mrs D is disappointed that I am not upholding her complaint 
but I have explained why Im unable to do so in full in my provisional decision. Unfortunately 
for Mrs D, nothing she has said in response to my provisional findings causes me to change 
my mind about her complaint. Whilst she may indeed engage a contractor to look at the 
damage and assess the cost of repair, doing so wont alter my view that Ageas decision to 
decline her claim was fairly reached. I say that for two reasons; the first is that there is no evidence that a contractor will identify the cause of damage as something thats covered by 
Mrs Ds policy. The second is that even if the contractor did identify the cause of damage as 
being something that is covered by the policy that is new evidence that would first need to be 
put to Ageas to consider. Only then, if Mrs D was again unhappy with the decision Ageas 
reached about her claim could she complain about that decision. So any evidence from a 
contractor now wouldnt affect the outcome of this complaint. Thats because I can only look 
here at what happened up to the date that Ageas issued its final response letter, which is 
9 August 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman