DRN-1628229
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple. 
Mrs R says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Mrs R opened a store card account in a shop in 1998. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Rs store card 
each month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment. It also 
included some purchase protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs R didn't accept the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R says she doesn't remember a "sale of insurance" when she opened the store 
card account. She says she was just told where to sign. She also says that if she'd 
known that the insurance was optional, she wouldn't have taken it.
 
Ive been provided with a copy of Mrs Rs application form for the store card. It 
includes a section on Account Cover (a form of PPI). Theres a box for the applicant 
to sign specifically if they wanted to take out the cover. It says Only sign this box if 
you require Account Cover. Mrs R has signed the box, indicating that she wished to 
take the cover, in addition to signing the form overall.
 Im satisfied that the way that the PPI was presented on the form made it clear that it 
was optional. Mrs R's representative has suggested that she wouldn't have been 
given time to read the paperwork. But the form was reasonably concise, and I think 
Mrs R could reasonably have been expected to check it over before signing it.  On 
balance, I think Mrs R decided to take the cover, knowing that she didn't have to. 
I think its understandable if shes forgotten this, given that the sale took place more 
than 20 years ago.
 
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs R. So it didn't have to check that it was right 
for her. It was for Mrs R to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what other 
means shed have had of making her store card repayments if she was off sick, or if 
she lost her job. But AXA did have a responsibility to give Mrs R clear enough 
information to enable her to decide whether the policy was suitable for her.
 
I dont know exactly what was said when Mrs R applied for the card and PPI. And I 
accept that its possible the information AXA gave her about the PPI wasn't as clear 
as it should have been. But based on what Mrs R's told us about her circumstances 
at the time, she was eligible for the policy, and she doesn't appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things it didn't cover.
 
I've borne in mind that Mrs R has told us she was self-employed when she took the 
policy out. To get benefits under the unemployment cover, she'd have had to show 
that her business had stopped trading, or was being wound up - but not necessarily 
both. She could claim if she'd stopped trading because her business couldn't find 
enough work. So I'm satisfied that the conditions didn't make it harder for a self-
employed person to claim successfully than for someone who was employed. 
 
I acknowledge that Mrs R's told us that her staff would have continued to run the 
business in her absence if she'd been too ill to work. But even though Mrs R may 
have been able to rely on some income from her business if she'd been unable to 
work, I think it's likely that if she'd been off work for an extended period, it would have 
impacted on the business and on her income. What's more, the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any income Mrs R received from her business if she was 
unable to work. So I think it could have been useful to her at what would have been a 
difficult time.
 
Mrs R's representative has suggested that since she lived at her place of work, she'd 
never have been able to claim successfully under the policy, as she'd always have 
been in her place of work. I don't accept this. Mrs R would have been able to claim 
under the PPI if she'd not been able to work due to accident or sickness. It's trued 
that she'd have had to show that her illness or injury stopped her from helping, 
managing or carrying out the day-to-day running of her business. But again, I don't 
think this made it harder for her to claim than for an employee.
 
So taking everything into account, I don't think the requirements for self-employed 
policyholders were onerous, or that AXA needed to take any special steps to bring 
them to Mrs R's attention.
 Its possible that AXA could have given Mrs R clearer information about the cost of 
the PPI. But Im not convinced this would have affected her decision to take it out. 
Mrs R chose to take out the policy when she didn't have to. So she seems to have 
wanted it at the time, even if shes understandably forgotten this now, so many years 
later. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for her. If she 
didn't use the card a lot, the PPI wouldn't cost her very much. If she did, the 
protection the policy offered could have been helpful to her. The premiums would 
have shown on Mrs R's store card statements. And as she was paying for it monthly, 
she could have cancelled it at any time if her situation changed, or if she decided she 
no longer wanted the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Mrs R off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of 
anything AXA may have done wrong.
 
I've taken all Mrs R's comments into account, including what she's said about not having 
been told about her right to cancel the policy. But I think it's likely that if she'd wanted to 
cancel the PPI, she'd have contacted AXA. I've seen nothing to suggest that she did so. So 
this doesn't change my conclusion.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman