DRN-3758712
The complaint
Mr M complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) failed to process two direct debit 
payments for a hire purchase agreement he took out with them.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr M acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from BMF. 
The cash price of the car was £14,395. Mr M paid a deposit of £1,000 so the total amount 
financed on the agreement was £13,395 payable over 60 monthly repayments of £348.44.
Mr M said he contacted BMF in April 2022 to let them know hed changed his bank account 
details. However, Mr M said the next two payments, for May and June of 2022 were missed 
which caused his agreement to fall into arrears.
Mr M said BMF didnt leave any voice messages for him or send any text messages to 
advise of the missed payments.
Mr M said he received an arrears letter on 7 June 2022, so he contacted BMF who tried to 
arrange a payment plan with him to clear the arrears, but the arrangement was unaffordable 
for him. 
In July 2022 BMF issued their final response to Mr Ms complaint. They didnt uphold it. BMF 
confirmed Mr M contacted them on 5 April 2022 to change his direct debit details. BMF said 
they correctly amended Mr Ms account details and reinstated his direct debit the following 
day. They then received a notification from Mr Ms bank, on 7 April 2022 advising the direct 
debit had been cancelled by the payer. 
BMF confirmed May and Junes payment were missed, but that they made 19 attempts at 
calling Mr M through their automated calling system from 9 May 2022 to 6 June 2022. BMF 
advised they werent able to uphold the complaint, as they believed the direct debit changes 
were correctly applied and they made several attempts at informing Mr M of the missed 
payments.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr M brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr 
M said he wanted BMF to add the missed payments to the end of the agreement and have 
any adverse information removed from his credit file.
Having considered all the information our investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator said they hadnt seen anything that suggested BMF 
acted unfairly in how they handled the arrears on Mr Ms account. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it.
My starting point is that Mr M missed two payments on his agreement during May and June 
of 2022. This is agreed by both parties and confirmed on the statement of account provided 
by BMF. During a phone call with our investigator Mr M explained that hed notified BMF 
about his change in bank details in April 2022 and had confirmation from the bank that the 
direct debit was still active. So, Mr M believes BMF were responsible for the failure of the 
direct debit payments.
BMF said they received a notification from Mr Ms bank which advised the direct debit was 
cancelled by payer. This is also confirmed on BMF system notes. Ive not seen any 
evidence that BMF made an error when they amended Mr Ms bank account details. So, in 
view of the evidence provided, Im not persuaded the cancellation of Mr Ms direct debit 
payment was because of something BMF had done incorrectly.
Mr M said he wasnt happy that BMF didnt notify him of the arrears on his agreement until 
he received the arrears letter from BMF which was after two payments had been missed. Mr 
M initially said he didnt receive an email or phone call about the missed payments.
The consumer credit act 1974 (CCA) is relevant in this case. It says that a notice of sums in 
arrears should be issued where the amount of at least two repayments have been missed. 
BMF issued a notice of sums in arrears letter in July 2022 which followed two missed 
payments. So, Im satisfied they acted fairly by issuing the arrears correspondence, and 
under the CCA, they werent obliged to do so prior to when they did. 
BMF system notes show they contacted Mr M on 19 occasions by telephone. In their final 
response BMF said the calls were made on their dialler system. I acknowledge Mr M says he 
didnt know who the caller was, and that by not leaving a message or trying other ways to 
make contact BMF were at fault. 
I dont think BMF were acting unfairly by using their dialler system for trying to get hold of Mr 
M. I dont think BMF were obliged to use a particular method of contact to inform Mr M of the 
missed payments or leave messages for him. I think its reasonable to say that the 19 call 
attempts made by BMF, over the course of a month, demonstrates a willingness to make 
contact. So, Im satisfied that BMF made reasonable attempts to notify Mr M about his 
missed payments prior to issuing the arrears correspondence.
The terms of the hire purchase agreement say that missed payments will be reported to the 
credit reference agencies. This action is supported in guidance published by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). During a phone call with our investigator Mr M said this had 
impacted his credit rating. Under the ICO guidance, Im satisfied the accurate reporting of arrears is fair and expected, and Ive not seen any evidence that BMF have provided 
incorrect information to the credit reference agencies. So, Im not persuaded that BMF have 
acted unfairly in how theyve reported payment information to Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M told our investigator in July 2022 that he wanted BMF to add the missed payments to 
the end of the agreement which would be more affordable for him. The Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
handbook, says that a business must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
BMF system notes show that in July 2022 a payment arrangement was put in place. BMF 
also offered to accept token payments along with the completion of an income and 
expenditure. Ive not seen any evidence that BMF have been unwilling to support Mr M in the 
repayment of the arrears on his account, and so Im satisfied theyve shown forbearance 
towards Mr M.
As Ive concluded that BMF have acted fairly in the circumstances, I dont require BMF to 
take any action in respect of this complaint. I leave it to Mr M to remain in contact with BMF 
about the repayment of his arrears through a repayment plan that is affordable and suitable 
for him.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Blue Motor Finance Ltd:
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman