DRN-2631032
The complaint
This is a complaint that OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss A.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
How and when Miss A learnt she must take PPI
There are some documents still surviving from the time of the sale. I can see that Miss A 
applied for the mortgage on 17 August 2002. OneSavings made a formal offer of a mortgage 
on 27 January 2003: this said PPI was a requirement of the mortgage and the PPI could only 
be cancelled if the mortgage fell below 90% of Miss As share of the property. And Miss A 
filled in a PPI application shortly afterwards. 
First, I should explain that making PPI a condition of a mortgage doesnt mean it was mis-
sold. As long as the condition was made clear, it could be reasonable for a lender to make 
this requirement.
The question here is whether Miss A was told about the requirement in reasonable time. 
Miss A has said she was told about this compulsory PPI very late on in the process, when 
the application and other arrangements were very advanced, and she felt coerced into 
continuing with the mortgage and the PPI. 
There are some situations like this where it would be unfair to be treated like this. But the 
problem I have is that this happened about 19 years ago; and it wouldnt now be possible to 
make a fair decision on exactly what information was given and at what stage. Nor could I 
fairly decide whether Miss A did have no real choice but to continue with the mortgage and 
PPI; nor what she would have done, if shed been aware of the requirement for PPI much 
earlier on.
The information I am lacking includes the following:
I cant know whether OneSavings mentioned this condition in other literature earlier 
on in the process, or whether it told Miss A earlier but she forgot or didnt understand. 
I also dont know whether Miss A would have acted differently even if it was clear 
earlier that PPI would be part of her costs. She may still have decided to take the 
mortgage, even if shed been told about PPI in August 2002  it may have been that 
she wouldnt have got such a high loan-to-value mortgage elsewhere, or it might 
have been that the deals offered by other lenders, without compulsory PPI, might 
have been at a higher interest rate, and so no cheaper overall. 
I would need reasonable supporting evidence that OneSavings did act wrongly overall, and 
did cause Miss A financial loss. But I cant see that it would be possible to now get that 
evidence. 
Against that lack of evidence, I can see that the mortgage, with the requirement for PPI, was 
technically set out as a choice in the mortgage offer. Miss A would have been able to reject 
the mortgage, and OneSavings would have lost its sale of the mortgage and PPI; although I 
accept this would have had a significant emotional cost, and possibly some lost costs for 
things that couldnt be used with a new lender, if she needed quickly to find an alternative 
lender. 
But I dont have reliable supporting evidence to fairly conclude that OneSavings did fail to tell 
Miss A about the requirement for PPI within a reasonable time. And, even if I did have that 
evidence, I think it would be very difficult to work out what Miss A actually lost: its very 
unlikely there would now be reliable evidence about what other mortgage deals would have 
been available to her, and whether theyd have been more expensive overall. 
So, Ive decided I cant fairly uphold Miss As complaint on this point. 
Other possible points of mis-sale
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
OneSavings didnt recommend the PPI to Miss A as being particularly suited to her individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It did though 
have to give her enough information about the terms of the PPI; and I cant now know how 
well it did that.
In such a situation, I must think about whether fuller information is likely to have affected the 
customers decision significantly. 
As Miss A said she protested about having to take PPI, I think its very likely shed have 
learnt the monthly costs. But its hard to know how well OneSavings explained the main 
benefits of the policy, and what the main restrictions and exclusions would have been set 
out. However, Miss As main reason for taking PPI (under protest) was so that the mortgage 
would be given. And I cant see that additional information about the policy would have made 
it less likely shed go with that decision. I say this because the PPI was at least potentially 
useful to her: the PPI would have paid out on top of any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay, so leaving her in a better financial situation long term. And it doesnt look like the main 
exclusions would have affected her. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman