DRN-3306251
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined 
their claim for damage to their shower tray under their buildings insurance policy and also 
about the quality of service it provided.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S noticed a crack in their shower tray in April 2021 which had got bigger. The 
shower tray had been installed in August 2020. The manufacturer denied responsibility and 
considered that there had been a faulty installation and Mr and Mrs S had been unable to 
get hold of the installer as hed left the area. Mr and Mrs S had a buildings insurance policy 
with RSA at the relevant time and made a claim for the damage in July 2021.
RSA instructed its approved repairer to attend Mr and Mrs Ss home to inspect the damage, 
assess its cause and to attempt to repair the shower tray if possible. The approved repairer 
didnt consider repair to be a feasible solution and thought that it was necessary for a 
replacement to be installed.
RSA invited Mr and Mrs S to instruct a plumber. They did so and their plumber provided a 
quote for work at the end of July 2021. RSA then appointed a surveyor who also attended Mr 
and Mrs Ss home and provided a report in August 2021. The surveyor reported the cause of 
damage to be fatigue crack to shower tray and advised that it wasnt covered by the policy. 
RSA then declined the claim and considered that the crack didnt occur due to a one-off 
incident but had occurred gradually, so it wasnt covered under the policy terms. 
RSA offered Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation in relation to its claims handling, as it 
acknowledged it had raised Mr and Mrs Ss expectations that the policy would cover their 
claim. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with RSAs response, didnt accept the sum of 
compensation and referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that RSA provided a reasonable and 
detailed explanation as to what caused the crack in the shower tray, which was based on the 
evidence. She explained that our service is generally guided by specialists in their field. 
Under the terms of the policy, she said damage which occurred gradually wasnt covered 
and didnt think RSA were unreasonable in declining Mr and Mrs Ss claim.
Our investigator didnt think a crack would suddenly appear when no intervening event had 
happened. She said that if the shower head had been dropped and caused a crack, (as Mr S 
initially mentioned as being a possibility), its likely that the damage would have been visible 
when this happened. She also said that in any event, she wouldn't expect a crack to appear 
if the shower head had fallen onto the shower tray if it was in good condition.
Finally, our investigator thought the £100 compensation adequately recognised any 
inconvenience or disappointment in thinking the claim had been accepted. 
Mr and Mrs S remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the matter has been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider is whether RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
terms and conditions of its insurance policy. I consider that its done so. Ill explain how Ive 
arrived at this final decision.
The starting point for me to consider is the wording of Mr and Mrs Ss buildings insurance 
policy and what it says about accidental damage. It states as follows: -
Accidental Damage Cover
By accidental damage we mean sudden, unexpected and visible damage that wasnt caused 
on purpose There appears to be no dispute in this case that the damage was unexpected 
and visible and that it wasnt caused on purpose. There is however a fundamental dispute as 
to whether the damage was sudden or gradual.
Under the detailed provisions, the RSA booklet includes under the heading of; - What we 
coverAccidental damage to your buildings. The definition of Buildings includes fixtures 
and fittings. This would reasonably be expected to include a shower and shower tray.
Under the heading; - Uninsurable risks the policy references; - Any loss, damage, liability, 
cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from: wear and 
teardeterioration, or anything that happens gradually over a period of time and also, Any 
loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by, or 
resulting from, the followingpoor or faulty design, workmanship or materials. 
RSA doesnt appear to be saying that the damage was due to wear and tear and the shower 
tray was relatively new. It does rely on a view however, that the damage happened gradually 
over a period of time. Again, my decision depends therefore on whether the damage was 
sudden or gradual under the terms of the policy. RSA also doesnt appear to question the 
design of the shower tray or materials. Finally, RSA raises a question around the quality of 
installation and therefore workmanship in relation to installation. I therefore also discuss this 
issue in my decision below.
Ive looked carefully at all the evidence provided by both Mr and Mrs S and RSA, looked at 
all photographic and documentary evidence together with the quotes, responses and reports 
produced by the relevant specialists and listened to relevant telephone recordings. Turning 
first to the evidence provided by RSA, it now bases its conclusions on the findings of the 
surveyor appointed by RSA to look into the claim on its behalf. 
RSAs authorised repairer who first inspected the shower tray, wasnt able to determine the 
cause of damage, and stated;- Unsure why damaged [sic] has happened possibly 
installation of the shower panels as customer has said nothing has been dropped in it.
I note that after RSA heard from its authorised repairer, who said that it wasnt possible to 
repair the damage to Mr and Mrs Ss shower tray, it then understood a replacement would 
be required. RSA therefore wrote to Mr and Mrs S and advised them that to proceed with 
their claim, Mr and Mrs S needed to send one itemised quote from an independent builder. 
RSA gave Mr and Mrs S the detailed requirements and format for such a quote. It said that it 
would need to validate the quote. RSA also made it clear that it may need to appoint its own 
specialist if the claim was more complex or involved significantly greater cost than 
anticipated.Mr and Mrs S then obtained and submitted a quote. In early August 2020, RSA stated it 
needed more information from Mr and Mrs Ss plumber in order to settle their claim. It said it 
had sent him an email requesting the missing information and said that as soon as he got 
back to them with this information, it would proceed with the claim and look to finalise it.
In mid-August 2021, RSAs case-notes showed that it didnt consider that it could disprove 
that the damage was caused by accidental damage. RSA also informed Mrs S that RSA 
could cover this under the accidental damage provisions of their policy and Mrs S was very 
pleased as she felt she had kept going back and forth. The case notes also show that at this 
stage, RSA was clear that it would send Mr and Mrs Ss builders quote to the surveyor to 
validate it and that it would settle depending on the level at which they validated the cost. It 
also said, we know shower trays are not likely to become cracked or damaged over a period 
of time, and damage not consistent with that, would consider claim under [buildings 
accidental damage]. We cant prove a declinature, so would sendto validate and settle.
Nevertheless, RSA stated that it needed to appoint surveyors to validate the claim on its 
behalf. Mrs S called to query the reason for a further visit and RSA explained the need to 
validate the claim as it was now a more complicated matter, and it considered that the quote 
wasnt broken down sufficiently.
RSAs appointed surveyor then attended at Mr and Mrs Ss home. Having inspected the 
damage, the surveyor considered that the damage consisted of a fatigue crack and The 
crack has started from the outer edge making its way to shower waste. The crack has 
occurred gradually and not by accidental damage. The quote has been reviewed and seems 
to be excessive for the works required, The damage is due to poor fitting of the base with 
lack of support.
He said that Mr and Mrs S were unaware of any event where the damage was initiated, but 
that they had noticed a small crack which had got progressively worse. When asked for a 
detailed explanation, the surveyor commented as follows; Unfortunately, some installers do 
not put the correct amount of support under a shower tray. Sometimes trays are supported 
only in the corners just relying on the drain to reinforce the central area. And in this case, it is 
evident that the side of the tray appears to have been incorrectly supported. The lack of 
correct groundwork causes the shower tray to flex and bow when weight is applied. Over a 
matter of months, cracks can slowly appear. Most common areas are around the drain and 
locations in where the flex is the most drastic such as corners and supporting edges. In this 
case, insufficient side support on the outer edge has caused a fatigue crack to form at the 
mid-point on the edge of the tray to the central waste hole, the weakest point where the 
flexing action is greatest. Fatigue cracks are propagated over time in fatigue due to cyclic 
stresses rather than due to a single, large load cycle. Cracking and damage caused by an 
accidental damage event is usually evidenced by an impact point and no such point of 
impact was evident here the position and type of cracking noted is symptomatic of fatigue 
cracking.
Ultimately, RSA therefore changed its stance and accepted its surveyors findings that the 
damage was caused by a fatigue crack and wasnt caused by accidental damage. In its final 
response letter, it stated Im inclined to agree with [the surveyors] opinion. This is because 
you've told us that you dont recall dropping anything in the shower and its likely the tray has 
become weak with it not being flat on the floor and over time this has caused the crack. We 
wouldnt consider this as a one-off incident and sadly were unable to be of any financial 
assistance on this occasion.As to the handling of Mr and Mrs Ss claim, RSA accepted that it had unfortunately raised 
their expectations that RSA was going to accept the claim. It apologised and made an offer 
of a compensation payment of £100 in this respect.
Looking now at Mr and Mrs Ss evidence and submissions, they feel that theyve paid an 
additional premium in relation to accidental damage cover and they consider that the 
damage comes within the policy definition of accidental damage, being sudden, unexpected 
and visible damage which hasn't been caused on purpose.
The possible cause offered by their plumber in his quote is as follows: -The Base the 
shower tray was raised and bedded on will be replaced (this could have been the issue with 
the crack in the tray but can't be sure or faulty product).
Mr and Mrs S also provided a copy of the response from the manufacturer when they first 
referred the matter to the manufacturer in seeking redress. The manufacturer stated that the 
trays were guaranteed for 50 years against manufacturing faults and were robust and 
durable. They said that care should be taken when installing to follow their comprehensive 
fitting instructions. They said that common problems that could cause stress to the tray, and 
consequently result in a crack, included inadequate measures to bed or support the tray or a 
heavy object being dropped onto it.
Mr and Mrs S thought that no-one could see what had caused the crack without taking the 
shower apart. They didnt agree that the shower tray had been badly fitted. They felt that 
RSA had initially accepted the claim and asked for a builders quote, but at the eleventh 
hour, decided against it. Mr and Mrs S said theyd received no courtesy contact and theyd 
had to take follow-up action themselves. They considered that RSAs surveyor hadnt treated 
them in a customer-friendly manner.
Having considered all of the information and submissions, Ive noted that theres some 
contradictory evidence, and I will need to determine what is more likely than not to have 
occurred. The views of specialists as to the possible cause of the damage do differ in some 
respects. The date on which the crack in the shower tray first became noticeable is not 
entirely clear. Also, it was mentioned that the tray could have been damaged by the 
showerhead being dropped, however there is no further available evidence in this respect.
There do nevertheless seem to be some broadly consistent observations by the specialists 
in this case. Mr and Mrs Ss plumber noted a possible issue with the shower tray base. The 
manufacturers list a number of reasons as to why the shower tray might fail and crack, 
including lack of support under the tray or tray edges, so causing the tray to flex. The 
approved repairer and surveyors report conclusions broadly accord with the notion that a 
lack of proper support for the tray was a potential cause of damage. 
I note the manufacturers mention of a possible cause for the damage being the dropping of 
a heavy object. On the balance of probabilities, however, and in the light of the specialist 
findings, I consider the most likely cause of the damage to have been due to faulty 
installation, which led to a fatigue crack. This is likely to have worsened gradually over the 
course of the year since the installation of the shower. I consider it unlikely that the damage 
will have been caused by a single blow from a dropped showerhead, particularly in view of 
the manufacturers evidence regarding robustness of materials used.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss position that, in the absence of a detailed inspection and strip-
out of the existing shower tray, the cause of the damage cannot be conclusively proved. In 
the absence of such categoric evidence however, I must reach my finding on the balance of probabilities. I therefore conclude that the damage was, more likely than not, caused by the 
manner of installation of the shower tray and lack of support for the tray from beneath.
The key question which remains to be answered however is whether the damage amounted 
to accidental damage within the policy definitions, regardless of the precise reasons for that 
damage.
I particularly note RSAs initial view that shower trays arent likely to become cracked or 
damaged over a period of time. Mr and Mrs S have confirmed that the crack has gradually 
got bigger. RSAs surveyor has also confirmed that the damage consisted of a fatigue crack 
which would have appeared gradually.
To look again at the definition wording, although there isnt a dispute that the damage was; -
unexpected and visible damage that wasnt caused on purpose the remaining matter for 
determination is whether the damage was also sudden. In the light of all the evidence, Im 
not satisfied that the damage occurred by virtue of a sudden event. A fatigue crack implies 
damage which grows until it reaches a critical point, and which ultimately leads to complete 
fracture. Having considered all the evidence, I consider it more likely than not that the 
damage arose from faulty installation and that the damage became visible and worsened 
over a period of time and didnt therefore consist of sudden damage.
In addition, the policy states that the uninsurable risks under the policy include 
circumstances where there was poor or faulty workmanship and this has been identified as a 
possible or likely cause of the damage in this instance by all the specialists that have been 
involved in this case.
In conclusion, having considered the terms and conditions of the policy in the light of all the 
evidence, I dont think RSA acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in declining the claim. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S think the claim should be covered under the heading of 
accidental damage, however unfortunately, I conclude that its more likely than not that the 
damage doesnt meet the wording of the policy definition.
I also note that RSA acknowledged its failings in originally leading Mr and Mrs S to believe 
that it would meet their claim and in giving them false hope. Nevertheless, RSA has offered 
compensation on the sum of £100 to acknowledge its mistake and I understand that this 
offer remains available. So, I dont think RSA needs to do anything else in all the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about this matter and will have been placed at 
considerable expense and inconvenience due to the damage to their shower tray. I greatly 
sympathise with their predicament. Unfortunately, however, I cant say that this damage was 
caused by a factor which is covered under Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy and I cant say 
that RSA is responsible for the resulting costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and I dont 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do any more in response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman