DRN-4342813
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Skerritt Consultant 
Limited, referred to as Skerritt or the business. 
In summary, she says: 
Skerritt was wrong to advise her to move her ISA from its existing home to a new 
provider. 
It was done so on the false premise that shed make money, but she was exposed to 
more risk than she agreed to. 
To put thing right, shed like compensation for the gains she wouldve otherwise made by 
staying with his previous provider. 
What happened
In 2017, Mrs S was advised to transfer her ISA over to a new provider. I understand that this 
was done so, in the hope that shed make better returns. 
At the time she was in his early 50s, married and in full time employment. She owned her 
own home too, without an outstanding mortgage. She also held £37,000 in joint savings, 
£5,500 in a cash ISA and £20,183, in a Stocks and Shares ISA managed by the previous 
provider. 
Mrs Ss attitude to risk was assessed as eight out of ten, and she was viewed as a medium 
to high-risk investor. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Our service is unable to consider a complaint about complaints handling because 
its not a regulated activity, even though Skerritt is. Therefore, its not something our 
service can look at. 
Poor performance alone isnt a basis upon which to uphold a complaint. Despite what 
Mrs S says our service wouldnt ask for a comparison of her old and new ISA 
providers as a basis to uphold (or reject) the complaint. 
Performance of the overall portfolio is dependent on external factors  including the 
management discretion of fund managers  so its not something that our service 
would consider or blame Skerritt for. 
As the account was operated on a discretionary basis, its not for us to investigate 
each (subjective) decision taken by the fund manager regarding the portfolio, and 
certainly not do so with the benefit of hindsight. 
Its impossible to know for sure how things were likely to turn out. Recommendations 
dont always work, and unless a guarantee is given theres not always a recourse if 
the recommendation doesnt succeed. 
The judgement of one manager cant be (fairly) compared to another, that wouldnt 
be a fair comparison given the subjective decisions each will make. 
In this instance, Mrs S was advised to move her ISA so that it could also be managed 
on a discretionary basis. This meant there was no new injection of cash into the ISA, 
instead it involved transferring funds already invested elsewhere. 
The charges for the advice/investment were made clear. It was also made 
reasonably clear to Mrs S that the value of her investment could fluctuate. So, whilst 
the aim of the advice was to achieve potential growth (in the long term) this wasnt 
guaranteed. 
Annual reviews took place on a regular basis and her ATR was re-assessed at 
regular intervals. She was also kept in touch by the business using the contact 
details that she (and her husband) had provided. 
Overall, and on balance, the advice was suitable in the circumstances. 
In 2021, she topped up her ISA although a suitability report wasnt produced her 
circumstances hadnt materially changed. 
Based on the fact find dated August 2022, it seems Mrs D continued to maintain joint 
savings of £35,000 and her joint monthly disposable income was around £2,000, 
indicating that she also had capacity for loss. 
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
She understood that the investment was a risk-based investment and that no 
guarantees were given. However, Skerritts claims about how the investment would 
grow were based on false information. 
She paid Skerritt (and the new provider) fees to make any changes necessary to 
make his investment grow, but they were both happy to let it flatline. They knew the 
benchmarks but didnt do what they were told. 
She was happy to pay more in charges for Skerritt to do what it was supposed to  
change to better funds  but it didnt. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs S says, Im unable to safely 
say that Skerritt behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ss strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs S and Skerritt, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
I agree with the investigator that service complaints arent regulated, therefore this 
isnt something that our service would generally consider. 
I also agree that complaints about investment performance alone are not something 
that wed consider, and therefore this isnt something that I can look into (in isolation) 
in this instance. 
Investment performance is dependent on the financial markets, and not something 
that a business can predict or control, therefore its not something that I can blame 
Skerritt for. 
An investment not making a positive return, doesnt of itself mean that the advice was 
unsuitable. I appreciate Mrs S was advised to transfer her ISA, in the hope that shed 
make a better return however no guarantees were given. In the circumstances and 
on balance, I cant say that she was told or led to believe that shed make a 
particular/specific return on her investment. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
advice wasnt given in good faith. 
I appreciate that shed hoped for better returns, but the fact that she didnt get that  
compared to her previous ISA  doesnt mean the advice was wrong, because there 
were no guarantees.  
I note Mrs S says that she was advised to take more risk than she was willing to take, 
but on balance I dont agree  based on what Skerritt says, it seems the fund was 
lower risk than her ATR. In any case, and on balance, Im also satisfied that she was 
content with a higher ATR and was potentially prepared to take a greater risk.     
Its arguable that a greater level of risk was inevitable, if the investor wanted the 
potential for higher returns, and may explain why Mrs S agreed to the (higher) ATR at 
the time. Given her circumstances as set out above, I cant say that Skerritt did 
anything wrong. In other words, I cant say  based on her circumstances and 
assessment by Skerritt that a medium to high ATR (for this portion of her money) 
was unsuitable.   
I note what Mrs S says about the advice, but I cant agree that this was based on 
false information. I note she thinks Skerritt shouldve forensically checked the 
product, but I dont think thats practicable and not what a business is expected to do 
in these circumstances. So, Skerritt hasnt behaved unreasonably by not doing so. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the 
recommendation didnt meet her long-term objective for growth  there was nothing 
to suggest that it wouldnt. 
Just because five/six years or so in, it didnt provide as much return as Mrs S 
wouldve liked, doesnt mean that Skerritt has done anything wrong. I note Skerritt 
has pointed out numerous other advantages, including Mrs Ss pension and ISA 
being held in the same place, which Im aware can be very convenient.  
Im mindful that following a financial review in 2020, Mrs S was found to be a six out 
of ten in terms of his ATR, which had reduced by two positions. But this doesnt of 
itself mean that the 2017 ATR assessment was wrong, because it was roughly three 
years since her investment and her circumstances may have changed a little. In any case, based on what Skerritt says, I note Mrs S was advised to invest in the 
VT Esprit Tactical Growth Fund  designed for long term growth  which was lower 
risk than his ATR. Given that she was broadly close to retirement, I cant say that the 
advice to invest in this fund was unreasonable.  
I note that Mrs Ss finances were subsequently reviewed again in spring 2021, her 
ATR had remained six out of ten  I note according to Skerritt it wasnt necessary to 
deviate from the original advice. The 2017 advice was given with a longer-term 
horizon in mind and may explain why she wasnt advised to make any changes, and 
why she invested additional sums.  
I appreciate that Mrs S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, I cant safely say that Skerritt provided unsuitable advice.
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman