DRN-3850743
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has recorded adverse 
information on his credit file as a result of arrears on a mortgage he says he was not liable 
for. He would like any negative information removed.
What happened
Following a relationship breakdown, Mr K moved out of the home he shared with his ex-
partner and with whom he had a joint mortgage. Subsequently, there were periods of time 
when the full contractual monthly payment was not made on the mortgage, and so it fell into 
arrears. Mr K is unhappy that, despite him not having lived in the property for some years, 
NatWest has reported adverse information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). The 
mortgage was finally redeemed in 2021.
As the result of a Family Court Order from August 2017, in which it states that Mr Ks ex-
partner was solely responsible for the mortgage, he believes it is unfair for NatWest to have 
recorded the information about the arrears on his profile. He complained, but NatWest said 
that as he was joint and severally liable for the mortgage account, and it had a duty to report 
accurate information about that account to the CRAs, it had done nothing wrong in doing so.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr K came to this service. Having reviewed the 
evidence, the investigator thought that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong, so didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr K doesnt accept that and asked an Ombudsman to look at his 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
In essence, the question I have to address in this decision is this: was it unfair or 
unreasonable of NatWest to have registered the adverse information about the mortgage 
arrears against Mr Ks credit file?
Mr K understands that, technically, he was joint and severally liable for the mortgage 
account until it ended in 2021. But he says that its unfair to hold him liable for it due to the 
Family Court Order from August 2017. He has also highlighted a previous decision issued 
by our service which found that, on the basis of the Court Order, it was fair for NatWest to 
treat him differently from his ex-partner.
Firstly, its important for me to set out that each complaint brought to this service is 
considered on its own merits, and this case is focused on a separate set of issues to those 
previously dealt with. Additionally, each Ombudsman statutorily has both the right and the 
responsibility to reach and explain his or her own findings, unfettered. So I am unable to 
comment on my colleagues findings or reasoning, but will of course set out my own.
The fact that the terms and conditions of the mortgage set out that, in the case of a joint 
mortgage, both borrowers are joint and severally liable for the debt is not in dispute. And 
as I understand it, Mr K also accepts that lenders have a duty to report accurate 
information about that status of accounts to the CRAs. Rather, he believes that, in this 
instance, it is unfair to treat him as liable for the mortgage account as a result of the 
directions of the Family Court.
The Court Order at the heart of Mr Ks complaint states that Mr Ks ex-partner will, be 
solely responsible for and in any event indemnify [Mr K] against all futurerepayments 
due in respect of the mortgage;.
However, the Order issues no instructions to NatWest (nor would I expect a Family Court 
Order to do so) and deals solely with issues between Mr K and his ex-partner. Not been 
either of them and NatWest. Mr Ks removal from the mortgage was complicated and 
protracted, but the Court Order provides no basis on which NatWest would be required not 
to continue to hold Mr K joint and severally liable for it until his removal was complete.
On that basis, I cannot conclude that it was either unfair or unreasonable for NatWest to 
record the adverse information about mortgage arrears on Mr Ks credit file. So I cannot 
direct it to remove that information. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and NatWest doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman