DRN-3038994
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Jaja Finance Ltd (Jaja) increased the rates of interest on his account 
without adequate prior notice.
What happened
Mr R raised a complaint with Jaja on the basis that he wasnt notified in advance by Jaja that 
the interest rates on his account were going to be increased. Jaja looked at Mr Rs 
complaint. They issued a complaint response letter to Mr R which informed Mr R that his 
complaint was being upheld but which didnt offer any reimbursement of interest or 
compensation to Mr R. 
 
When Mr R questioned Jaja about this, Jaja advised that the statement that Mr Rs complaint 
was being upheld was a mistake, and that Jaja hadnt upheld his complaint because they 
didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that while the letter that Jaja had 
sent to Mr R did say that his complaint was being upheld, it should have been evident from 
the further content of that letter that Jajas statement to that effect was a mistake. 
Additionally, our investigator also noted that it appeared from Mr Rs statements that Jaja 
hadnt charged Mr R the higher rates of interest that theyd said they were going to. Because 
of these points, our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld.
Mr R wasnt happy with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr R to have been told by Jaja that 
they were upholding his complaint, only to then discover that the opposite was true.
Mr R has stated that his understanding when applying for the credit account was that 
purchases made on the card attracted a 0% interest rate indefinitely. However, the Credit 
Card Agreement provided to this service confirms that the rate of interest for purchases was 
0% for the promotional period only  which was for the first eight months of the agreement  
after which time the rate of interest increases to the standard rate of interest, which for 
purchases is 22.9% per annum.
Promotional rates of low or zero interest are a common feature of credit accounts, but Im 
not aware of any credit accounts that offer a zero rate of interest indefinitely. As such, and in 
consideration of the explanation of interest rates on the Credit Card Agreement as explained 
above, I can only conclude that if Mr R was under the impression that the rate of interest on 
purchases would remain at 0% indefinitely on this credit account, that he was under this 
impression incorrectly.
Its also notable that the promotional offer of 0% interest lasted far longer than the first eight 
months of the agreement and was in fact maintained on Mr Rs account for 28 months. This 
means that Mr R benefited from the promotional rate of interest for far longer than was 
originally agreed. 
Mr R has also stated that has never informed that his promotional rate of interest was 
ending. But even considering that it was explained to Mr R on his Credit Card Agreement 
that the promotional rate of interest on purchases was for the first eight months of the 
agreement only, its clear that Mr R was also sent advance notification that the promotional 
rate of 0% interest was being withdrawn closer to the date that it was withdrawn. And I say 
this because a notice that the promotional rate of interest would expire in October 2020 was 
included on the August 2020 statement which was sent to Mr Rs address.
Jaja have also been able to evidence that a letter was sent to Mr R in September 2020 
which also confirmed to Mr R that the promotional rate of interest for purchases would expire 
in October 2020, and as such Im satisfied that Mr R was provided with fair and reasonable 
notice that the 0% interest rate on his credit account was scheduled to expire.
As such, in consideration of everything that Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Jaja didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr R by withdrawing the promotional rate of 0% interest 
on purchases from Mr Rs account. However, Mr R also feels that Jaja charged higher rates 
of interest than they should have charged, following the withdrawal of the 0% interest rate, 
and is also unhappy that Jaja didnt reimburse applicable interest or offer compensation to 
him after informing him that they were upholding his complaint.
These aspects of Mr Rs complaint stem from the complaint response letter issued by Jaja 
which, as well as incorrectly informing Mr R that they were upholding his complaint, listed the 
interest rates that were being applied to Mr Rs account as being 22.9% for purchases and 
for balance transfers, and 27.9% for cash withdrawals.
Ive once again reviewed Mr Rs Credit Card Agreement and I can see that the rates of 
interest quoted by Jaja are the rates of interest quoted on Mr Rs Credit Card Agreement.
However, its evident from Mr Rs account statements that his account is attracting interest at 
rates of interest that are lower than those to which he agreed when first taking the credit 
account. And, while I can appreciate how this might be confusing for Mr R, I cant conclude 
that hes incurred any material financial detriment, given that hes paying interest on his 
credit account at lower rates than what was initially agreed. I would strongly encourage Jaja 
at this point to confirm the rates of interest its applying to Mr Rs account to Mr R, so that 
theres no ongoing confusion moving forwards.
Finally, while I can appreciate that Mr R is unhappy with Jajas complaint response letter, 
which included the statement that Jaja were upholding his complaint when in fact the 
opposite was true, this isnt an aspect of Mr Rs complaint that its within the remit of this 
service to consider.
I say this because this service cant consider complaints about how a business has handled 
a complaint  such as this aspect of Mr Rs complaint is  and this is because how a 
business handles a complaint isnt a regulated financial activity as defined by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), whose handbook defines the remit of what this service is permitted 
to consider.However, while I can appreciate that Mr R might be frustrated that this aspect of his 
complaint cant be considered, I remain satisfied, based on what Ive explained above - and 
given that Mr R has benefitted from a promotional rate of interest for longer than was 
agreed, and from rates of account interest that were lower than was agreed - that Mr R 
hasnt incurred any form of financial detriment such that compensation or reimbursement 
would be warranted in this instance. As such, my final decision here is that I will not be 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final deciison is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman