DRN-3686071
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as Scottish Provident, referred to as the business.
In short, theyre unhappy that the business refused a claim despite them paying towards a 
policy. They are also unhappy about the redress offered by the business  they dont think it 
accurately reflects the mistake made by the business.  
What happened
Mr V tried to make a claim on his life insurance policy, following a heart attack, but the 
business rejected the claim. It said that the policy didnt belong to him, despite him paying 
towards it. Unfortunately, the policy that did belong to him (and Mrs V)  under which this 
complaint is being made  lapsed in 2006 for lack of payment of premiums. 
In due course Mr V complained to the business. In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 
June 2022, the business upheld the complaint. It said that since 2003 it had been mistakenly 
collecting premiums for a policy (referred to as the 2003 policy) that didnt belong to him. 
It also said that in May 2022 it had already refunded the premiums collected  with 8% 
simple interest  plus £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. It 
doesnt accept that its responsible for Mr and Mrs V cancelling their policy (or allowing it to 
lapse) in the belief that they had a policy in place, because they did of their own volition and 
without consulting the business. 
Unhappy with the businesss response, Mr V referred the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
he said:
The business accepts that it made an error by taking premiums for a policy that didnt 
belong to Mr V. As a result, it refunded all the premiums, with 8% simple interest, and 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. So, Mr V was put 
back in the position they wouldve been if the premiums hadnt been (mistakenly) 
taken in the first instance. 
In 2006, Mr (and Mrs V) chose to cancel their own policy without consulting the 
business. But they continued paying for the wrong policy. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, they ought reasonably to have noticed (the 
additional) payments being made and raised concerns about it with the business. If 
they had done so, the error wouldve been rectified, and they couldve reinstated their 
policy if thats what they wanted.  
Even if the (2003) policy belonged to Mr V it was still due to end in 2018, so he 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim in any event.  
Despite what Mr V says about taking out a new policy  once theirs ended  the 
(2003) policy documentation shows that it still wouldve ended in 2018.
Although the premiums were (mistakenly) collected, theres no evidence that these 
were paid towards a policy that belonged to Mr V.  
Mr V disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres 
been much correspondence between him and the investigator, but in summary, he said:
He doesnt feel like hes been put back in the position he wouldve been in but for the 
error. 
Despite what the investigator says, he doesnt agree that he shouldve investigated 
the unexpected payment  as it wasnt so unexpected to be paying for life cover that 
he thought was his. 
He doesnt remember deciding to allow their policy to lapse. 
Hes seen no evidence that they were written to.    
He wouldve taken out another policy in 2018, because it was a requirement of their 
mortgage provider. 
Too much has been made of what they (purportedly) did wrong. 
If one of them should die, the business should pay out the sum assured. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Despite the policy in question not being in Mr Vs name it wouldve ended in 2018 in 
any event. So, even if the policy had remained in place, it wouldve ended by the time 
a claim was raised. 
Although Mr V says he/they definitely wouldve taken out a further policy once theirs 
ended in 2018, they didnt. So, despite what they say, hes not convinced that they 
wouldve.  
In this instance the business has returned the premiums with 8% simple interest, 
along with £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, which is 
fair and reasonable. 
Despite the error, the business has acted in line with our services expectations. 
The business has done nothing wrong by refusing a claim for a policy that wasnt 
valid. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and on balance, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the 
same reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Because the business accepts that it made a mistake  by collecting premiums that it 
shouldnt have  the key issue for me to consider is redress and whether or not its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, and on balance, I think the redress paid 
by the business  comprised of a refund of all the premiums, with 8% simple interest, and 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
For the record, I also dont think the business was wrong to refuse a claim for a policy that 
wasnt in Mr Vs name, despite him paying towards it for a number of years. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr V has about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr V, and the business, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  
Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
I note that the business made a mistake which it accepts, but this doesnt mean that Mr V is 
now entitled  in the event of a claim  to the sum assured. Even though the business 
(mistakenly) collected premiums for a number of years, the policy did not belong to Mr V 
therefore he cant make a claim against it. Despite what he says, I dont think this conclusion 
is unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate Mr V thought he was paying towards a policy that was in his name, but Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that he was told this/led to believe that this was the case by the business. 
So, despite what he thought, the policy wasnt his, or in his name, so theres no mechanism 
by which he could make a valid claim. In other words, and on balance, he wasnt entitled to 
any pay out  and I cant say that the business did anything wrong by refusing to uphold a 
claim in respect of a policy that wasnt valid for him. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think a refund of all the premiums  with 8% interest 
 puts him in the position he wouldve been in but or the error. In other words, had he not 
been paying for a policy that didnt belong to him, and being deprived of the money he paid. 
I also think the £200 compensation paid in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused 
is fair and reasonable, and broadly reflects the distress he wouldve experienced after the 
claim was refused, and the error came to light. Im mindful that he wasnt aware of there 
being any issue all the years that hes been paying towards the policy.  
I note Mr and Mrs V cancelled their policy in 2006, because they thought they had cover in 
place at the time. But they didnt confirm their belief with the business before deciding to 
cancel the policy  instead they did so, of their own volition, without seeking any advice or 
guidance from the business. This might explain why the investigator thought that if they had, 
before taking any action, the error mightve come to light sooner and they wouldve had the 
option to continue their 2006 policy if they still wanted to.  
Despite what Mr V says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business confirmed that the 
premiums collected  post cancellation of their policy  were going towards a new policy in 
his name. Despite what Mr V says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was told this by the 
business. 
The above notwithstanding, I note that the 2003 policy was for a term of 15 years, so even if 
it had been in Mr Vs name (which it isnt), and hed been paying towards it, the policy still 
wouldve ended in 2018. Therefore, and on balance, I think its unlikely in any event that he 
wouldve had a valid policy in place at the time, and to make a claim against. So even if the policy had been his and hed been paying towards it, he was unlikely to have received a pay 
out in respect of a policy that didnt exist. 
I note Mr V says that in 2018 he wouldve taken out a new policy, suggesting that he 
wouldve had a policy to claim against, and that somehow the business is to blame for this. 
But despite what he says about it being a condition, I note that he didnt take out a new 
policy in 2018, and therefore, and on balance, was unlikely to. Ive seen nothing that 
wouldve stopped him from doing so if thats what he wanted to do. 
I appreciate Mr V (and Mrs V) will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. 
I note they believe that the business should pay the sum in relation to Mr Vs claim in respect 
of the policy in question, but I dont agree. Whilst I appreciate their deep frustration and 
anguish, in light of what the business has already paid, Im not going to ask the business to 
do anything further.   
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs V say, Im 
unable to give them what they want.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman