DRN-3392536
The complaint
Miss M through a representative complains that Skyline Direct Limited (Skyline) provided her 
with loans she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss M took 12 home collected loans between February 2018 and April 2021. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £150.00 06/02/2018 17/04/2018 20 £10.50
2 £300.00 17/04/2018 19/07/2018 20 £21.00
3 £400.00 07/08/2018 23/10/2018 20 £28.00
4 £600.00 23/10/2018 15/01/2019 20 £42.00
5 £700.00 15/01/2019 23/04/2019 20 £49.00
6 £700.00 23/04/2019 30/07/2019 20 £49.00
7 £800.00 30/07/2019 29/10/2019 30 £40.00
8 £900.00 29/10/2019 11/02/2020 30 £45.00
9 £1,000.00 11/02/2020 16/06/2020 30 £50.00
10 £1,000.00 16/06/2020 14/10/2020 30 £50.00
11 £1,000.00 13/10/2020 03/03/2021 30 £50.00
12 £500.00 13/04/2021 outstanding 20 £35.00
Following Miss Ms complaint Skyline issued its final response letter in June 2021. Skyline 
outlined the checks that it said it carried out during the lending relationship. But it went on to 
say that Skyline wouldnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss Ms representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed Miss Ms complaint and he partially upheld it. He hadnt seen 
enough to say that it was incorrect of Skyline to have advanced loans 1 - 5. But he thought 
from loan six onwards the lending was now harmful for Miss M so he upheld the complaint 
about loans 6  12.  
Neither Miss M nor her representative acknowledged receipt of the assessment.
Skyline disagreed with the adjudicators assessment  in part. Having thought about the 
comments the adjudicator made, Skyline did agree to uphold the complaint about loans 6  
8. 
However, it didnt think loans 9  12 should be upheld, it said the following;
There was a six-week gap between loans 11 and 12. 
The checks carried out met the standard set by the regulator.
Miss M had enough disposable income to afford repayments even considering her 
credit commitments. 
Loans 9  12 were assessed under a new process which included and showed:
The credit check showed no risk of issuing credit.
The credit commitments were included in the expenditure information.
A weekly buffer was added to the expenditure to cover unplanned costs. 
Evidence of Miss Ms income was gathered. 
The adjudicator went back to Skyline to explain why the points it had raised hadnt changed 
his mind about the outcome of Miss Ms complaint. 
Skyline responded with some further comments for consideration. Ive summarised these 
below;
As Skyline isnt a payday lender, then it considers a gap of over four weeks is seen 
as a break in lending. 
Skylines understanding is as long as the loan is affordable and sustainable then 
there is no issue with the number of loans granted. 
The industry regulator hasnt raised any concerns with its lending practices. 
Skyline has asked for further information and evidence for the triggers that the 
Financial Ombudsman applies. 
Skyline wants some further guidance as to what further checks it ought to have 
carried out.
Skyline is concerned that if it stopped lending after a certain number of loans this 
could result is customers not being able to access credit to cover unexpected costs. 
Miss M benefited from the credit Skyline provided. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither Miss M nor her representative appears to disagree with our adjudicators findings 
about loans 1 - 5. So, I no longer think this lending is in dispute, and I no longer need to 
make a finding about them.  But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the 
overall lending relationship between Skyline and Miss M.  
Skyline has also accepted that something went wrong when loans 6 - 8 were granted, and it 
offered to put things right for Miss M following the adjudicators assessment.
So, like the loans the adjudicator didnt uphold, these loans are no longer in dispute, but for 
completeness Ive included what Skyline needs to do to put things right in the putting things 
right section at the end of the decision. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Skyline did anything wrong when it granted loans 
9 - 12. 
Before each loan application Skyline had to assess the lending to check if Miss M could 
afford to pay back the amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Skylines checks couldve taken into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments, and Miss Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Skyline should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M.
Skyline was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint.
Loans 9 - 12
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration that Skyline 
needed to consider. So, I havent felt the need to recreate individual, proportionate 
affordability checks for these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. 
I do accept that based on the information that Skyline gathered for these loans they wouldve 
looked affordable to it. And for loans 10  12 it is also clear that a new process was being 
followed by Skyline. 
For loans 10  12 Skyline has provided a detailed income and expenditure table, some 
screen shots of Miss Ms bank statements and then a summary of the credit checks that 
were carried out. Again, these checks showed it that Miss M was going to be in a position to 
afford the repayments that she was committed to making. 
But even then, Id still argue that for the checks for these loans werent proportionate. Taking 
into account the time in debt, amounts being borrowed and the fact that Miss M was only 
repaying these loans early by refinancing them. So, while Skyline had some screen shots of Miss Ms income (which it has provided) I think it 
needed to have been checking both her income and her regular outgoings. Skyline didnt do 
this, so the checks werent good enough. 
But Skyline also needed to consider what had gone on in the lending relationship and to 
consider whether the loans were sustainable so her ability to make the repayments as they 
feel due under the agreements.  
I appreciate that Skyline, in the final response letter and in the information provided to the 
Financial Ombudsman, has pointed out that there is a six week gap between Miss M 
repaying loan 11 and being advanced loan 12. But Im not persuaded that this gap 
materially changes the outcome of the complaint.  
Ive considered this gap, but, in this case, it wouldnt change my mind about whether those 
loans are upheld. This is because prior to this gap, there seems to have been an unbroken 
chain of lending of over three years. So, I cant fairly say that a break of around six weeks is 
sufficient to think that either loan 12 is the start of a new lending relationship or was a sign 
that the final two loans were now sustainable for her. 
The gap isnt in my mind sufficiently large to show that Miss M no longer needed regular 
access to credit and therefore, on balance, Im still going to conclude, that this loan was 
harmful. 
But that doesnt mean in another case, when different circumstance apply that a gap of that 
length may or may not lead us to conclude that there is a new chain of borrowing and or the 
loan(s) that followed the gap werent sustainable. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Miss M, Skyline also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Miss M. 
This means, I havent recreated individual checks, this is because, in addition to assessing 
the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Miss M, Skyline needed to have 
regard to the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during the course of its lending 
relationship with Miss M. 
Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance made it clear that a lender shouldnt 
continue lending where the loans were unsustainable or otherwise harmful and / or it was 
apparent that the customer may be experiencing financial difficulties. 
It seemed to me that there may come a point at which a responsible lender ought fairly and 
reasonably to have realised that continuing to offer further lending, to a customer who 
appeared to be persistently and repeatedly reliant upon them was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
Having looked at the overall pattern of Skylines lending history with Miss M, I agree with our 
adjudicator that this point was reached at loan six, but as Skyline has already agreed to 
uphold these loans, Ive considered whether the overall ending pattern by loan nine was still 
harmful and so Skyline should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. I say this because;
By loan 9, Skyline ought to have realised Miss M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss M had been indebted to Skyline for two years. So, two years 
after she started borrowing, with a relatively small loan, shed been given a further 
eight loans. Miss M started off with a loan of £150 and then she continued to borrow taking ever increasing loans. Loan 9 was her largest loan to date. This pattern in my 
view isnt of someone who is able to manage their money, given how quickly they are 
returning for borrowing. 
I accept that Miss Ms repayment history may have appeared good (in terms of 
absence of arrears). But the fact that she had taken a number of loans fairly quickly 
after the previous one was repaid, coupled with the fact that the loan amounts (and 
therefore the monthly commitments) were increasing her overall indebtedness, 
supports my view that Miss Ms indebtedness was unsustainable.
I also think that it ought to have been apparent to Skyline that Miss M was unlikely to 
have been using these loans as a useful means of managing any shortfalls she was 
having  after all she was regularly borrowing. Which would suggest it wasnt a short-
term shortfall but a longer-term need. Especially as the loan amounts and total 
repayments werent decreasing in any meaningful way over the life of Miss Ms 
borrowing from Skyline. 
Miss Ms first loan was for £150 and loan 9 was for £1,000. With her weekly 
commitment increasing from £10.50 per week to £50 per week a near 5 times 
increase. This to me shows that Miss M wasnt reducing her indebtedness with 
Skyline and so, although she was repaying loans in line with the credit agreements, 
she wasnt actually making any headway into reducing her overall capital balance  
because she continued to take further lending. 
At this point Skyline ought to have thought it was more likely than not that Miss M 
had an ongoing need for this type of credit and was dependent on it. By loan 9, I 
dont think it was reasonable for Skyline to carry on assuming that Miss M was using 
this borrowing as a means of managing her finances.
Miss M normally took new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid. 
Indeed, Skyline has confirmed when this happens the loans were refinanced, so in 
effect Miss M was borrowing new money in order to clear her outstanding loan. 
Skyline ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss M, on these 
occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial 
need. To me, this is indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable.
Miss M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Skyline. While her 
final loan was smaller than some of her previous loans it was still larger than her first 
three. Loan 12 was taken out over three years after loan one and Miss M had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Skyline over an extended 
period
So, in addition to Skylines offer to settle loans 6  8 I also think it was wrong to have 
approved loans 9  12. I think that Miss M has lost out because Skyline provided her lending 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 6  12 and Ive outlined below 
what Skyline needs to do in order to put things right for Miss M. 
Ive considered what Skyline says about the industry regulator not raising any concerns with 
the affordability assessment it carries out. But Im considering what has happened in this 
individual case, and Ive not seen anything to suggest that the regulator has considered the 
individual circumstances of this case. So, in this case, what the regular may or may not have said to Skyline is in my view not relevant when considering Skylines obligations to Miss M 
and what unfolded during the lending relationship. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Skyline should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent from loan six, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Skylines liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Skyline shouldnt have given Miss M loans 6 - 12.
If Skyline has sold the outstanding balance it should buy it back if it is able to do so. If 
Skyline cant buy it back, then it should liaise with the debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below. 
A.  Skyline should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Skyline have already refunded.
B. Skyline should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Skyline should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Miss M 
having made overpayments then Skyline should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Skyline should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss M. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Skyline should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss M. Skyline shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
Skyline have already written-off.
E. The overall pattern of Miss Ms borrowing for loans 6- 12 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Skyline should remove these loans entirely from Miss Ms credit file. Skyline does not have to remove loan 12 from Miss Ms credit 
file until it has been repaid, but Skyline should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyline to deduct tax from this interest. Skyline should 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint in part. 
Skyline Direct Limited should put things right for Miss M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman