DRN-4048666
The complaint
Mr S complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLCs (Tesco PF) refusal to meet his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr S booked a package holiday for himself and his wife. The holiday was for three weeks. 
Mr S booked the holiday from a supplier that I will to refer to as V. Mr S used his Tesco PF 
credit card in part to pay for the holiday. The package holiday included a fully inclusive stay 
at a hotel resort, flights and transfers.
Mr S booked the holiday with the intention of diving to see specific sea creatures. Before he 
booked the holiday he checked on Vs website and on the hotel resorts website to make 
sure that these specific diving facilities were available. What he saw on both websites 
satisfied him on this point, so he booked.
When Mr S arrived at the hotel resort he was disappointed to find that the specific dives that 
he wanted to do were unavailable. Rather, alternative dives were available, which he took. 
But these dives were only available for part of his stay which further disappointed him as he 
had intended to dive during most of his holiday. Mr Ss stance is that V is the agent of the 
hotel resort. Further, both V and the hotel resort represented that diving was available. 
Moreover, the hotel resort represented the specific type of diving. he wanted to do would be 
available, but it wasnt. But for these representations he would not have booked the holiday.
Mr S complained to V, but Mr S was dissatisfied with its response. Therefore, Mr S 
complained to Tesco PF. Mr S paid just over £4,000 for the holiday, and to put things right 
he wants all of this money back. Mr S also complains that Tesco PF took longer than it was 
allowed to take to deal with his complaint.
Tesco PF said it had two potential routes to get Mr Ss money back. It could have carried out 
a chargeback, or it could have raised a claim against itself on behalf of Mr S under section 
75.
However, Tesco PF pointed out Mr S did not pay for the dives as part of his holiday, rather 
these were additional excursions that he would have paid for once at the hotel resort. That 
being so, the dives did not appear on the invoice V gave to Mr S because they did not form 
part of Mr Ss contract with V. For all of these reasons Tesco PF concluded a chargeback 
would have failed, so it did not try to raise one.
As to Mr Ss claim under section 75, Tesco PF did not agree that there were any proper 
grounds for meeting Mr Ss claim. It pointed out that the general effect of section 75 is that if 
Mr S has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier he can also 
bring a like claim against Tesco PF provided certain conditions are met. Mr S claims there 
has been misrepresentation and breach of contract on the part of V. But Tesco PF pointed 
out the invoice from V which set out the services that it would supply did not include dives. 
Instead dives were optional extras that Mr S intended to book when he arrived at the resort. 
Moreover, Mr Ss expectations around the diving he wanted were based on what he read on 
the hotel resorts website not Vs. However, the holiday he booked did not promise him all of 
the hotels facilities would be available to him during his stay.  Whereas the services set out 
in the booking invoice that is the services and goods he contracted for, including 21 nights 
stay in a deluxe beach bungalow, flights, meals and transfers were all provided. In other 
words the contract had been properly performed by V.
Therefore for all the reasons set out above, Tesco PF did not agree there had been any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract that would entitle Mr S to make a successful claim 
against it under section 75.
Mr S complained about Tesco PFs decision, but it declined to uphold his complaint. 
Dissatisfied with Tesco PFs response Mr S complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Our investigator recommended that 
Mr Ss complaint be upheld in part. Our investigator was persuaded that the contract 
between Mr S and V had been both misrepresented and breached. Our investigator was 
persuaded that as a result Mr S had experienced loss of enjoyment for which he should be 
awarded £600 to compensate him.
Neither Mr S nor Tesco PF accepted our investigators recommendation. Ive summarised 
the responses of each party below.
Mr S repeated his previous stance. In addition, he suggested that our service was missing 
the point if we thought he had had benefitted from the holiday, in particular he told us:
To allow that I had some benefit is to completely miss the point that I was marooned on an 
island with no ability to leave
I will need to repeat this trip if I want to complete it as wanted, yes there was a seat on the 
plane a bed in the room and meals. But this will all require purchased again to achieve what 
I went for.
Tesco PF did not agree any representations had been made by V to Mr S about the diving. 
Rather Vs website contained a review from a holidaymaker about their stay at the hotel 
resort that mentioned diving. Moreover, even if it accepted, which it did not, that V had made 
a representation to Mr S about the availability of diving or that diving was part of the contract, 
he did get to dive. Therefore, there has been no misrepresentation, because a 
misrepresentation has to involve a false statement of fact. It added nor was there any breach 
of contract because the service was provided. It added.
The fulfilment of any additional excursions were not part of the contract he had with the 
supplier and so the supplier are not responsible for the fulfilment of the excursions. Mr S has 
made assumptions about the package that were wrong, so we understand this is 
disappointing to him, it's certainly not something that should be remedied via s75.
Both Mr S and Tesco PF asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at Mr Ss complaint. 
Having considered the available evidence, I was not minded to uphold the complaint, but I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a 
provisional decision and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms 
part of my final decision.
What Ive decided and why
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.I agree with Tesco PF about the two possible routes it had to get Mr S his money back and 
Ill look at both.
Chargeback
Mr S does not appear to disagree with Tesco PFs stance on the chargeback. But just in 
case I am mistaken about this Ive looked at this point.
As Mr S paid for the goods and services using his credit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether Tesco PF dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback process 
is relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant 
card scheme rules.
There is no automatic right to a chargeback, and it does not guarantee a refund. But we 
consider it is good practice for a financial business to consider carrying out a chargeback if 
its customer asked it to do this provided that there is fair chance the chargeback will be 
successful.
In this case, looking at the relevant card scheme rules I think there was no realistic prospect 
of a chargeback succeeding for the reasons that Tesco PF already gave. Therefore, I find 
that I have no fair or reasonable basis for saying Tesco PF had to do anything further here.
Section 75
Ive looked at what role V played here and whether Mr S had a contract both with V for travel 
agency services and the hotel resort for accommodation. Or whether Mr Ss contract was 
with V alone for the entire package holiday. Based on the information I have it appears that 
Mr Ss contract was with V alone.
Under relevant legislation which includes section 75 and section 50 of the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (section 50), V and therefore by extension Tesco PF could be responsible in 
certain circumstances if Mr S was given untrue information by V about diving that he relied 
on before he booked his holiday or if there was a breach of the contract between V and Mr 
S.
Therefore I will take a look at the information supplied by V and whether I think this means it 
misrepresented or breached its contract with Mr S.
Mr S indicates V acted as the agent for the hotel resort and therefore if it is liable for 
anything the hotel resort said about diving facilities. But on the facts of the complaint it does 
not appear V did act as the agent of the hotel resort. So I dont find that V is responsible for 
anything the hotel resort said about diving. It follows that anything the hotel said is neither a 
misrepresentation nor did it form a term of the contract between Mr S and V.
However, I can look at the representations made by V about diving at the resort, and 
whether these were misrepresentations. In this context misrepresentation means a false 
statement of fact that induced Mr S to enter into the contract. Ive taken a look at the 
information that Mr S tells us he read on Vs website before he entered into the contract 
which induced him to contract with it. Here is the relevant extract from Vs website.
We love
Relaxing on the white-sand beach, swimming in the infinity pool, or exploring the colourful 
reefs on a diving excursion 
This strikes me as being a summary of what previous customers have a said in their reviews 
rather than any sort of representation by V. Or it is merely advertising puff, for example 
elsewhere in this section it talks about the resort being paradisical which suggests these 
are not statements of fact. Even if I am mistaken and this is a representation it is not untrue 
because diving was available at the hotel resort seemingly in the colourful reefs in the vicinity of the hotel resort. Moreover, nothing that is said here indicates that the diving 
available would include the specific dives that Mr S wanted to participate in.
It follows that I find I have no proper basis for saying V misrepresented the contract with Mr 
S. It also follows that I have no fair or reasonable grounds to say Tesco PF has to take any 
further action in relation to this part of Mr Ss complaint
However, in certain cases information supplied to a consumer by a supplier at the time he 
booked can become a term of the contract between the parties. Therefore I have to consider 
whether the provision of diving was by operation of law a term of the contract, and if it was, 
was that term breached. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA 2015) applies to 
contracts made between consumers and businesses, as is the case here. It gives 
consumers certain rights to protect them in a number of situations including where a 
consumer is unfairly treated by a business 
Ive already mentioned that the CRA 2015 applies to this complaint. In particular I think that 
Section 50 is relevant as I also mentioned before. Section 50 provides 
(1) Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including as a term of the contract 
anything that is said or written to the consumer, by or on behalf of the trader, about the 
trader or the service, if
(a)  it is taken into account by the consumer when deciding to enter into the contract, or
(b)  it is taken into account by the consumer when making any decision about the service 
after entering into the contract.
The explanatory notes for this provision give an example of where a trader prior to a sale 
tells its customer it will carry out a particular service if the consumer buys goods from it and 
then refuses to do so. 
Mr Ss position is that V has treated him unfairly. Specifically he complains that he relied on 
information provided by V in relation to the services it was going to supply, which was 
inaccurate.  I think what I have to consider is did V provide information to Mr S about the 
diving facilities at the hotel resort, and if it did, is it likely Mr S relied on it. Moreover was that 
information inaccurate and does all of this give Mr S the right to the refund he asks for.
When I look at the information Ive got in particular the information V provided about diving 
which I quoted above, I dont find that this is the type of information that is meant to be 
covered by section 50 being it seems to me a summary of previous customer reviews or 
advertising puff. Even if I did think this was covered by section 50 Mr S did have diving 
excursions in the colourful reefs just not the dives he wanted. Therefore it follows that there 
has been no breach of contract because the service was provided.
For all of these reasons Ive no proper basis for saying Tesco PF must give Mr S any refund 
including the refund he asks for.
Mr S is dissatisfied with the time it took Tesco PF to sort out his complaint. Im sorry to 
disappoint him, but I cant look at that part of his complaint. Thats because complaint 
handling isnt an activity listed within the rules that govern this service. Complaints about 
how a complaint has been dealt with simply are not something that falls within the remit of 
this service. I realise this may be very galling for Mr S but, he can take this issue no further 
with our service.
Provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not propose to uphold the complaint.
As far as I am aware we received no response either from Mr S or from Tesco PF to my 
provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received no response to my provisional decision, therefore Ive come to the same 
conclusions for the same reasons as I did in it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman