DRN-3320653
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(Niche) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr T is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading I will refer to Mr T 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr T approached Niche in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs having 
received a CETV from the pension administrator of around £83,000. He wanted to release 
funds to invest in a rental property. 
Niche completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of 
the advice. In summary it found:
He was aged 55 and married, with no dependent children
He was retired and his wife received £290 per week from agency work while looking 
for further employment. This income wasnt guaranteed.
He had monthly outgoings of £700, and spent up to £1,500 each year on holidays
He had savings of around £40,000 that he was using to fund his outgoings
He had no other income
He would be able to claim his state pension of around £143 from age 67
His only other pension was the DB pension
He owned his home, which had an approximate value of £110,000 with an 
outstanding mortgage of £30,000
His wife had her own DB scheme however the value was recorded as unknown
Niche also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious balanced. 
As explained above, it was found that Mr T wanted to release funds from his pension to buy 
an investment property. He already had a property in mind that he was planning to buy from 
a family member. It had a purchase value of £50,000 and estimated refurbishment costs of 
£20,000. Mr Ts son was also planning to contribute up to £30,000 towards the investment.
Mr T estimated the rental income from the property to be up to £500 each month which he 
could use as an additional income.
Mr Ts objectives were found to be:
Having an income for essential expenditure of £700 per month
Having £1000-£1500 available for holidays each year
Releasing the maximum amount of tax-free cash (TFC) from his pension to fund his 
property investment with the option of further drawdown.
Niche recommended: 
Mr T should transfer his DB into a SIPP
The funds that were recommended allowed Mr T to take varied amounts of TFC.
The annual charges for the SIPP totalled 1% of the fund value and Niche charged a total of 
£3,000 as a separate fee. Mr T accepted Niches advice and the transfer was completed.
Mr T complained in 2021 to Niche about the suitability of the transfer advice. In summary he 
said the advice to move his pension fund meant he had lost invaluable guaranteed benefits. 
He also said the fee payable for the advice was conditional on him transferring his pension 
so there was a clear conflict of interest.
Niche didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that its advice had been based on achieving the 
goals Mr T had set and that by going ahead with the transfer Mr T was able to achieve the 
outcome he wanted.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator considered the complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld, he said it was clear from the provisions Mr T had in place 
that his pension was not going to be able to fund his monthly expenditure, and that Mr T 
approached Niche with a very specific goal of releasing funds to invest in a property that had 
the potential to substantially increase his income.
The Investigator thought Mr T had also been advised of the associated risks of transferring 
his pension and that the advice he had been given was reasonable considering Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time.
In addition, the Investigator found that there was no conflict of interest regarding the fees 
paid for the advice Niche gave Mr T as the fee was payable regardless of whether the 
transfer went ahead.
Mr T disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests (COBS 19.1.6).Financial viability 
The critical yield required in the SIPP to match Mr Ts DB benefits at 65 was unlikely to be 
achieved. But this is somewhat irrelevant. Mr T was already retired at age 55 and using his 
savings to fund his outgoings. He needed additional income at the time, or shortly after the 
advice was given. So the reasonable options here were to either take income from his DB 
scheme straight away or transfer out and allow Mr T to follow his plan of buying a rental 
property with his son. 
Niche had found that Mr Ts outgoings totalled around £10,000 each year that Mr T had 
explained was already tight.  So he needed this amount to live comfortably in retirement. 
Mr Ts DB scheme would have provided an income of £3,000 per year if he took it 
immediately, or £2,400 per year and £14,000 in TFC. Neither of these options would have 
covered Mr Ts income requirements. 
The advice given to Mr T at the time would have allowed him to release the required TFC to 
fund his investment that had the potential to provide additional income of up to £500 each 
month, more than double that would have been provided by the DB scheme. While I 
appreciate the investment alone may not have fully supported Mr Ts required retirement 
income needs it could have put him in a significantly better position. He could supplement 
his income with funds from his personal pension at least until age 67 when both he and his 
wife would be able to access state pensions which would have more than covered their 
outgoings. 
Niche also clearly outlined the disadvantages of Mr T transferring his pension, which 
included that the fund could be depleted over time and that the fund was not guaranteed
I think Niche should have explored, and discounted other options of funding Mr Ts 
objectives before advising him to transfer his pension, but even if it did, with the information I 
have, I am unable to see any other viable alternative that could have provided the funds Mr 
T was attempting to raise. Mr T was funding his outgoings with his savings, that would have 
been reducing each month. Mr T was also retired, and his wife was working intermittently 
while seeking further employment, their house also had a mortgage outstanding. 
With the above in mind I dont think Mr T had resources available to service any further 
lending than he already had. He also had no other assets he could have used.
Even if Niche had advised against the transfer, I think Mr T would likely have gone ahead 
with the transfer. Mr T had already looked at a specific investment property and 
approximated the renovation costs. He had also spoken to his son and agreed a joint effort 
to make the investment possible. It was at this stage that Mr T contacted Niche for advice on 
releasing funds from his pension.
It's clear that investing in a property came with its own risks and that the estimated income 
would not have been guaranteed. But as previously stated, Mr Ts existing provisions were 
not adequate for his needs and he had no other clear way of financing his retirement, so this 
option seems reasonable.Mr Ts representative said in its complaint submission that the purchase of the property did 
go ahead, and that Mr Ts son now lives in the property rent free. Mr T has told us that the 
purchase of the property fell through and he has been using the funds raised by the transfer 
to cover his living costs taking a total of around £40,000 from his pension fund. However, 
this does not change the reasons Mr T went ahead with the transfer in the first place and 
does not impact my decision.
Mr T would also not have had access to the same amount of TFC had he stayed within the 
DB scheme so he is likely to have struggled to meet the commitments he encountered 
following the transfer had it not gone ahead.
In addition to the above I have considered what Mr T has said, that Niche charged a fee that 
was dependent on the transfer going ahead. But the paperwork available from the time 
shows an analysis fee of £2,500(which was the majority of the fees) would be payable 
whether the transfer went ahead or not, so again this doesnt impact on my decision either.
In summary Mr T had limited options available to fund his retirement, and his pension fund 
would not have been sufficient. So, the advice to transfer out of the DB scheme to fund an 
investment that could have helped to meet his living expenses was not unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman