DRN-4099167
The complaint
The representative of the estate of the late Mrs B who is Mr B has complained that Marks & 
Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) would not change Mrs Bs address at the request of 
her husband Mr B in 2016.
Mr B has also complained that this resulted in the monthly membership fees for the M&S 
premium club being debited until 2022 without the benefits of the Premium Club being able 
to be used.
What happened
In 2011 the late Mrs B added Premium Club to her M&S credit card. In 2016 Mr B and the 
late Mrs B changed address. In April 2017 Mr B asked M&S to change the address for the 
late Mrs Bs credit card.
M&S did not do this as it required either a Power of Attorney (POA) or a Letter of Authority 
(LOA) from Mrs B. It did though mark the account as gone away. There was some back 
and forth around this until, in June 2022, Mrs B sadly passed away. At that point the credit 
card account was closed and M&S sent a cheque for half of the Premium Club fees paid 
during this period.
Mr B raised a complaint about this, as he felt that all the fees should be refunded as the 
benefits could not be used during this period. One of our adjudicators looked into this 
already and he agreed that this should be the case. M&S did not agree as it felt that it had 
not done anything wrong and that it had correctly followed its own procedures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that M&S followed its own procedures in relation to the changing of the late Mrs Bs 
address, that said I think that this complaint should be upheld. Let me explain why.
Ultimately M&S added a gone away marker to the late Mrs Bs account and was on notice 
that Mrs B had medical issues. It was very unlikely that Mrs B could benefit from the travel 
insurance that the account came with, the credit card was not being used to gain points and 
no vouchers could be issued to the late Mrs B, due to the gone away marker. Therefore, it 
was clear that none of the benefits of Premium Club were being used.
I understand that in some circumstances this would be down to the credit card holder to 
rectify, and the onus would be on them to remove Premium Club or change their address. 
But given the specific circumstances of this complaint, I think that it would have been 
reasonable for M&S to either have proactively help the address change, downgrade the 
account or with hindsight, to have refunded the Premium Club fees once it was pointed out 
to them what had happened.
So overall I am upholding this complaint and direct M&S to refund all of the membership fees 
that were applied to the late Mrs Bs credit card account since April 2017 that have not 
already been refunded.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) to pay 
redress in line with the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman