DRN-2807633
The complaint
 Mrs F complains that a car she obtained with a Conditional Sale Agreement with Santander 
Consumer  (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance  (SCF) wasnt fit for purpose , 
she would like to reject it.
What happened
 Mrs F says she took out the conditional sale agreement on 27 July 2017 for a one-year old 
car with just over 6,000 miles on the clock. She says she had problems in July 2018 which 
led to new balance shafts being fitted. However, her main issue is that  from October 2018  
she has had an ongoing problem with the diesel particulate filter (DPF) which hasnt been 
resolved.
SCF said as the problem with the DPF occurred  more than six months after Mrs F got the 
car the onus was on her to show there was a problem with the car at the point of sale, but 
she hadnt  done so. 
It also commented that the problem with the DPF came from Mrs Fs limited driving of the 
car which didnt allow the DPF to clear not from a fault with the DPF
I issued a first  provisional decision in which I didnt find enough evidence of a point of sale 
issue for which Santander it was responsible. As the issue arose approximately 15 months 
after Mrs F had the car, I thought she needed to provide me with some evidence  for 
example an independent report  to show the problem was present or developing at the 
point of sale. As she hadnt done so I didnt think I could uphold her complaint.
I then issued a second provisional decision when I became aware of specific issues with 
dpfs.
In this second provisional decision, I found:-
In certain models of cars  Mrs Fs included  the DPF regularly gets blocked 
requiring regeneration. This doesnt necessarily occur within the first six months of an 
agreement when we usually say its a business responsibility to resolve any issues 
unless it can show they werent present or developing at the point of sale. 
Some driving conditions such as regular short journeys in slow traffic might not lead 
to regeneration in which case a warning light comes on then the driver must drive 
over 37 mph for 20 minutes to clear the filter. If this doesnt work the car goes into 
limp mode and requires a replacement DPF or forced regeneration.
The advice to consumers seemed to differ from taking the car on a long motorway 
drive, to keeping the engine idling to get the vehicle warm enough to read the soot 
level and or complete a regeneration if needed
Mrs F had told us she drives on average 4000 miles a year . And she has told us she 
was never warned she would have to give her car a regular blast along the 
motorway to stop it clogging up.
I couldnt be certain what Mrs f was told at the point of sale. But I found it credible 
when she said she wasnt given this advice. She has told us she would never have 
taken a car that needed regular motorway runs to stop a fault happening . I thought 
that was a fair point. I thought if that had been made clear to her , with her knowledge 
of her own driving needs , she would have opted for a different car.
It seemed  Mrs F  resolved the problem by altering her driving style by performing 
longer and unnecessary drives which would have increased her fuel consumption I 
didnt  think that was  reasonable to expect her to do this. The job cards between  
October 2018 and April 2019 supported is a fault with the DPF on Mrs Fs car and I 
thought it was  likely she unfortunately has a model of car where this issue can 
happen.
Mrs F  has also told us the problem arose within the first six months but at that point 
she managed the problem by driving for 20 minutes at over 40 mph to clear the filter. 
The final response letter from Santander does note that Mrs F said the issue arose 
within the first six months. I dont have any other evidence that it did but giving the 
more recent going problems with the DP and now that I am aware of a wider problem 
with DPFs on certain models I am persuaded that this is likely to be the case here 
and, on that basis,   I think its reasonable to allow MRs F to reject the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mrs F, understandably , accepted my second provisional decision and made no further 
substantive points for me to consider.
Santander didnt reply to my first provisional decision, neither has it replied to this second 
one. Its response to my second provisional decision was due back by 30 April 2021 giving 
Santander a full month to respond. We have given it more time to do so. And I understand 
our investigator has tried to contact Santander to elicit a response but has had no success. 
I do feel Santander has had enough opportunity to make any comments to me but hasnt 
done so. And in fairness to Mrs F I think its appropriate to issue my final decision.
In the absence of any contradictory evidence from Santander I am still of the view that Mrs 
Fs car is one of the models of cars in which the dpf gets regularly blocked requiring 
regeneration which doesnt necessarily occur in the first six months of ownership. 
Mrs Fs low mileage wont have helped the issue  she only drives on average 4000 miles a 
year and regular short drives in slow traffic might not lead to regeneration. That persuades 
me that had Mrs F been made aware of this issue when she got the car, she wouldnt have 
gone ahead with an agreement for a car for which the advice is to due long motorway drives 
to clear the filter. 
I think she has managed the issue by altering her driving style by performing longer, 
unnecessary drives . I dont think its reasonable to expect her to do this. I think its reasonable to allow her to reject the car
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance  (SCF) should :-
Refund Mrs. Fs deposit adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Refund 15 % of the rental payments from and including October 2018 (the date the 
issues with the dpf started)  to the date of settlement
Pay Mrs F £250 for the distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information, if any, relating to this agreement on Mrs Fs credit 
file
Collect the car at no further cost to Mrs F
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman