DRN-1947769
 
The complaint
Miss T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc paid money to her credit card account twice.
What happened
Miss T made a payment to her credit card account in a HSBC branch for £985.50 in April 
2019. The credit card account is with a company I will call "M". HSBC then made a further 
payment for £985 some days later to M. Miss T says she was unaware of this and some 
months later HSBC took the money out of her credit card account. She says the mistake 
caused her to spend money and says HSBC offer of £75 compensation isn't enough. And 
doesn't take into account the level of its mistake and the distress she has been caused.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It says it recalled the money when it 
realised it made a mistake, and has paid £75 compensation.
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought overall the compensation 
award was fair and reasonable. The investigator thought the money was HSBC's, and so it 
was entitled to ask M for it back.
Miss T doesn't accept that view and says she wasn't told about the mistake until she asked 
about it and says the mistake has caused her financial distress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Miss T will be disappointed 
by my decision.
There is no question here that HSBC made a mistake by sending the money twice. I have no 
doubt Miss T has been caused inconvenience in trying to find out what happened. But I'm 
satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for its mistake and has explained what took place. 
I'm also satisfied that it has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation which I think 
reflects the level of its mistake, and that I don't think Miss T suffered a financial loss as a 
result of what took place.
I appreciate that Miss T questions the amount that was returned to HSBC. I can see that 
HSBC sent £985 in error but M returned £985.50. I have looked at HSBC's records and I 
think on balance that it asked for £985, but it appears M sent back the original amount. So I 
think Miss T will need to go back to M if she wishes to ask for the difference back, as I don't 
HSBC made the mistake about the amount.
I also appreciate Miss T says he she didn't check her credit card statements. I think she 
ought to have done so as I think it likely that M would have made it an account requirement. 
And that if she had, she would have realised there was a credit that she shouldn't have 
received. Miss T told us the mistake caused her to spend more on the card, which I think suggests on balance she noticed the account was in credit. In any event I'm satisfied the 
money was not hers, and HSBC was entitled to ask M to return it.
I have not seen any evidence from Miss T that she suffered any financial loss as a result of 
what took place. But I accept HSBC ought to have told her in advance about what it was 
going to do and why. I don't think that mistake justifies any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman