DRN-2483370
The complaint
Mr B says that MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with MBNA in 2003. Around the same time, MBNA sold him a 
PPI policy to protect his monthly repayments on the card account if he couldnt work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that MBNA hadnt 
made the costs and benefits clear enough. Had it done so, our adjudicator didnt think it was 
likely that Mr B wouldve bought the policy. 
Because MBNA disagrees Mr Bs complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I think is most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B took out the PPI during a phone call. Based on what we know about how MBNA sold 
PPI this way at the time, I think its unlikely that it advised Mr B to take out the PPI. This 
means that MBNA didnt have a responsibility to check that the policy was suitable for Mr B. 
But it did need to give him enough information to be able to decide for himself whether he 
wanted to take the cover.
If Mr B had made a successful accident or sickness claim on the policy, it would have paid 
3% of the outstanding balance at the date of claim, each month until he returned to work or 
until that balance was cleared - whichever happened first. And it would have paid the same 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months at a time for each successful claim for unemployment.
I dont know what MBNA told Mr B about the PPI. I think it probably mentioned that hed be 
charged 68p per £100 of his monthly statement balance. 
But I dont think this wouldve given Mr B much idea about the true cost of the policy. For 
instance, I dont think he wouldve realised how interest would be charged on the premiums 
or that hed still have to continue paying the premiums if he made a claim. This affected the 
value of the policy in real terms.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr B because he told us that he wouldve got at least 
3 months sick pay from his employer if he was off sick from work. So Mr B couldve met his 
credit card repayments for a while without the policy. 
The information Mr B has provided to us and to MBNA about his employment circumstances 
when he took out the PPI hasnt been fully consistent. But Ive kept in mind that this 
happened a long time ago. So I dont think thats surprising  or a reason for me not to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr B had previously told MBNA the same information he told us about his sick pay 
entitlement. Ive taken into account that it seems Mr B told MBNA something different over 
the phone later on when it called him to discuss his complaint.  
But I havent heard how that call was conducted or what exactly was said about Mr Bs sick 
pay. I dont know how prepared he was for the call or whether hed had a chance to think 
about things properly before having to answer detailed questions about what his sick pay 
had been some 16 years earlier. 
Mr B hasnt provided any evidence of his sick pay in 2003 when he took out this PPI. But 
I dont think its realistic to expect him to do this after so long. Apart from the phone call with 
MBNA, Mr B has consistently said he had at least 3 months sick pay  and it seems MBNA 
now broadly accepts this. 
On balance, I think that what Mr B told us and MBNA about his sick pay entitlement when 
filling in details of his complaint is more likely to be accurate. 
I've taken into account that, as MBNA says, Mr B has been inconsistent about how long hed 
been in the job. But, I've seen nothing to make me think that his length of service is likely to 
have been any less than 8 years or so. 
I agree with MBNA that since Mr B didnt initially mention an amount of savings he later told 
us about, and I've seen no further information about this, then its fair that I should disregard 
this information. So I havent taken into account what Mr B said about having savings. 
Looking at everything else I've seen and been told about Mr Bs circumstances, I dont think 
its unreasonable to think its likely he couldve depended on his employers sick pay for at 
least 3 months  hed worked for his employer for a significant number of years and thinking 
about his job role, this amount of sick pay seems reasonable to me. 
So the lack of supporting information makes no difference to my overall view. 
Bearing in mind the level of sick pay which I think its likely Mr B was entitled to, I dont think 
hed have considered the policy worth taking out if hed been provided with clear enough 
information about its cost and potential benefits.
So, I think Mr B has lost out because of what MBNA did wrong and its fair to uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mr B in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that the PPI has been cancelled already so: A MBNA should find out how much Mr B would owe on his credit card account if the 
policy hadnt been added (or how much he wouldve owed if the credit card has 
already been cancelled).
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr B owes and what he 
would have owed or, if the credit card has already been cancelled, MBNA should 
refund the difference between what Mr B owed when he closed his account and what 
he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI, plus interest from the closure date  the 
rate should be 8% a year* 
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B If  when MBNA works out what Mr B would have owed each month without PPI 
Mr B paid more than enough to clear his balance, MBNA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr B wouldve owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.*
C MBNA should tell Mr B what its done to work out A and B.
D MBNA can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount relating to 
this PPI sale that it has already repaid to Mr B.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
MBNA Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman