DRN-3380722
The complaint
Mr T complains that J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration Services Limited (JP Morgan) 
delayed transferring his account to a new provider. Hes also unhappy that dividend 
payments werent reinvested at this time, but instead sent to him directly by cheque.
What happened
In April 2019, JP Morgan wrote to Mr T and explained they were no longer going to offer
their ISA and Investment Accounts. They gave Mr T a few options, including transferring his
account to another provider. Mr T chose this option and returned his instruction form. His
usual direct debit went in on 16 September 2019 and he provided instructions to withdraw
some of the funds on 24 September.
Mr T expected the transfer to happen by 29 September 2019. Therefore, he contacted JP
Morgan in October 2019 to explain he hadnt heard anything further about the transfer. He
also contacted the new provider. Mr T also became concerned that the dividends were being
sent directly to him by JP Morgan via cheque.
Following this, there was further correspondence between Mr T and JP Morgan about the
concerns raised. JP Morgan wrote to Mr T on 3 April 2020 and accepted that the process
they followed when transferring the accounts hadnt accommodated for the events which
took place on Mr Ts account. They offered an ex-gratia payment of £50. They also
explained they hadnt been able to transfer his account as part of the bulk transfer because it
wasnt settled in time as a result of the instructions to withdraw three of the funds.
Additionally, they had sent the dividends by cheque because the circumstances meant they
hadnt been able to reinvest them and they hadnt received authorisation to pay these types
of payment directly into Mr Ts bank account.
Mr T remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The Investigator felt that JP Morgan
hadnt done anything wrong in respect of how they handled the transfer. He felt their
payment of £50 was appropriate to acknowledge the process didnt suit the events as they
happened here. Mr T didnt agree and responded to the view setting out his position. He
strongly feels that JP Morgan have caused him a financial loss as a result of not being able
to trade. 
Both parties have provided further information since the view. And JP Morgan made an offer
of £50 compensation to recognise that they could have kept Mr T better informed about the
transfer. Mr T didnt accept this offer because he felt it didnt appropriately compensate him
for the loss.
On 25 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision, I said: 
Transfer
Ive reviewed the letter from April 2019 and can see Mr T would have expected his 
account to be transferred by 29 September. I can also see that if he chose to have 
his account transferred to the new provider, the new provider would give him an 
introductory rate for fourteen months.
Mr T returned the instruction form and agreed to have his account transferred. Mr T 
made regular direct debit payments in order to invest and this included a payment on 
16 September 2019. Ive seen JP Morgan wrote to Mr T on 16 September and they 
explained that if Mr T didnt want his account to be transferred to the new provider, 
then his only option would be to sell his investment in full up until midday on 24 
September. I appreciate why Mr T then understood this was the cut-off date, but I 
can see this letter was actually about not wanting the account to transfer at all rather 
than withdrawing individual funds.
Mr Ts last direct debit went in as expected on 16 September 2019. The funds from 
the direct debit payment were automatically invested into several of the funds. JP 
Morgan have said it can take ten days for direct debits to clear. They have provided a 
copy of their terms and conditions and I note they set out some conditions under the 
section regular contributions. This section, for example, does reference needing ten 
days notice for setting up direct debits. So, Im content this is probably an accurate 
reflection of the timescale for dealing with direct debits.
Following this, Mr T made a withdrawal request from some of the funds he was 
invested in. This was on 24 September 2019. I can see this was before the deadline 
Mr T had understood from JP Morgans letter. JP Morgan have explained the direct 
debit hadnt been processed prior to withdrawal, which meant that units were brought 
in the same funds Mr T wanted to withdraw from. Therefore, the remaining balance 
was sold, in line with Mr Ts instructions to withdraw those funds, on 27 September.
JP Morgan have explained that prior to the transfer and in order for them to meet the
deadline, they had to provide a data cut which included identifying clients accounts 
in preparation for the migration. They explained at the time they carried this out Mr 
Ts account was unsettled. Im content this was reasonable given the timing of the 
direct debit and withdrawals explained above.
Further to this, JP Morgan have explained that they made a business decision to 
ensure accounts were settled before transferring as this could impact the account. 
Theyve also explained this was applied to all clients in the same position. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr T was frustrated when his account wasnt transferred as expected, Im 
content the decision by JP Morgan was applied fairly to all their clients in the same 
position.
I understand Mr T spoke with JP Morgan on 17 October 2019. I can also see Mr T 
contacted the new provider. JP Morgan have accepted they should have made Mr T 
aware after he placed the withdrawals that theyd be unable to transfer his account. I 
agree they should have been clearer about the impact it might have on the transfer, 
although I appreciate JP Morgan have explained it was difficult to foresee.
Overall, Im minded to say JP Morgan could have communicated better with Mr T so 
he could understand what was happening with the transfer of his account. I also think 
they could have been clearer about how the activity close to the transfer date might 
affect the time it would take to transfer. Nevertheless, Mr T wanted to withdraw some 
of the funds, and I cant say his decision to do so would have been any different had 
he known they might not be able to include his account in the bulk transfer. I also 
understand four weeks is quite a significant time to be unable to trade. However, it 
would have always taken more time to transfer the accounts manually and Im 
satisfied the time taken did not extend beyond a reasonable period. For these reasons, I minded to conclude JP Morgan dealt with the account reasonably although 
their communication could have been better.
Additionally, I do appreciate Mr T says he was prevented from trading. I know how 
strongly he feels about this. Ive already outlined why I think JP Morgan dealt with the 
account reasonably in respect of the transfer. But Id also add Im not persuaded from 
the evidence Ive seen Mr T has been caused a financial loss. Ive seen Mr T 
contacted JP Morgan in October 2019 to find out what was happening with his 
transfer. But Ive not seen evidence from the time his account was being transferred 
which satisfies me Mr T had specific plans to deal his investments during this period.
On 19 December 2019 Mr T wrote to JP Morgan and explained that for simplicity he 
wasnt going to argue that he would have wanted to complete direct debits for any or 
all of the investments. Moreover, he explained he probably would have sold three 
investments with the information which was available to him by that time. He 
explained the prices of all three had increased since 5 October 2019. However, this 
email is not sufficient to persuade me of Mr Ts intentions at the time his account was 
being transferred. When he said he would have sold some of the investments, this 
was said with the benefit of hindsight, but Id need to see he had clear intentions 
during the time he wasnt able to access his account. Whilst he wasnt able to deal 
with his account, the evidence isnt sufficient to show me he was prevented from 
executing specific instructions he intended to make at the time. Regardless
of this, Im minded to say the way JP Morgan handled the transfer was reasonable.
Distribution payments
During October 2019, JP Morgan paid dividends to Mr T in the form of a cheque. The
covering letter also noted that the dividends were currently paid by cheque.
Mr T wrote to JP Morgan on 24 October and explained that he understood dividends
accrued but not paid by 28 September would be included in the transfer. He therefore
returned the dividends cheque he received. He said it wasnt true that the distribution
payments were being paid by cheque because they were actually set to reinvest. He 
said they were authorised to make payments to his bank account.
JP Morgan wrote to Mr T on 8 November 2019. They explained any distributions for
reinvestment were intended to be passed to the new provider separately. However, 
Mr Ts account couldnt be included in the bulk migration. Therefore, they explained 
the distribution reinvestment defaulted to cheque payment. Theyve explained this 
was their usual procedure. They apologised for the inconvenience caused and later 
issued a bank transfer for the distribution amount. I also note that they explained Mr 
T might receive some further cheques. I appreciate this was an inconvenience for Mr 
T, but Im not minded to say it was unreasonable that the distribution payments 
initially reverted to cheque. Although I do understand this wasnt what Mr T expected.
Nevertheless, I can see some further distribution cheques were sent to Mr T. Mr T 
wrote to them on 21 November 2019 and explained he wasnt sure if he received the 
bank transfer. JP Morgan wrote to Mr T on 5 December and explained they had 
cancelled the cheques and made a payment to Mr Ts account. And I can see from 
the correspondence this caused Mr T some inconvenience.
Having reviewed the evidence, I appreciate Mr T expected the distribution money to 
be sent as cash to the new provider for reinvestment. However, the account wasnt 
transferred with the bulk transfer. JP Morgan have explained they only initially had 
authority to pay sales proceeds into Mr Ts bank account. Therefore, I cant say they did anything wrong when the distribution payments initially reverted to payment by 
cheque. But I can see they agreed to send the distribution payments to Mr Ts bank 
account, and it took a bit of time for this to be sorted, and in the meantime he 
continued to receive cheques. JP Morgan have already accepted the process didnt 
accommodate for the events here, and it seems the fact the distribution payments 
were sent by cheque is an example of this.
Putting things right
JP Morgan should have done more to keep Mr T updated about the transfer as they 
had been unable to transfer the account by the date expected. Also, JP Morgan have 
accepted the process followed didnt take into account the events as they happened 
here, and it took some time to arrange for the distributions payments to be paid into 
Mr Ts bank account.
Theyve already paid £50 and have offered Mr T a further £50 in acknowledgement of 
this. JP Morgan have also apologised, and Im minded to conclude a total of £100 is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances (this is inclusive of the £50 previously 
paid). I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T and this is an offer which has 
already been explained by our Investigator. But as explained Im not minded to say 
the issues Ive identified have caused Mr T a financial loss.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. JP Morgan 
confirmed they accepted the decision and they had nothing further to add. 
Mr T confirmed he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said the last day for dealing 
to ensure the transfer could go ahead as scheduled was omitted from the paperwork which 
notified him of the transfer in April 2019. The paperwork also didnt explain what would 
happen if something interfered with the transfer and he assumed the special offer terms 
would not apply. 
Additionally, Mr T said he made his decisions at very short notice since he started using 
email in November 2020 but before then it was less so. He explained this is why he couldnt 
provide evidence to show his intentions at the time and he did not expect me to look for this. 
He said his account ran differently to what he had planned and he lost out as a result but it 
wouldnt be possible to prove. 
Mr T also said the provisional decision felt one sided and that JP Morgan held all the cards 
for bulk transfers. The terms were seriously faulty and that £100 was not sufficient for the 
trouble and upset he experienced. 
As both parties have had the opportunity to comment, Ive proceeded to make my final 
decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision. I would assure Mr T that Ive considered all the information Ive been 
provided impartially and fairly. Ive also set out to summarise each parties submissions. 
I appreciate what Mr T has said about the terms for the transfer, the paperwork and that JP 
Morgan gave no final dealing date. However, based on the information I have, the issue wasnt with when Mr T withdrew the holdings but because the direct debits hadnt yet cleared 
when the holdings were initially withdrawn. Also, Mr T has explained he assumed the special 
offer would not apply. However, this was something offered by the new provider and I can 
see he mentioned his account set up in correspondence with them. For example, his email 
on 16 January 2020. 
In my view these issues speak to how JP Morgan communicated with Mr T about the 
transfer. And, in my provisional decision, I explained their communication around the effect 
of activity close to the transfer date and the delay to the transfer should have been clearer. 
But Ive already set out why Im not persuaded they acted unreasonably when they didnt 
include Mr Ts account in the bulk transfer. 
Putting things right
Mr T has explained he doesnt feel £100 is fair in the circumstances and Ive also considered 
what hes said about being unable to provide evidence for his perceived losses. JP Morgans 
communication should have been clearer overall, and this meant Mr T had to contact them 
to find out what was happening with the transfer. Also, it took some time to sort the 
distribution payments. I do recognise this caused Mr T inconvenience and frustration. 
However, Im content a total of £100 appropriately recognises this and reasonably reflects 
the time Mr T spent dealing with JP Morgan to clarify the issues which arose.
I do appreciate what Mr T has said about providing evidence for his perceived financial 
losses. However, the evidence I have seen isnt sufficient for me to be able to conclude Mr T 
has suffered a financial loss as a result of the issues identified here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration Services 
Limited should pay Mr T £50. This is in addition to the £50 they have already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman