DRN-3968714
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin Media) allowed a third party 
to take out a fixed sum loan agreement using his details, without Mr Fs consent. Mr F also 
complains about Virgin Medias handling of the matter.
What happened
In November 2021, someone claiming to be Mr F contacted Virgin Media by phone and 
applied for a fixed sum loan agreement for a mobile handset and an accessory. The cash 
price of the items was around £1,200 and the monthly repayments were for £34 over a 36-
month term. The agreement included details such as Mr Fs name, his address but a 
different mobile number and email address to Mr Fs. 
On 13 December 2021, Virgin Medias internal notes show they suspended the airtime 
account due to suspicious activity on the phone line. However, Virgin Media say 
unfortunately, the loan agreement remained active.
Mr F was alerted to this account when he received letters from Virgin Media letting him know 
payment was due. So, on 29 December 2021, Mr F contacted Virgin Media to let them know 
the account was fraudulent and that he wanted it closed down. An internal fraud query was 
logged by Virgin Media at this point, but it doesnt appear from their internal notes that 
further action was taken.
Mr F then made a further two calls to try and resolve things  with the last call being made 
on 20 July 2022 when another fraud query was raised, and Virgin Medias fraud team looked 
into the matter. As a result, the account was closed as fraudulent a few days later and Virgin 
Media sent Mr F a letter on 1 August 2022, confirming the account had been closed. Mr F 
said he then complained to Virgin Media about this but didnt receive a response. Mr F also 
asked a solicitor to send a complaint letter to Virgin Media on his behalf, and told us that this 
went unanswered. 
Mr F says throughout all of this, Virgin Media attempted to take a payment from his account 
and pursued him for the outstanding debt. Eventually, the account was sold to a debt 
collector who contacted Mr F to ask him to repay the debt. Mr F said he wanted an apology 
from Virgin Media for what had happened.
Virgin Media acknowledge the account was fraudulent and also that Mr F didnt receive the 
level of customer service they would expect. Virgin Media said they closed the account, 
wrote off the outstanding amount, provided feedback to the relevant department, apologised 
for what had happened and also offered Mr F £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr F didnt accept this as he said Virgin Media caused him a lot of stress, time and 
aggravation in trying to resolve this issue. Mr F also said he instructed a solicitor to act on 
his behalf, which cost him money. Mr F said the stress was further exacerbated by the debt 
collector who turned up at his house asking him to repay the debt. And that despite taking 
matters to the police and Action Fraud and obtaining a crime reference number, Virgin Media 
still didnt close the account.  
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr F. In summary, she said there wasnt anything 
which showed Virgin Media ought to have reasonably known this was a fraudulent account 
at the time of application. However, the length of time it took Virgin Media to look into things 
wasnt reasonable - had they looked into things when Mr F raised his concerns in December 
2021, its likely Mr F wouldnt have needed to call Virgin Media again and its unlikely the 
debt would have been passed to a debt collector. Lastly, our Investigator said having 
considered the distress and inconvenience caused by Virgin Media, she felt £250 
compensation in total was fairer.
Virgin Media accepted our Investigators view. Mr F said he didnt accept the compensation 
our Investigator recommended but acknowledged that there wasnt anything more she could 
do within our services remit. Mr F said he would instruct his lawyer to take this matter further 
and expose Virgin Media to the wider public. Mr F also clarified that the items werent sent to 
his address, so the fraudster must have retrieved them another way. As a result, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr F has fallen victim to fraud and I can understand why Mr F wanted to get 
things resolved quickly. While I may not comment on everything raised, Ive thoroughly read 
and considered all the evidence and arguments from both sides. My decision focuses on the 
relevant key issues, and on what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case.
Ive looked at the application and can see some of the details used are Mr Fs  such as his 
name and address. The mobile number and email address dont match Mr Fs. Its unclear 
how the fraudster was able to obtain these details, but Virgin Media said they had no reason 
to believe they werent dealing with Mr F when the application was made. Having considered 
this, as well as the fact that Mr Fs correct details werent already known to Virgin Media, I 
dont think theres anything that ought to have alerted Virgin Media that this was a fraudulent 
account. Or anything that required Virgin Media to carry out more checks than they may 
usually do when the application was made. 
So, at the application stage I dont think theyve done anything wrong. Next, I need to 
consider whether Virgin Media need to take any further steps. They have ultimately accepted 
the account was fraudulent, closed it down and stopped pursing Mr F for the debt. Where an 
account is accepted as fraudulent, this is as Id expect. But I need to think about whether the 
amount offered by Virgin Media fairly compensates Mr F for what went wrong before they 
took these steps.
Virgin Medias internal notes show me they raised an internal fraud query the same day Mr F 
contacted them in December 2021. But I havent seen any evidence to show me if further 
steps were taken after this was raised internally. We asked Virgin Media for information on 
what happened, and they said there may have been a slight delay in receiving Mr Fs 
concerns but havent explained the reason why no further action was taken. I would have 
expected Virgin Media to look into things quickly given the fraud concerns Mr F was raising 
at the time. However, it doesnt look like this was done until Mr F called Virgin Media for a 
third time  when Virgin Media raised another fraud query in July 2022, which resulted in the 
account being closed shortly after. Its disappointing to see Virgin Media didnt act quickly initially and I think had they taken 
further steps when Mr F raised his concerns in December 2021, it wouldnt have led to what 
then followed - chasers for the outstanding debt by Virgin Media and the debt company, as 
well as the inconvenience caused to Mr F in trying to sort the matter. 
Next, Ive gone on to consider the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F. I note Mr F 
has made reference to exposing Virgin Media for their shortcomings. Its important to stress 
that this service doesnt punish or fine a business for getting things wrong. Instead, we can 
award compensation to consumers for any financial loss and potential upset and 
inconvenience caused by a business error.
I think the initial worry in finding out about this account was caused by the fraudsters actions 
in obtaining credit using Mr Fs details  that isnt something I can legitimately say Virgin 
Media are responsible for. But I also acknowledge that further distress was caused as a 
result of Virgin Media not handling things as I would have expected.
Mr F spent a lot of time and effort trying to get Virgin Media to recognise this was a 
fraudulent account and for them investigate matters further. Mr F has explained this issue 
caused him stress and aggravation and that his credit score was impacted by, what he says 
he can only assume, this issue. I can appreciate the worry and distress caused especially in 
finding out that the debt was passed to a third party and them turning up to his house, 
despite telling Virgin Media that the account was fraudulent. For these reasons, I think Virgin 
Media should pay Mr F £250 compensation in total. Virgin Media told us Mr Fs credit file 
should have been amended so that information about this agreement doesnt appear on 
there. But in case this hasnt happened, and so there is absolute clarity, Virgin Media should 
remove all information about this loan agreement from Mr Fs credit file.
Mr F told us he instructed a solicitor to contact Virgin Media on his behalf about the 
fraudulent account, after Virgin Media had closed the account and issued their final 
response, which cost him money. While I understand Mr Fs concerns, I cant reasonably ask 
Virgin Media to reimburse him with the costs he may have incurred. I say this because it was 
Mr Fs choice to instruct a third party and to pay for the service of that party. 
If Mr F accepts this decision, itll become legally binding on both parties. So, Mr F may want 
to take legal advice to see how that could impact any further claims he may have.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited to pay Mr F £250 compensation in total as well as clear any information 
about this agreement from Mr Fs credit file if this hasnt been done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman