DRN-2490615
The complaint
Mr N (through a professional representative) complains that he was given unsuitable advice 
to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1988 by Phoenix 
Life Limited (Phoenix) when a Group Personal Pension (GPP) was set up on his behalf by 
his then employers.
What happened
In 1988 a GPP was setup for Mr N with Hill Samuel, a firm Phoenix is now responsible for. 
The policy was used to contract out Mr N of SERPS. It was recorded at the time that Mr N 
was 40 years of age and working as a labourer, earning £5,928 p.a. Contributions were to be 
invested in the Managed Fund.
Phoenix says Mr N wouldve been provided with brochures explaining the features of the 
plan and it has sent us copies of its documentation relating to the time. Within this 
contracting-out was explained and its SERPS brochure stated that the decision to contract-
out will normally depend on age and that a male aged under 45 could find it advantageous. It 
said as Mr N was 40 years of age at the time, based on its guidelines and assumptions the 
advice to contract-out appeared to be appropriate.  It also pointed out the literature stated 
the decision to opt out of SERPS is made on a tax year to tax year basis and Mr N chose to 
contract-back in for the 1993/1994 tax year.
Our investigator looked into matters and concluded that the advice appeared suitable. She 
said that Mr N met the criteria of the plan for whom it was thought would benefit from 
contracting-out. And that as Mr N had 20+ years until retirement, she didnt think the risk 
involved wouldve been above what wouldve been reasonable for his circumstances then.
Mr Ns representative disagreed with the investigators view. He said that the investigator had 
failed to address that Mr N wasnt warned of the substantial risk he would be taking in giving 
up guaranteed benefits in SERPS. He also said the investigator hadnt taken into account 
the relevant law and regulators rules at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The applicable rules at the time
Mr N was advised to contract-out of SERPS in 1988. Hill Samuel (now Phoenix) was a 
member of LAUTRO at the time so this advice was covered by LAUTROs rules.
LAUTRO set out a code of conduct for advisers to abide by when dealing with customers. 
The over- riding principle was that advisers were required to exercise due skill, care and 
diligence and deal fairly with investors.
The code of conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included:
 L.6 (a) shall give the investor all information relevant to those dealings and that 
information shall in particular include the information referred to in paragraph 6A below;
(b)shall use his best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature 
of any risks involved; 
(c)shall not make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investment contracts or of any 
other method of saving or investment, or of any occupational pension scheme or the 
State earnings- related pension scheme 
L8. (1) A company representative shall, in advising an investor as to the suitability for 
that investor of any investment contract, have regard, in particular, to the investors 
financial position generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension 
scheme or the State earnings-related pension scheme, (if such rights are relevant in the 
particular case) and to all other relevant circumstances; and he shall use his best 
endeavours to ensure 
a) that he recommends only that contract or those contracts which are suited to 
that investor 
There were also common law requirements: not to make negligent mis-statements; to 
disclose all material information (where information was given); to advise with reasonable 
skill and care (where advice was given).
I've taken these into account. But as I consider the LAUTRO rules to have closely mirrored 
these requirements and to have imposed higher standards, Ive focused on the LAUTRO 
standards when looking at the advice given to Mr N in 1988.
Context around SERPS
At the time of advice, the government had only recently decided to allow individuals via an 
appropriate personal pension to contract-out of SERPS.
The Government wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was 
provided and it wanted to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. To do 
so, a critical issue to decide was the level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set too low 
then the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment within 
the personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would be 
paying more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking 
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). When contracting-out began, 
the GADs recommendations on the rebate levels were criticised as being too generous. 
Nevertheless, in addition to the rebate level suggested by GAD, the government added 
an additional 2% annual incentive payment, that would apply until 1993.
The rebate % level was set as standard for all. This however, meant it was less beneficial 
for older people, as they had less time before retirement to benefit from investment growth 
on their rebates. So for older people the comparative benefit given up in SERPS likely 
would outweigh that received by contracting-out.
The Government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and 
for whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial, this was for the market to consider. But it was clear to all, that age was the key factor.
So the actuaries at pension providers, carried out comparisons of the projected 
benefits from SERPS (based on the National Earnings index) against its alternative 
personal pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future 
investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed, 
were called pivotal ages. Some also used a lower earnings limit which was used to 
determine whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from 
contracting-out.
At the time the Bank of England base rate was fluctuating between 9 and 10%, so rates of 
return were high. And it was generally expected that the rates of return within a personal 
pension would likely outstrip the guaranteed benefits within SERPS for those below the 
pivotal age in that particular year. And the Government deliberately set rebates at a level 
that would encourage people to contract-out.
LAUTRO had received requests to specify the pivotal ages itself but declined. And put the 
emphasis back on product providers to establish their own pivotal ages based on their 
own product terms and charges.
Within its bulletins LAUTRO said it believed firms should provide their representatives with 
clear indications based on appropriate actuarial assumptions of what the pivotal ages were 
for men and women when giving advice. But it reminded its members of the principle of 
best advice and in particular point 8.1 of its code of conduct, to take into account an 
individuals circumstances. This was in relation to some of its members commercial 
advertisements not giving any indication to whom contracting-out may not be suitable for.
What Hill Samuel (Phoenix) did at the time
It doesnt appear that Hill Samuel set a minimum earnings limit, if it did, we dont know what 
it was and Phoenix has been unable to confirm a figure. But Mr Ns salary at the time is 
above the minimum salaries of firms we do have data for from that time. And so he wouldve 
been earning enough to receive rebates. Furthermore, Hill Samuels SERPS brochure states 
what rebates will be received at certain salaries  the graph begins at £5,000 and Mr N 
earned in excess of this. 
Hill Samuel set their pivotal age for men in 1988 as 45. Ive checked the criteria drawn up at 
the time by 34 other professional actuarial teams from other pension providers that we have 
data for (the criteria was not the same across these providers). And many of the pivotal ages 
for men at the time were higher than this. 
Furthermore, in response to a Parliamentary question following the decision to allow 
individuals to contract-out of SERPS, the GAD produced calculations for men and women 
contracting out in 1988 to illustrate what it felt the pivotal age was. For men aged 40 in 
1988, GAD said that the pivotal age was likely to be 45 based on the LAUTRO specified 
lower rate of return and 48 on the higher.
So I think Hill Samuels criteria was fair and reasonable at the time and met the standards 
required of it. And Mr N met that criteria.  
The specifics of Mr Ns sale
Mr Ns representative hasnt provided evidence or arguments specific to Mr Ns case to 
support his assertions about contracting-out being unsuitable for him. Mr Ns representatives arguments essentially boil down to contracting-out of SERPS was 
unsuitable across the board. I dont agree with that.
Mr Ns representative also says that the result of this advice is losses that stretch into the 
thousands. No evidence of this has been provided nor an approximate figure. So I dont 
know whether a loss has actually occurred. But a loss occurring doesnt mean the advice 
was unsuitable.
I note that Mr N contracted back into SERPS in 1993 on the advice of Hill Samuel, which 
wouldve been when he reached 45 years of age. This is in-line with the criteria Hill Samuel 
set in 1998 about when the pivotal age meant contracting-out would most likely not be 
beneficial. 
Mr Ns representative says that Mr N wasnt fully informed of all the relevant facts at the 
time, so that he could make an informed decision. But this sale took place a long time ago 
and so the information from the time is fairly limited as youd expect from an event 30+ years 
in the past. That theres not a full record now to show all the specific requirements were met 
is neither sinister nor surprising.
However, the documentation from the time about the policy, which I think on the balance of 
probabilities wouldve been shared with Mr N either by Hill Samuel themselves or his 
employer, made him aware that he was giving up the SERPS benefit in favour of an 
investment linked to returns. 
It also made clear that contracting-out didnt guarantee a positive outcome and that it wasnt 
right for everyone. It said, under the heading, should I consider opting out: 
Opting out of SERPS will not be the best course for everyone. Normally the decision will be 
based on your age. Broadly speaking if you are aged under about 45 (male) you could find 
it advantageous However, whether it is advantageous to contract out or not will also 
depend upon your personal circumstances.
I have very little to go on about how the advice was given and what was said. This was a 
GPP, so arranged through Mr Ns employers. But as a fact find of sorts was completed and it 
has an adviser declaration with a name beside it, I think a meeting most likely took place 
between Hill Samuel and Mr N. But records of what were said are limited to the information 
on the fact-find. 
Phoenix have said Mr N wouldve been given documentation at the point of sale that 
explained his policy was unit linked and not guaranteed. And that the amount paid at 
retirement was linked to performance of the fund to which the plan was linked. And this is 
backed up by the contents of its SERPS documentation from the time. And I think its most 
likely any discussion with Mr N wouldve included this information.
There was no specific requirement for the fees and charges to be highlighted during the 
sales process, although the consumer had to be given details of them in the documentation. 
Phoenix has sent us an example of the documentation relevant to this product at the time 
and this outlined the relevant fees and charges applicable with the legislation at the time.
From the information we do have, I dont think Hill Samuel (Phoenix) did anything wrong in 
what it likely presented to Mr N, and the information met the standards of the time and the 
rules set out by LAUTRO.
There is no record of what level of risk Mr N was prepared to take from the time. There 
werent the same specific requirements as there are today to complete a documented risk 
analysis.Whilst theres not enough information from the time to say whether Mr N wouldve had a 
cautious, balanced or high-risk appetite, theres nothing to suggest that Mr N was completely 
risk adverse either. And at the time of advice Mr N was some 25 years away from retirement, 
so he could afford to take some risk given the time he had until retirement. And I dont think 
the risk involved here was high, given the circumstances already explained.
Furthermore, whilst the benefits within SERPS had certain guarantees (as long as the 
government supported the arrangement that is), the amount of pension received and the 
performance mechanisms within SERPS were subject to change. With Mr N being 25 years 
from retirement, a lot could (and would) change within SERPS in that time. When Mr N 
contracted-out of SERPS, growth was linked to the national average earnings index. So 
performance wasnt guaranteed then either.
The opposing option, to contract-out, was at a time when rebates were set advantageously 
(for someone of Mr Ns circumstances) and likely rates of return above SERPS. Meaning in 
the forthcoming year(s) contracting-out had a good chance of outperforming the benefits that 
would otherwise have been built up within SERPS. Whilst there were many variables that 
could affect personal pension outcomes, Mr N was many years from retirement. And so he 
could afford to take some risk for potential higher returns. And contracting-out wasnt a 
permanent decision, Mr N couldve contracted back in the future and he did do so on the 
advice of Hill Samuel. So I dont agree with Mr Ns representative that this was only suitable 
for someone with a high-attitude to risk.
Based on the limited information we do have, I think the recommendation to contract-out 
looks broadly suitable for someone of Mr Ns circumstances at the time.
In saying the advice looked suitable for Mr N Ive taken into account:
that the risk involved at the time was low. Mr N contracted-out of SERPS in 
1988 which historically was the most favourable time, rebates were at their 
highest and had a 2% incentive added. And market returns were strong.
Mr N met the actuarial criteria drawn up by Hill Samuel (which as Ive 
explained above was reflective of what was widely considered reasonable at 
the time) for someone in 1988 that would likely benefit from contracting-out of 
SERPS.
I think its unlikely someone of Mr Ns age and circumstances, would have 
thought that the risk involved here was intolerable. It was fair to assume he 
would likely be better off contracting-out in that year. And contracting-out 
wasnt a lifelong decision hed be held too. He would always have the option to 
contract-back in, if conditions changed. And he did do so five years later on the 
advice of Hill Samuel.
In conclusion, I think Hill Samuel (Phoenix) used fair controls based on the financial 
environment at the time and the rules set out by LAUTRO, to establish whether it was likely 
Mr N would be better off contracting-out. Its pivotal age was in-line with the standards of the 
time. And it applied these in accordance to Mr Ns circumstances at the time. Mr N met the 
criteria of someone who would likely benefit from contracting-out of SERPS. And given all 
the correct information, I think he wouldve accepted the recommendation. So, I cannot now 
fairly say that the advice Mr N was given to contract-out was unsuitable.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman