DRN-3244759
The complaint
Mr V complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V holds legal expenses insurance provided by Amtrust. After leaving his employment he 
sought to make a claim on the policy as he was taking his former employer to an 
employment tribunal.
Amtrust declined cover for the claim. It said that the events leading to Mr V leaving his 
employment had started before the policy cover had started. It was suggested that he refer 
to an insurer that he held cover with prior to Amtrust. 
Mr V complained to Amtrust, and subsequently our service. Our investigator thought that 
Amtrust had acted fairly and in line with the policys terms and conditions. Mr V didnt agree, 
and so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Vs policy state There is no cover where the insured incident 
began to start or had started before you bought this insurance.
Insured incident is defined in the policy as The incident or the first of a series of incidents 
which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Any actions, incidents or events that are 
linked by cause or time shall be classed as one insured incident. Only one incident shall be 
deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related by 
cause or time.
Several points which are relevant to my considerations dont appear to be in dispute here:
Mr V resigned from his employment in September 2019.
Mr V had raised a grievance with his employer about bullying which was upheld in 
February 2019.
Mr Vs cover on the provided by Amtrust began in February 2019, after hed raised 
the grievance with his employer.
Im aware that Mr V says that the reasons for him leaving his employment, and pursuing the 
employment tribunal, was because of matters which occurred after the grievance was 
resolved. 
Weve been provided a copy of the judgment from the tribunal and from this Im satisfied that 
a direct link was made by the tribunal from the bullying incident, to Mr V raising a grievance 
and his treatment from his employer after hed raised the grievance. Mr Vs claim for 
constructive dismissal arose, from my interpretation of the judgment, from events linked back 
to the bullying.  I think its fair to say that the bullying incident (and the grievance raised 
following it) was the first incident which led to the claim. 
I consider that Amtrust could fairly rely on the exclusion for claims arising from incidents 
which occurred before the cover started. The evidence I have is that the incident giving rise 
to the claim occurred just under two weeks before this policy cover started. Amtrust has 
observed that Mr V had legal expenses insurance cover provided by a different insurer at 
that time, and suggested he pursue a claim with that insurer. I think its acted reasonably in 
doing so.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman