DRN-3660229
The complaint
Mr K complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) set up his appliance warranty 
in the incorrect name.
What happened
Mr K bought an appliance for one of his rental properties and took out an appliance warranty 
through the retailer. The policy was underwritten by D&G.
When Mr K received the documents, he saw the policy was in the name and address of his 
tenant. He called the retailer which directed him to ask D&G to make the necessary change. 
However, Mr K had trouble during the call with D&G because he wasn't the named 
policyholder. The D&G agent wouldnt change the policy into his name and refused to pass 
his complaint to a manager unless he provided more details.
Mr K complained to D&G.
After looking into his complaint, D&G apologised to Mr K for the poor service. However, D&G 
said it used the policy name and address as provided by the retailer, so it didnt think it was 
at fault for the original error. 
Mr K didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service, also raising further complaints 
about subsequent events.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. While she could see that D&G hadnt 
handled his call as well as it couldve done, she thought its apology was enough once it had 
corrected the policy details. Our investigator also explained to Mr K that she couldnt look 
into any new issues which D&G hadnt already been given an opportunity to respond to.
Mr K didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr K, Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. Ill explain why.
To begin with, Im going to be clear about what I can consider in my decision. My remit 
allows me to consider Mr Ks complaint up to the point D&G issued its final response letter, 
dated 11 January. Ordinarily Id say I cant consider anything which happened after that date 
because D&G must first have an opportunity to respond. However, I understand Mr Ks point 
here that it has had an opportunity while his complaint has been with this service. But, 
unless D&G gave me permission to consider the additional points, I simply cant comment on 
them. The rules under which this service operates dont allow me to. However, if Mr K 
remains unhappy with D&Gs response or lack thereof to his additional points, he may be 
able to bring another complaint to this service. So, Mr K has not been left in a position where 
his concerns wont be considered.
Moving on, Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint to D&G, which 
it responded to in its 11 January letter. Im not ging to comment on every event individually  
instead Ill consider the complaint as a whole.
Ive looked at the evidence D&G provided which shows the information the retailer provided 
it with for setting up the appliance warranty. The retailer provided the name and address of 
the tenant. So, on the face of it, I cant reasonably say D&G did anything wrong by setting up 
the policy in the tenants name.
When Mr K contacted D&G to ask for the policy name to be changed, he met with difficulty 
and theres no dispute about that. The agent who took his call didnt think it was appropriate 
to discuss the policy with someone other than the named policyholder. But the whole point of 
the call was that it had been set up incorrectly, so I can only imagine Mr Ks frustration. And 
so, the matter just became impossible to resolve during that call. As a side issue, Mr K 
asked for a call back from a manager, but met with resistance unless he provided further 
details.
Having considered Mr Ks complaint, I completely agree that D&G handled his call badly, 
and I note that D&G accepted that. Thinking about the impact it had on Mr K, I can see that it 
caused him frustration and some inconvenience in terms of time and effort to get the matter 
resolved. I can also see that D&G apologised for its mistakes, but Mr K says it hasnt offered 
any compensation. 
My role here is to put matters right, and D&G has already done that by amending the policy 
into Mr Ks name. I cant make matters right in terms of the frustration Mr 
K experienced, but I havent seen any evidence that there was a financial impact on him or a 
significant level of distress and inconvenience which would warrant compensation. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that D&Gs response, which was to amend the policy and apologise 
for its service shortfall, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I wont be asking D&G to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman