DRN-3582621
The complaint
Ms A complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled her application for a change of 
mortgage product and a decrease in the mortgage term at the end of 2021.
What happened
Ms A has a mortgage with HSBC and her mortgage product was coming to an end on 31 
October 2021.Ms A wanted to renew on a rate based on the loan to value ( LTV) of her 
property given a desktop valuation of £355,000. That would have meant an LTV of 70%. As 
she wanted to reduce the term HSBC required an on-site valuation. That came back as 
£325,000 and meant that with an LTV now greater than before, Ms A missed the rate she 
wanted. Ms A has several complaints:
1. Ms A disagrees with the valuation.
2. Because of the delay in handling the complaint Ms A went onto the standard variable 
rate (SVR) and hasnt been refunded the extra interest she paid as a result.
3. HSBC held onto the product fee of £999 although Ms A didnt get the product that 
she wanted.
4. Ms A has been treated unfairly by the bank because she wanted to reduce her 
mortgage term.
5. Ms A suffered an additional financial detriment by not having a right to have a 
complaint reviewed by us without there being a negative impact on her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she didnt feel 
that HSBC had done anything wrong. Ms A asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A was looking to fix her rate on a new mortgage product and to shorten the term of her 
mortgage. The problem was that the second application meant that there would be a change 
in the terms of her mortgage and under HSBCs processes this meant that there was an on-
site valuation of her property. Unfortunately, this resulted in a revaluation downwards from 
the desktop valuation and this meant that as the LTV had increased, she was unable to get 
the favourable rate that she hoped for.
In order to find for Ms A I have to find that HSBC did something wrong. But I cant see 
anything wrong whereby HSBC asked for a valuation when there was a change to the term 
of the mortgage. Thats what banks do to assess their security. The problem is that the 
desktop valuation differed from the on-site valuation which was lower. But the on-site 
valuation carried out a professional surveyor should be more accurate, and I cant fairly 
criticise HSBC for relying on the valuation carried out by a professional firm of valuers. Ms A 
has challenged the on-site valuation and HSBC has asked the valuers to review their 
valuation which they have stood by and given reasons for their position. 
I understand Ms A to be asking HSBC to step into the shoes of its valuers and weigh up the 
evidence itself. But HSBC is a bank involved in the process of lending money not in 
assessing the value of its security and in this case engaged a firm of professionally qualified 
valuers and I see nothing wrong in that. Nor can I accept Ms A suggestion that HSBCs 
intent by requiring an on-site valuation was to increase its profit by preventing her shortening 
its mortgage term. The actual valuation itself was not in its hands so it wouldnt have a 
control over the amount of the valuation - and whether it would be higher or lower than the 
desktop valuation - and so what the LTV arrived at would be..
The problem then facing Ms A is that she raised a complaint and waited for the outcome of 
that complaint before deciding on fixing her rate with a new mortgage product during which 
time she was on the SVR and then found that interest rates had increased. Ms A felt she 
was being forced onto the fixed rate because HSBC wouldnt cover the difference between 
the fixed rate and the SVR pending the outcome of the complaint.
But again, I dont find that HSBC had done anything wrong.  HSBC didnt advise her that it 
would hold the rate pending the outcome of the complaint and the complaint wasnt in any 
case upheld. If it were upheld there would be compensation, but I wouldnt expect HSBC to 
proceed on the assumption that the complaint would be upheld. I listened to a call in October 
2021 and I noted that no promises were made by HSBC about holding the rate and Mrs A 
was reminded that in a weeks time that the interest rate would go onto the SVR which it did. 
Later in the year, Ms A took out a new mortgage product at the rate then available and I see 
that the booking fee for the mortgage product was £999 so HSBC was entitled to retain that 
money for the new product fee. 
I do understand that Ms A was hopeful that she would have got a reduced mortgage term 
and a favourable interest rate and would be naturally disappointed that this hasnt worked 
out. But I cant fairly find HSBC at fault in how it handled this application and so, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman