DRN-3655442
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling of a 
claim made under her car insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss C was unfortunately involved in a hit and run car accident. She 
reported this to Advantage, her car insurance provider. She also gave them the details of 
witnesses who had seen the accident and the car involved.
Miss Cs car was declared a total loss and she was given the market value of her car, minus 
the excess and salvage fee (as she chose to keep her vehicle) in January 2021. 
However, it took until September 2021 for liability to be accepted by the third-party insurer 
(which also happened to be Advantage), the claim to be closed as non-fault and for Miss Cs 
excess to be reimbursed. 
Miss C is unhappy with Advantages handling of her claim and made several complaints. 
These were addressed by Advantage as follows:
4 March 2021 final response  miscommunication about the policy excess, 
communication issues and a lack of responses, and delays in appointing a case 
handler. £100 compensation was paid.
15 June 2021 final response  delays in contacting witnesses, not being sent an 
accident report form and delay in communication between the departments dealing 
with each of the parties claims. £125 compensation was paid.
23 August 2021 final response  an update on the claim and that liability was being 
disputed by the third party, but Miss Cs insurer were holding their stance and liability 
should be resolved soon.
10 October 2021 final response  the excess was refunded in two parts. Offered to 
cancel the cheque and refund to Miss Cs bank account.
As Miss C remained unhappy with matters overall, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things. She said that this service couldnt look into the complaint 
addressed by Advantage in March 2021 as Miss C had brought it to us outside the six 
months in which she had to do so, and there werent any exceptional circumstances that 
applied.
The investigator said the other final responses and complaint points were in our jurisdiction 
to consider. Along with additional concerns Miss C had raised about her policy being 
renewed and about her being dual insured for a period of time.
Ultimately the investigator concluded, for the points she could consider, that the 
compensation already paid by Advantage was reasonable. She didnt ask Advantage to do 
anything further.
Miss C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that I dont have the jurisdiction to consider the complaint addressed by 
Advantage in March 2021, and Ive issued a separate decision in relation to that, explaining 
the reasons why. So, I wont be commenting further on that complaint in this final decision.
In this final decision, Ill only be considering the complaint points which I do have jurisdiction 
to look at. This is the complaint points addressed by Advantage in the final response letters 
issued in June, August and October 2021, along with the additional complaint points about 
the policy being renewed and Miss C being dual insured.
Delays
Miss C has complained about the delays in Advantage contacting witnesses, along with the 
delays in the claim liability being decided.
Immediately following the accident in December 2020, Miss C obtained three witnesses 
details, and gave this information to Advantage. Miss C doesnt think Advantage was 
proactive in contacting the witnesses, which she says resulted in the liability decision taking 
much longer. She also wasnt sent an accident report form until June 2021, and Miss C 
believes this has also delayed the liability decision being reached.
In Advantages final response in June 2021, they said they hadnt chased the witnesses 
since the claim was first made and the service they had provided was poor. This was why 
they paid £125 compensation at the time.
However, when our investigator was looking into things, she thought the information 
provided by Advantage showed a different position to that in the final response  that the 
witnesses were actually being chased by Advantage.
Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties, and I agree that Advantages final 
response in June 2021 doesnt reflect the actual position or what was happening. The notes 
indicate the witnesses were actually being chased by Advantage on multiple occasions, 
between the claim being made and that final response. So, whilst Advantage said they 
werent being chased in error in the final response, Im satisfied they actually were actively 
being chased, and that Advantage hasnt acted unreasonably here. I also cant hold 
Advantage responsible for delays in the witnesses responding to Advantage. Miss C also wasnt sent an accident report form until June 2021. But as the witnesses were 
actually being chased prior to this, I cant conclude this has delayed the claim progressing as 
a result either.
Both drivers involved in the accident were coincidentally insured by Advantage. And each 
drivers claim was being handled by separate departments at Advantage, so as not to cause 
a conflict of interest, and to ensure independent negotiation took place on liability, as it would 
if the third party was with another insurer. So, for all intents and purposes, Advantage when 
dealing with Miss Cs claim was liaising with the other department as if they were a 
completely different insurer. But here, I can only consider Miss Cs direct relationship with 
her insurer when handling her claim. I cant consider how they were handling the third-party 
claim or what was happening in the background with the opposite party, as the relationship 
with Advantage there was with the third-party driver, not Miss C.
It does appear that there were some delays from Advantage whilst acting for Miss C, but 
they werent solely responsible for these. And it can take time for liability to be agreed. But I 
can see that Advantage responded to the third party to reject offers of split liability and to 
maintain their position in support of Miss C not being liable.
Whilst I note Miss C thinks that the claim shouldve been immediately settled non-fault due to 
her independent witnesses, motor insurance claims unfortunately do not operate in that way. 
Liability needs to be agreed and resolved before a claim is closed. And where a third-party 
disputes liability, this can result in matters taking longer.
Once liability was accepted by the third party, the claim was quickly closed as non-fault.
Whilst I appreciate Miss C wouldve liked the claim to be resolved sooner, I think the £125 
compensation already paid by Advantage is reasonable in the circumstances for any delays 
and/or poor service they were solely responsible for. I should also note that when deciding 
this, Ive also taken into account that Advantage were actually chasing witnesses, when 
theyd originally said they werent, and this was partly why they paid the previous 
compensation amount.
Excess refund
Miss C is unhappy that when the claim liability was resolved, there were issues with her 
excess being refunded. She only received £177 rather than the full £295 excess.
Advantage said there was an issue with the bank account verification. So, they issued the 
remainder of the amount by cheque.
The notes Ive been provided do support that Advantage was unable to verify Miss Cs bank 
account. And they raised a cheque for the remainder of the amount. But its unclear if there 
was an issue with verifying it, why a part payment was still able to be made.
But in any event, when Miss C raised this with Advantage, they said in their final response 
dated 10 October 2021:
What I can do for you if you havent cashed in the cheque is to cancel it and refund this 
payment back directly to your account. In order to do this I will need your account number 
and sort code. Once I have this, I can reissue it to you via faster payment.
And I think thats a reasonable action for Advantage to take when Miss C raised her 
concerns about receiving the payment in two parts.Dual Insurance
Miss C is also unhappy she had two policies with Advantage at the same time. She 
purchased a new policy and her existing policy was automatically renewed. 
Prior to Miss Cs renewal date, she was sent policy renewal documents, these outlined:
Your policy will renew automatically on 27th September 2021 based on these details.
And:
What happens next
Unless you tell us otherwise, well automatically renew your policy and your new cover will 
start on 27th September
Were here to help
If you dont want to automatically renew your policyplease contact us
However, Miss C didnt contact Advantage to stop the policy renewing. Instead, she took out 
a new policy separately with Advantage. Therefore, as Miss C took out a separate new 
policy, and didnt contact Advantage to stop her existing policy renewing  which she had 
notice of  I dont think Advantage acted unfairly in the circumstances.
In any event, when Miss C made Advantage aware of this, they cancelled the renewed 
policy and refunded the payment that had been taken. I think that was a fair action for 
Advantage to take when Miss C made them aware she had bought another policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman