DRN-4075451
The complaint
Mr X complains about Society of Lloyds (SoL) decision to apply a single indemnity limit to a 
number of claims hes made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr X held legal expenses insurance with SoL until December 2018. He made a number of 
claims on the policy, including two of particular relevance to my decision here. Claims were 
made against a housing association due to the condition of a property, one seeking the 
repair of the property and the other seeking compensation for personal injury.
SoL accepted these claims and funded Mr Xs legal costs, including a solicitor (H) and those 
of a surveyor appointed to give an opinion on the condition of the property and cause of 
issues found within it. 
In February 2019, after the policy cover had ended, SoL were informed by solicitors acting 
for Mr X on a related matter that he was seeking to take legal action against H and the 
surveyor, alleging professional negligence. 
SoL said a condition of the policy was that all claims had to be notified within the period of 
cover, but accepted Mr Xs claims as what it termed a gesture of goodwill. It said that as 
these claims had the same original cause as the earlier claims (the condition of the 
property), only one indemnity limit of £100,000 would apply.
Mr X subsequently made a complaint about SoLs conclusion that only one indemnity limit 
applied. When SoL rejected the complaint, he referred it to our service. Our investigator 
thought it was unreasonable to apply a single indemnity limit, and that the claims against H 
and the surveyor should be considered separate claims, each with their own indemnity. SoL 
didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Xs policy say: 
Following an event that is covered by this section the insurer will pay your legal costs & 
expenses up to £100,000 (or other sum as stated in this section) for all claims related by 
time or original cause, including the cost of appeals.
The terms and conditions go on to say that a claim must be reported to us during the period 
of insurance.
In light of the conditions above, I think the condition requiring that claims be notified within 
the period of insurance only becomes relevant here if the claim being notified has a separate 
original cause to any previously notified claim. I say this because where a claim has the 
same original cause as a previous claim, it is effectively treated as a continuation of that 
previous claim, as only one indemnity limit is applied. Where a newly notified matter is a 
continuation of an existing claim, its fair to say that the notification condition doesnt apply.
I therefore think SoL has incorrectly referred to its original acceptance of Mr Xs claim as a 
gesture of goodwill, when its fairer to refer to it as a continuation of the earlier claim. SoLs 
position is that one indemnity limit applies because the claims against the surveyor and H 
have the same original cause  effectively making these claims a continuation of the claims 
against the housing association. 
SoL says that even if I conclude that the claims against H and the surveyor have a different 
original cause to the claims against the housing association, it would be entitled to decline 
cover for such claims as they werent notified of them within the period of cover. At that 
point, SoL says it would be entitled to accept costs relating to those claims on a goodwill 
basis. Where a goodwill gesture is made, it wouldnt be for me to comment on how that 
applied.
What I need to do, therefore, is consider whether the claims against H and the surveyor 
should be considered as having the same original cause as the claims against the housing 
association, or whether they have a different original cause. If I conclude they have a 
different original cause, then I need to consider whether its fair and reasonable for the 
claims to be excluded from cover on the grounds of late notification.
The original cause
It isnt disputed that H and the surveyor gave advice in respect of Mr Xs claims against the 
housing association. It also isnt disputed that the cause of the claims against the housing 
association was the condition of the property.
Im satisfied that H and the surveyor should be considered distinct and wholly independent of 
not only each other but also the housing association. The advice given by each of them was 
given in a professional capacity, in line with their own expertise and qualifications. 
The action Mr X seeks to take against H and the surveyor is for professional negligence, as 
he alleges they didnt diligently discharge their duties when they gave advice. The outcome 
of such claims wouldnt impact the housing association, or resolve the issues at the property.
H and the surveyor gave advice on the claims being made against the housing association 
and the condition of the property respectively. That advice seems to me to be the original 
cause of the claims for professional negligence. I think its fair to say the original cause for a 
claim for professional negligence should be the advice or action which is alleged to have 
been negligent, as opposed to the matter which gives rise to that advice being given. What 
that means in this case is that the original cause should be the advice of H and the surveyor, 
not the condition of Mr Xs property.
I conclude that the claims against H and the surveyor should be considered separate from 
the claims against the housing association. They have different original causes.
The notification condition
I now need to decide whether its fair for SoL to exclude the new claims on the basis that 
they were notified after the policy cover ended.
On the face of it, the condition in the policy is clear that any claims have to be notified during 
the period of cover. However, I dont think its fair for SoL to rely on this condition here, for a 
number of reasons.The first is that the decision to end cover was taken by SoL  it wasnt that Mr X decided, at 
the end of the policy term to seek insurance elsewhere. SoL considered it no longer wished 
to insure Mr X, because of the number of claims that had been made. Mr X intended to 
continue being insured with SoL beyond December 2018, including the time when the claims 
were notified. If hed done so the notification condition wouldnt have been relevant.
Secondly, I note that while the policy cover ended in December 2018, SoL was notified of 
the claim in February 2019. It seems to me that the intention of the condition referred to is to 
prevent claims being notified, and covered, many months or even years, after the cover 
ended simply because the event occurred within the period of cover. That isnt the case 
here. The notification was a matter of weeks after SoL decided not to renew Mr Xs cover. It 
would seem to me unfair to exclude from cover a claim which was notified relatively closely 
to the end of policy cover. Im also conscious that the involvement of H and the surveyor 
went back a number of years, and were actions SoL was aware of, having been party to the 
claims which led to the advice being given.
Finally, the circumstances of Mr X need to be taken into consideration. SoL was aware of his 
and his wifes ill health and vulnerability. I note in particular that the claim was actually 
notified by solicitors acting on their behalf (and who were being funded by SoL in respect of 
other actions). This suggests to me that Mr Xs health issues were such as to render it 
difficult to notify SoL of the claim in accordance with the process and timescales stated in the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
In light of the above points, I conclude that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for SoL to seek to 
decline cover for claims against H and the surveyor on the basis that the claims werent 
notified during the period of cover.
Putting things right
Having concluded that the claims against H and the surveyor should be treated as separate 
from the earlier claims, with different original causes and thus having their own indemnity 
limit for each claim, and that it wouldnt be fair to rely on the notification condition, I need to 
say how SoL should put things right.
From the information available to me, SoL hasnt identified any other terms or conditions 
which limit the cover available to these claims, or exclude them from cover entirely. Im 
satisfied it should continue to assess and proceed with the claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. The claims against H and the surveyor should 
be considered separate from previous claims and each other, with their own indemnity limit 
respectively. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Xs complaint. In order to put things right, Society of 
Lloyds must consider Mr Xs claims against H and the surveyor as separate claims, each 
having their own indemnity limit, in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman