DRN-4362297
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) took too long to 
refund unauthorised payments on his account and gave him misleading information over the 
phone.
What happened
Around December last year, Mr M reported some unauthorised payments on his credit card. 
Hes unhappy that AMEX didnt refund the payments straight away, so he had to chase this 
up. Mr M says AMEX breached the relevant regulations by failing to issue the refund 
immediately. 
Mr M received a statement during the period he waited for the refund. He says he potentially 
faced having to pay towards the unauthorised transactions because AMEX failed to refund 
the payments on time. Mr M enquired with AMEX about this at the time and is unhappy he 
was given inaccurate information. Mr M says he had to manually adjust his payment for this 
statement period and then had to set up a direct debit again. He says this caused him stress 
and inconvenience.
In its response to his complaint. AMEX said it acted fairly and had adhered to all regulations. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked this service to get involved.
Our investigator agreed Mr M had been misinformed by AMEX about his direct debit and 
asked that AMEX pay him £50 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him. Although 
AMEX accepted this, Mr M felt £500 compensation would be a fairer reflection of the level of 
stress he experienced. Mr M asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision is to uphold this complaint and ask AMEX to pay Mr M £50 
compensation. I know this isnt in line with what Mr M is pursuing as compensation, so Ill 
explain why.
Mr M is correct to point out that, under the regulators guidance, AMEX is expected to refund 
unauthorised transactions in a timely manner. The regulator says refunds should be issued 
by the next business day. Mr M reported the unauthorised payments on 23 December, and I 
can see from the information AMEX sent that the refund was issued on 30 December. 
Although this appears to be unusually lengthy from Mr Ms point of view, I note that many of 
the days during this period werent business days. Given the time of year, there were more 
public holiday days in this particular week than what is typical. So I dont find it unreasonable 
that AMEX needed more time overall to issue a refund.
Moreover, even if AMEX had issued the refund the next business day, it wouldnt have 
affected the December statement Mr M received at the time  as this was generated 
overnight on the 27th-28th December. So Im satisfied there was no detriment caused by the 
extra time AMEX had taken to issue Mr M with a refund.
AMEX already accepts that it provided Mr M with inaccurate advice during one its calls with 
him  AMEX says it wrongly informed Mr M that his direct debit would be amended. Mr M 
was concerned about his upcoming direct debit payment as hed received his December 
statement before the refund was issued  so the statement included the unauthorised 
payments. Mr M says, had he not acted, he wouldve faced having to cover the cost of the 
unauthorised payments and wait around two weeks for a refund  so he feels he should be 
compensated accordingly. 
However, in reaching my decision on the level of compensation thats fair, I can only 
consider what actually happened and the impact of this  rather than the possibility of what 
couldve happened. I also must keep in mind that a portion of the stress Mr M experienced 
was most likely caused by the unauthorised payments and because hed been a victim of 
suspected fraud. So I can only consider any wrongdoing or unfairness on AMEXs part and 
the impact of this alone, rather than the overall stress Mr M experienced because of the 
wider circumstances. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms concerns at the time and that this likely caused him distress and 
inconvenience  given he had to contact AMEX and had to arrange to adjust his January 
2023 payment, as well as rearrange up his direct debit. However, I can see from the calls 
Mr M made to AMEX in December, he was informed that he wasnt expected to cover the 
cost of the unauthorised payments while AMEXs investigation continued; although, as 
AMEX accepts, it did go on to provide inaccurate advice. Ultimately, Mr M was able to 
mitigate the potential financial impact on himself by taking steps to adjust his January 
payment. 
It seems then the impact on Mr M was the inconvenience he experienced by having to 
manually adjust his January payment and set up his direct debit again with his bank. I 
understand Mr M was concerned about the prospect of paying thousands more than he was 
liable for, but he was able to avoid this. Therefore, I think the compensation already 
recommended fairly reflects the degree of inconvenience Mr M experienced. 
So, for these reasons, Im satisfied that the £50 compensation recommended by our 
investigator is fair. 
Putting things right
AMEX unfairly caused Mr M inconvenience by providing him with inaccurate advice over the 
phone. To put things right, it should pay Mr M £50. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. American Express Services 
Europe Limited should settle this complaint by paying Mr M £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman