DRN-3541871
The complaint
Mr R complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (China Taiping) didnt carry out an 
effective and lasting repair to his mobility scooter following a claim on his motor scooter 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had a motor scooter insurance policy with China Taiping which included cover for 
accidental damage. The policy had a limit of £1,249.
Mr R made claims on his policy in November 2018 and again in February 2019 following 
accidents with his motor scooter. Repairs were carried out in respect of both claims.
In around March 2019, China Taiping called Mr R to check he was happy with the repairs.    
Mr R said the second set of repairs were ok but the first werent. China Taiping said an 
engineer would call Mr R back to discuss his concerns. Then in May 2021, Mr R contacted 
China Taiping again about his unhappiness with the first set of repairs. 
China Taiping sent an engineer to look at Mr Rs motor scooter. The engineer said the 
bearings on both front wheels were worn out and there was rust on the front arms and 
chassis. His opinion was that the wheel bearings were broken due to wear and tear. Mr Rs 
policy didnt cover damage caused by wear and tear, so China Taiping said it wouldnt be 
doing any more repairs on Mr Rs motor scooter.
Unhappy with this, Mr R complained to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Rs complaint 
didnt uphold it at first. He said because Mr Rs policy didnt cover his motor scooter for 
damage caused by wear and tear, it was fair for China Taiping to turn down Mr Rs claim 
based on its engineers opinion. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigator, questioning the thoroughness of the engineers 
investigations and saying his motor scooter hadnt driven properly after the first set of 
repairs. Mr R also said China Taiping had discriminated against him.
Our investigator then asked China Taiping for a copy of all its contact history and system 
notes from when Mr R first claimed and for all claim notes and decisions relating to both 
claims. He also asked China Taiping if Mr R had raised the issue of discrimination with it.
Following China Taipings response, our investigator changed his view and upheld Mr Rs 
complaint. He said China Taiping hadnt given us any evidence to show what repairs were 
done to Mr Rs motor scooter following the accident in 2018 or that it had completed an 
effective and lasting repair. He recommended China Taiping put Mr R back in the position he 
shouldve been in after the first accident, so that he had a driveable scooter. He also 
recommended that China Taiping pay Mr R £250 in compensation for not understanding his 
concerns when he explained he wasnt happy with how the scooter was riding. Our 
investigator didnt think Mr R had been discriminated against.
China Taiping disagrees with our investigator. It says it got an invoice to indicate completion 
of the job along with satisfaction from the customer. China Taiping says the original work 
came with a 12-month parts guarantee, so if Mr R  had found damage consistent with the 
original accident he should not have signed the satisfaction form and could have returned it 
in that period to the engineer where he originally took it. China Taiping also says there was 
a delay in Mr R making a complaint about the first set of repairs.
So Mr Rs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Where, as in Mr Rs case, an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repairing damage, we 
expect it to indemnify the consumer by carrying out an effective and lasting repair. To be 
effective, the repair must fully put right the damage. And to be lasting, it must do so for an 
appropriate amount of time (which will depend on whats being repaired).
So thats what Ive looked at in Mr Rs case. But the information Ive got about his claims is 
very limited. Ive seen a copy of the first claim form Mr R sent in dated 18 December 2018, in 
which he describes the damage to the motor scooter from the first accident. As Ive 
mentioned, as part of our investigation, we also asked China Taiping to send us all the 
information it had about Mr Rs claims  contact history, system notes, claim notes and 
decisions relating to both claims. 
Apart from one call recording with Mr R, China Taiping hasnt given us much information 
about what happened at the time. So, apart from Mr Rs description, I dont know what 
damage the motor scooter suffered in November 2018. Nor do I know what repairs were 
carried out following the claim. Without knowing what repairs were done, theres no way for 
me to establish China Taiping carried out an effective and lasting repair on Mr Rs motor 
scooter which, as Ive said, is what Id expect China Taiping to do under Mr Rs insurance 
policy. Its on this basis that Im upholding Mr Rs complaint on this point. And its for this 
reason that I direct China Taiping to assess and repair any claim-related damage to Mr Rs 
motor scooter from the 2018 accident up to Mr Rs policy limit of £1,249 or, if it wishes, pay 
Mr R the cash equivalent of the cost of repairs.
As Ive already mentioned, in response to our investigators second view on Mr Rs 
complaint, China Taiping says Mr R indicated he was satisfied with the repairs, couldve 
claimed under the 12-month parts guarantee if hed wanted to and has delayed in bringing 
his complaint. But Ive listened to the recording of China Taipings phone call with Mr R 
shortly after the second set of the repairs were carried out on his motor scooter. Mr R is 
clear in the call that hes unhappy with the first set of repairs. The call ends with the call 
handler telling Mr R an engineer will call him back to discuss his concerns. 
We dont have any information to show China Taipings engineer called Mr R back or, if an 
engineer did call, what the outcome of their discussions was. From the time of China 
Taipings call to Mr R in around March 2019, I have no information to show China Taiping did 
anything to deal with the concerns Mr R raised in that call until he raised them again in May 
2021. So China Taipings response to our investigators second view doesnt change my 
conclusions on this complaint.From what Mr R says, China Taipings handling of his claim has caused him distress and 
inconvenience. Its clear from the correspondence Ive seen on Mr Rs case file that hes 
suffered stress and anxiety because of China Taipings prolonged failure to address his 
concerns with the first set of repairs. And hes also had the practical inconvenience of not 
being able to use his motor scooter for his everyday needs for a long time. In these 
circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable that China Taping should pay Mr R £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Mr R says China Taiping has discriminated against him given the problems hes had. While I 
understand Mr R thinks China Taiping has treated him unfairly in relation to his claim, having 
looked at the information Ive got, I cant say China Taiping has discriminated against him.
In response to our investigators second view on this complaint, Mr R has told us he suffered 
personal injury riding his motor scooter after the first set of repairs (which he says caused his 
second accident in February 2019). I think Mr R is looking to China Taiping to pay significant 
damages for the pain and suffering he says this caused him. While Im very sorry Mr R was 
hurt, we at this service dont award damages for personal injury. These are matters best 
dealt with by the courts and so, if Mr R wants to take this forward, I think hell need to look at 
taking court action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd to:
Assess and repair any claim-related damage to Mr Rs motor scooter from the 2018 
accident up to Mr Rs policy limit of £1,249 or, if it wishes, pay Mr R the cash 
equivalent of the cost of repairs.
Pay Mr R £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his 
claim has caused him. China Taiping should pay this sum within 28 days of the date 
we tell it Mr R has accepted my final decision. If China Taiping doesnt do this, it must 
pay interest at the rate of 8% per year simple on this sum from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman