DRN-3843726
The complaint
Mr F complains that his landlord policy insurer, Zurich Insurance PLC, has unfairly declined 
his claim for a broken door lock and provided very poor service during the claim. References 
to Zurich include its agents.
  
What happened
Mr F said his door lock was accidentally broken at his property, which he reported to Zurich 
on 22 June 2022. On 1 July Zurich emailed him to say it was sending someone out to quote 
for a replacement, but given the costs Mr F had submitted this may not be like for like. Mr F 
lives abroad and provided two contacts, but said they werent contacted. Mr F told Zurich 
about this and said he wanted a door mechanism from the same manufacturer as his current 
one. He said Zurich then told him that there was a chance his claim may not be accepted. 
Mr F said he had to chase Zurich up on 11 July and following this Zurich declined his claim 
on the basis that the lock failed due to mechanical failure. Mr F said he had previously 
forwarded Zurich emails and a video from third parties stating it was an accident and an 
explanation of how the lock worked. He emailed Zurich of his disagreement of its desk 
review decision.
Zurich told Mr F it wouldnt usually send someone out where its obvious a claim wouldnt be 
covered, and this would negatively affect his claims history. Mr F said Zurich had told him it 
would send someone out, but got no response to his questions. Zurich then acknowledged 
that its decision had been taken without any additional evidence to see if the damage might 
have been caused accidentally, and it would appoint an expert to establish what happened. 
Zurich didnt agree with Mr F that it had delayed its replies to his emails, but it apologised for 
declining the claim prematurely without visiting his property. 
Mr F did not accept Zurichs nominated specialist company as independent asking Zurich 
how often this company did work for Zurich. Mr F said he received no reply to this or his 
follow-up emails. Mr F told Zurich he was unhappy with its lack of service. He said the 
manufacturer of his current lock had given its opinion that it isnt possible to establish the 
cause and that it had been contacted by Zurich, but Zurich wouldnt confirm this. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. He said a temporary lock cost him £360 and he 
had an offer of over £6,500 for the single unit of lock, handle and door. He understood his 
policy limited his claim to £5,000. Mr F said his time, worry and stress should be generously 
compensated and once his claim was resolved he wanted to cancel the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Zurich had declined the 
claim in accordance with the terms of the policy and acted fairly in advising an expert should 
establish the cause of damage. He didnt agree with Mr F that an independent expert should 
be appointed to establish the cause of damage as there was no expert evidence from Mr F. 
However, he said if Zurich can appoint an independent expert they should.
Mr F disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said his claim was declined without inspection and then Zurich wanted a preferred supplier 
to review the damage that wouldnt be independent. He said hed been treated unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F complains that Zurich declined his claim without an inspection. I can see that Zurich 
spoke to the door lock manufacturer, but I think it should have made good on its message to 
Mr F that it would send someone out to see about the cause of the damage, and Im pleased 
it reversed its decision about this. 
Insurers aim to control costs on claims, and they do this by using contracted experts and 
workers. This isnt unfair of itself, and we review the reports in these circumstances as part 
of our consideration of a complaint and we seek to identify any bias. And so I dont think it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Zurich to propose an appropriately specialist firm to consider 
the cause of the damage to Mr Fs lock, whether or not that firm had carried out work for 
Zurich previously. Its a commercial decision that Zurich is entitled to take. 
If Mr F decides to allow this firm to inspect his lock, and I have seen he wants to have an 
inspection, he should contact Zurich to make arrangements. If he then disagrees with the 
findings about the cause of the damage, it is open to him to bring a further complaint about 
this if he wishes, or employ an expert of his choosing to review the damage. 
Mr F said his contact told him the tenants damaged the lock by accident, by forcing the lock. 
Mr F says no one can prove that this wasnt an accident. The onus, when making a claim for 
loss or damage, is on the policyholder to prove the damage has occurred and that it falls 
within one of the perils within the policy, in this case the Accidental Damage cover.  
Unfortunately Mr F hasnt provided any expert evidence about the damage and has nothing 
from his tenants about what happened when the lock failed. On this basis it wouldnt be fair 
for me to require Zurich to pay the claim at this point. I also think it was reasonable for Zurich 
to work on the assumption that it is more likely than not in these circumstances that a lock 
would break due to mechanical failure rather than an accident. But I havent seen anything to 
substantiate this from a qualified locksmith. 
I can see that Mr F is aggrieved at what he views as unfair and impertinent treatment by 
Zurich. However, from my review of the communications between the parties I think they 
were in line with what I normally see during the claim handling process, though Im sorry to 
see the offence caused to Mr F. 
Having reviewed the timeline of events and all of the many communications between the 
parties, I have concluded that Zurich handled Mr Fs claim satisfactorily and I havent seen 
that it caused unreasonable delays. I think Zurich initially misled Mr F about a visit but 
corrected this not long afterwards and I think its apology is sufficient.  
Overall I think that Zurich has treated Mr F fairly and reasonably and I havent concluded that 
Zurich should pay Mr F compensation for his experience and complaint. I realise this 
decision will be a disappointment to Mr F and if he decides to reject it other options for 
pursuing his complaint such as legal action remain open to him. My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman