DRN-3081874
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his account and didnt lift the block 
despite him asking them to. He was unhappy with the customer service he was provided by 
staff at different branches and when he called Nationwide to try and sort things out.
I am aware Mr W has another complaint with our service about the issuing of a new card and 
that will be dealt with separately.
What happened
Mr W had an account with Nationwide.
Mr W requested that Nationwide put a temporary block on his online banking as he was 
concerned that someone was accessing his account without his permission. He said hed 
call to have this removed when he found out what was happening. When Mr W called to 
have the block removed, he found a full block had been put on his account.
Although the account was blocked at the request of the account holder, in order to unblock 
the account Nationwide needed to assure themselves as to the identity of the person they 
were dealing with so asked Mr W to attend the branch with two forms of ID, including photo 
ID.
Mr W didnt think he should have to go into branch as his account was designed to be 
managed online. Following numerous calls, he went into branch and his account was 
unblocked.
Mr W raised a complaint, but his account was blocked again, and he had to visit the branch 
with identification a second time.
Mr W says he had multiple phone calls with Nationwide to try and resolve this, but he had to 
go back into branch where he says the staff were rude and unhelpful.
Mr W has said that this has been a very stressful and upsetting series of events and not 
being able to walk far makes visiting branches difficult. Mr W said he had no online banking 
for two months.
Mr W complained to Nationwide they said they were right to block the account to safeguard 
Mr Ws funds. They gave Mr W £50 compensation for the failures in customer service and 
the time he spent on the phone.
Unhappy with the response Mr W complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think this was a complaint our 
service could look at. She said looking at the evidence she thought the person who had 
brought the complaint to us wasnt Mr W the account holder.
As Mr W was unhappy with the view, he asked for an ombudsman decision.
I considered the evidence before me including ID documentation that we asked Mr W to 
provide to us. Based on all the evidence, I wasnt satisfied that Mr W was an eligible 
complainant. I said I was fairly certain that Mr Ws son A was bringing the complaint to us. 
And as Mr W hadnt given A authority to represent him, we were unable to look into the 
complaint.
Following on from this jurisdiction decision, Mr W responded to us. Our service had a 
conversation with Mr W and with A. Mr W gave permission to his son A to represent him. 
Following the conversation and the representative being appointed in this case. I have 
looked at the information again.
In my provisional decision I said:
Can we look at Mr Ws complaint
In my original provisional and jurisdiction decisions, I said I didnt think this complaint was 
one our rules allow the Financial Ombudsman Service to look at. On the evidence available 
to me at the time I was not satisfied that the person referring the complaint to us was a 
customer of the Nationwide.
As I mentioned in my decisions Mr W has a son. I have listened to a call with our service in 
which Mr W has given permission for his son to represent him in this complaint. I am 
satisfied that the person giving permission is Mr W and not anyone impersonating him. 
Because of this I am satisfied that the person bringing this complaint to us is Mr W and that 
he is an eligible complainant as he is the customer of Nationwide. I am also satisfied that he 
is willing to nominate his son as his representative and he is aware that his son (Who I will 
refer to as A) is representing him.
So, having reviewed the new evidence before me I am persuaded to re-open the complaint 
and consider the merits of the case.
Blocking of the account
As I am now able to consider the merits of the case, I have considered all the evidence 
provided to us regarding the original complaint. Based on what Ive seen I dont think that 
Nationwide have done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything.
Ill start by setting out some context for the blocking of Mr Ws account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, 
establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions, prevent fraud and ensure the 
security of the account. Businesses are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. These obligations override all other obligations.
I have considered that it was Mr W who originally asked Nationwide to block his account 
because he was concerned that someone was accessing his bank account. Faced with this 
information I am satisfied that Nationwide did the right thing by blocking the account to 
protect Mr Ws funds.
I have listened to numerous calls with the bank where it wasnt clear if the person calling was 
Mr W or someone impersonating him. I know the bank were concerned about the identity of 
who they were speaking to so despite Mr Ws assurances the bank needed to make sure 
that the person asking them to unblock the account was in fact Mr W. In order to do this, 
they had to ask him to provide identity documents and attend the branch.Considering the unusual situation, I am satisfied that the bank acted correctly in trying to 
protect Mr Ws funds and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Mr W has said he had to go into branch to show his ID documents a number of times. He 
has also said that his mobility issues make it difficult to go to branch and that is why he had 
an online account.
I appreciate that Mr W says he found it difficult to go into branch. Because of concerns that 
someone else had access to his account and was calling the bank impersonating Mr W, 
Nationwide had to ensure they were dealing with their customer and protecting their money 
from possible fraud. So, Nationwide had to be satisfied that they were dealing with their 
customer and not someone impersonating him and that is why they needed to ask Mr W to 
attend branch in person.
I appreciate Mr W was inconvenienced in having to go into branch and he has said that the 
account was an online account but I would expect Nationwide to require Mr W to attend 
branch in person in the circumstances so I dont think they have done anything wrong.
I appreciate A has been trying to help Mr W deal with his account but the bank, like us, have 
processes in place they must follow to ensure the protection of their customers money and 
make sure they are dealing with their customer.
I have considered that Nationwide offered Mr W £50 for the time he spent on the phone and 
the failures in customer service. Having considered the evidence, I think £50 is fair 
compensation in the circumstances and I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything else. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer that Mr W would have wanted, but I cant say fairly that 
Nationwide have done anything wrong.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr W and Nationwide have provided no further comments to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr W and Nationwide have not provided any further comments, I have 
nevertheless re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my 
mind and so my provisional findings stand.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman