DRN-3163104
The complaint
Mr D and Ms H complain about the interest rate that applies to their mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Our service cannot tell Barclays who it should give mortgages to, or the rates they 
should charge because they are commercial decisions for them to make. All we can 
comment on is whether Mr D and Mrs H were treated fairly  and by that, I mean, in 
the same way as any other customer with similar circumstances. Having reviewed 
everything, I am satisfied they were.
In October 2020, Mr D and Ms H switched mortgage products. Doing this doesnt 
normally involve the same level of assessment and checks as a remortgage. Thats 
because switching products generally happens when most aspects of the mortgage 
remain the same  and its often just the rate and period for when its fixed/variable 
that changes. So, its not uncommon for consumers to be able to switch products 
with their mortgage provider in situations where they might be unable to remortgage 
with them. Ive not seen anything that suggests Barclays switched Mr D and Ms Hs 
mortgage product without their consent. Its for this reason, I cant agree Barclays 
were unreasonable for approving the October 2020 product switch.
Mr D and Ms H switched to a mortgage product with a two-year fixed rate of 1.18%. 
Theyve complained that around that time, another bank offered a better rate. Ive not 
seen anything that suggests Barclays applied a different rate to the one they offered 
all their customers for the mortgage product Mr D and Ms H chose to switch to. So, 
I cant fairly say the interest rate they were given was unfair. Ultimately, it was for 
Mr D and Ms H to decide if they wanted to keep their mortgage with Barclays or 
make an application with another provider. As Mr D and Mrs H accepted the 1.18% 
rate when they switched products, I dont consider its reasonable to hold Barclays 
responsible if they felt they could get a better rate elsewhere but chose not to.
For these reasons, while I appreciate Mr D and Ms Hs frustrations, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr D and Ms Hs complaint about 
Barclays Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman