DRN-3786265
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund a transaction he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr Is partner received an email saying they had sold something they were selling 
online. After following the link, Mr I shared his card details and a onetime passcode  
he thought this was to receive the payment for the item theyd sold. 
Moments later, a card payment using Google Pay was made from Mr Is account for 
£2,299.67. Mr I raised this with Revolut. It declined to refund the payment  it said it 
couldnt proceed with a chargeback claim and it referred to its terms and conditions 
about sharing security details.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut seem to have accepted Mr I didnt authorise this transaction. I agree. As per 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017s description of when a payment is 
authorised, I dont think Mr I consented to it using the form and procedure that was 
agreed between him and Revolut. Instead, Mr I was tricked into sharing details which 
allowed a fraudster to add Google Pay to their device. The fraudster then made the 
transaction. 
In saying this, I have noted Revoluts comments that under chargeback rules, a 
payment that passed 3D Secure verification is authorised. But the transaction details 
dont suggest this was an online transaction, so Im not convinced that 3D Secure is 
relevant. 
So, in line with the PSRs, the starting position is that Revolut is liable for the 
unauthorised transaction. But Mr I can be held liable where he failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep his personalised 
security details safe.
Revolt hasnt suggested this happened because Mr I failed with intent. It noted he 
shared details with his partner, but it accepted he wouldve likely acted in the same 
way. Instead, Revolut submitted that Mr I failed with gross negligence. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded he did. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr I shared his card details as he thought they were needed to receive a payment for 
something he and his partner had sold. I dont think it sounds implausible that card 
details would be needed to receive a payment. Ive also considered that the webpage 
looked convincing  it had the online marketplaces name in the website address and 
referenced the specific item they were selling. So I dont think Mr I was significantly 
careless for sharing this information  I think lots of people wouldve done. 
After inputting the card details, the webpage asked for a onetime password that had 
been sent to Mr Is phone  it said this was to confirm his bank details. I can see how 
this sounded persuasive to him at the time  after all, people are genuinely asked for 
onetime passwords from various organisations to confirm their identity. And given 
that Mr I was primed to expect the password, I can see how he shared it without 
realising its actual purpose to set up Google Pay. I dont think it meant he seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk. 
So, in all, I think Mr I was tricked into sharing information by a clever and convincing 
scam  and Im not persuaded he failed with gross negligence. So, in line with the 
PSRs, I conclude that he isnt liable for the transaction and Revolut needs to put 
things right  by refunding his losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside 
interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Is complaint. Revolut Ltd must: 
Pay Mr I the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £2,299.67.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman