DRN-1493430
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs and Mr S hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Theyre 
unhappy that their first payment was taken on 16 August and then the next on 2 September.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S mortgage completed on 29 July 2019 and theyd opted to pay on the 1st of 
each month.
A payment of slightly over the normal monthly payment was collected by direct debit on 
16 August and Mrs and Mr S complained to Barclays.
Barclays rejected the complaint. It said it had sent a first payment notice on 26 July which 
explained how much the first payment would be and when it would be taken. It said the first 
payment was higher because it also included interest for the period of 29 July to 31 July, and 
that the next payment would be collected on 2 September and that would be the normal 
amount (it couldnt collect on 1 September as that was a Sunday).
Unhappy with Barclays response Mrs and Mr S referred their complaint to us. They said its 
unfair that Barclays is taking interest before its due and that the two payments were so close 
together.
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs and Mr S didnt agree 
saying theyd  like this case to be examined by an ombudsman with financial lending 
knowledge, so the case is with me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mrs and Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider 
to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
It seems at the centre of this complaint is a fundamental misunderstanding of how most mortgages 
work. Most mortgage lenders collect payments in advance (rather than in arrears). The payment 
Mrs and Mr S make on the 1st of each month is for the month its paid in; for example, a payment 
made on 1 June will be for 1 June to 30 June, its not to cover May.
Mrs and Mr S mortgage completed on 29 July 2019, so their first payment was due on 1 August 
2019 to pay for all of August and the few days at the end of July. Their first payment could never 
have been on 1 (or 2) September 2019 as that would mean their mortgage would be in arrears for 
the entire term, which would then be reported on their credit files as thats not how Barclays 
mortgages run.
Barclays sent Mrs and Mr S a first payment notice on 26 July 2019 which said a payment of 
£3,104.49 would be collected on 16 August 2019. It broke this down to be the regular monthly 
payment of £2,899.18 plus £205.31 interest for the few days in July. It explained the regular 
monthly payment would be collected from September 2019, and the direct debit would be collected 
from a current account ending *4696. The letter was correctly addressed and said to let Barclays 
know if the account the direct debit should be collected from was to be changed.
Mrs and Mr S have provided us with a copy of a letter they received dated 1 August 2019 which 
they say shows the first payment shouldnt have been collected until 2 September 2019. But that 
letter wasnt the first payment notice, it was a letter sent out in response to Mrs and Mr S altering 
the direct debit funding account. The letter says As requested, weve changed your bank details 
and quotes a new funding current account ending *7106. Whilst it says the direct debit will collect 
from that account from 2 September 2019, thats because it was too late to change the funding 
account for the 16 August payment, not because there was no payment due on 16 August.
Barclays sent the first payment notice to the correct address (and the same address as the letter 
sent on 1 August which Mrs and Mr S say they did receive) and in that it correctly explained how 
the first two payments would be collected. Mrs and Mr S could never have not paid anything in 
August as that would have left them in arrears on their mortgage, which would have been reported 
on their credit files. Mrs and Ms S have said the two payments were too close together, but they 
need to think of the 16 August payment as actually being collected two weeks late (as it was truly 
due on 1 August, for all of August).
Barclays has explained that it always collects the first payment on the 16th of the month, regardless 
of what date a borrower opts to make their normal payments. Were not the regulator and we cant 
order Barclays to change its systems. If Mrs and Mr S feel Barclays has breached any regulations 
such that it should be ordered to change its systems and policies, then theyre free to report that to 
the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  directly. The FCA doesnt deal with 
individual complaints so it may be that it doesnt respond in any detail to Mrs and Mr S. Here Im 
satisfied that Barclays did nothing wrong; it sent the first payment notice to Mrs and Mr S and 
collected the payments in line with how it chooses to manage its mortgages. That means, I cant 
find in Mrs and Mr S favour, however much theyd like me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman