DRN-3313374
The complaint
Miss W complained that her claim was unreasonably delayed by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss W made a claim to RSA early in November 2020 when her kitchen was damaged by a 
leak from her dishwasher. RSAs contractor inspected the damage and arranged for the 
kitchen to be professionally dried in January 2021 as Miss W didnt want disruption during 
Christmas.
However, Miss W experienced several delays in getting the works done to rectify the 
damage once the kitchen had been dried. Miss W said this was down to so many different 
contractors being involved and delays in getting appropriate approvals as Miss W said 
decisions were referred up the chain.
Miss W said she lost faith in RSAs ability to get the work done in a timely fashion. Miss W 
said she made numerous calls to [different representatives of RSA] over the last nine 
months and spent hours on the telephone trying to resolve the problemsthe issues have 
been numerous. So, around September 2021 Miss W accepted a settlement from RSA to 
allow her to take control of the rectification works and allow her to commission her own 
contractor.
RSA agreed excessive and avoidable delays in [Miss Ws] claim progressing have been 
incurred of approximately (but not exceeding) three months as well as causing further delay 
by not providing information to explain effectively the settlement. RSA paid Miss W £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that the delays caused. However, Miss W 
didnt think this was enough.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought the compensation paid by 
RSA was fair compensation for the delay between June and September 2021, but she didnt 
think RSA had considered the period before this, so she recommended increasing the 
compensation by £150. Miss W still didnt think this was enough compensation, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 17 January 2022. I said:
I have looked at the timeline of the claim to understand better what delays have occurred 
from the point the claim was raised to the point the claim was settled around September 
2021 and to get a feel for the amount of intervention required from Miss W to progress the 
claim. 
The claim progressed at a reasonable pace up to the point the kitchen was dried out. I can 
see some interaction took place between RSA and Miss W to clarify what cover was in place 
and how the policy worked, but I cant see any evidence at this point that there were any 
delays.
RSAs timeline of the claim shows there wasnt significant progress on the claim in the early 
part of January except for the drying out been done which was arranged prior to Christmas. 
This led to Miss W raising her complaint on 1 April 2021. She said, the claim was delayed, 
she hadnt been updated and its been an unpleasant experience.
The timeline evidences minimal activity on the claim until early June, although there are 
some brief notes about RSAs contractors still completing tasks on the claim. In June 2021, 
Miss W rejected a settlement of around £4,000 for the claim as she was expecting a figure in 
the region of £7,000-12,000.
I can see Miss W had to make numerous calls to RSA and its various contractors to try and 
get updates on her claim and to progress it. Each time Miss W received a less than 
satisfactory update. From reading RSAs own timeline, there was little progress on the claim 
until September 2021 until the claim was assigned to a new claims handler. At which point 
the settlement was agreed at £13,000. I can see some of the previous delay was down to 
internal problems with governance causing problems getting costs approved, 
misunderstandings with the costs (e.g. only including labour costs) and inefficiency sorting 
out what contribution was required by Miss W due to the policy terms.
RSA accepted it caused a three-month delay from June to September when it decided to 
pay £350 in compensation. However, I dont think it has considered the period of delay from 
January to June, when the progression of the claim was extremely slow. There will be some 
distress and inconvenience with any claim that is normal, as the damage to a property must 
be validated and necessary works need to be scoped, costed and agreed. However, the 
claim was first raised in November 2020 and a fair settlement was not put to Miss W until 
September 2021, some nine and half months later.
Therefore, I dont think £350 is enough compensation for the length of delay that has 
occurred. There is evidence that Miss W made numerous phone calls herself to progress 
this claim. She first raised a complaint in April 2021, and it took still a further five months 
before the claim was resolved fairly. I think the claim was handled poorly and RSA took an 
unreasonably long time to conclude it.
I have considered what impact these delays had on Miss W. Miss W said for the last 11 
months we have been living in a barely serviceable kitchen, with stripped out walls and no 
flooring as the original slate flooring had to be taken up. I have [given] hours of my time 
chasing up progress with the claim, which because of RSA's incompetence and there being 
so many other companies involved in the process has taken way longer than it should have 
done. I work full time and have caring commitments both of which are stressful. Having to 
constantly chase RSA and their contractors to sort out this claim has caused me significant 
stress and anxiety, and which is being further exacerbated as we now face another three 
months or so living in a partly stripped out kitchen.
The claim was cash settled in September 2021, so after this point any delays in agreeing 
contractors would be the responsibility of Miss W, so I cant hold RSA accountable for this. 
However, I do think RSA has caused avoidable delays and the claim shouldve been agreed 
far sooner. If the claim had progressed more smoothly, Miss W wouldve preferred to get the 
work completed by RSAs contractors. However, she felt this choice was taken away from 
her as she couldnt depend on RSA, so she had to find her own contractors. Im persuaded 
that the impact on Miss W wouldve been significant as the claim has been ongoing for nine 
and half months until it was settled. Furthermore, RSA didnt respond to Miss W when she 
raised her complaint in April 2021 when she was already showing signs of distress. 
Therefore, I intend to award compensation of £400 (thats in addition to the £350 that has been paid) as I think the impact of the RSAs delays has caused considerable distress, 
inconvenience and disruption that has taken a lot of effort for Miss W to sort out. The impact 
has also lasted many months. Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss W accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything else to add.
RSA reviewed the claim again and said I note that the property was not confirmed as dry 
until very late February 2021, and on that basis I cannot agree that the full period for 
additional compensation of January to June 2021 should be considered. On that basis, I feel 
an additional compensation award of £200 would be more appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said the timeline evidences minimal activity on the claim until 
early June. I dont think what has been said about drying impacts the overall distress and 
inconvenience Miss W wouldve suffered from RSAs actions.
As Ive not received any new information, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I intend to require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss W:
£400 additional compensation for distress and inconvenience that the delays have 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman