DRN-3290888
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a 
claim made on their travel insurance policy.
Any references to URV include its costs containment agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of a multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, 
which covered the period mid-September 2017 to mid-September 2018 (the policy).
In May 2018, whilst abroad in the USA, Mr B fell ill and attended the emergency department 
of a hospital (the medical facility). He had a scan, was prescribed medication and attended 
a follow up appointment the next day.
The medical facility invoiced him as follows:
- Invoice 1 - $36,493
- Invoice 2 - $1,786
- Invoice 3 - $204
Mr B made a claim on the policy for those costs. URV didnt pay the invoiced amounts in full. 
It paid:
- $1,622.73 in respect of invoice 1
- $268.60 in respect of invoice 2
- $89.90 in respect of invoice 3
Taking into account some modest amounts already paid to the medical facility by Mr B, this 
left around $35,000 outstanding (the outstanding amount).
Mr B was then chased for the outstanding amount by debt collectors instructed on
behalf of the medical facility (the debt collectors). Mr and Mrs B were unhappy that URV 
hadnt settled the outstanding amount.
Its URVs position that the amounts Mr B was charged for the medical care Mr B
received are excessive. It based this on Congress rates issued annually by the USA 
government which apply to certain USA residents, who qualify for Medicare. It said it made 
a reasonable payment to the medical facility by paying an amount in line with these rates 
together with a percentage uplift disclosed to our service.
In October 2020, an Ombudsman issued a final decision. She explained that didnt think 
URV had acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which it had handled Mr Bs claim up until 
that date. Taking all relevant considerations into account she found that URV hadnt 
attempted to negotiate with the medical facility or the debt collectors in the spirit of reaching 
a settlement of the outstanding amount. She said: 
Whilst nobody could suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement 
being achieved in every case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that it couldnt have been productive in this case. Before negotiation is 
abandoned in a case like this, I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and 
justify its position by reference to the particular items in dispute, take on board any 
response it receives and advance arguments addressed to the particular issues in 
dispute to try to persuade the healthcare provider to accept the sum being offered, or 
reach a mutually acceptable compromise.
I havent seen any evidence that URV has attempted to negotiate with the hospital or 
the debt collector. URV doesnt have the absolute right to partially settle or defend a 
case in accordance with its own practices or interests  it still must act fairly and 
reasonably when doing so  and must have regard to the interests of the 
policyholder.
I find the fact that URV made no attempt to negotiate with the hospital or its agent 
and no other attempt to have the amount of the debt ascertained by any form of 
dispute resolution process, contrary to both the regulatory guidance and good 
industry practice.
She went on to say:
Whilst I have seriously considered directing URV to pay the hospital bill in full, so as 
to bring this matter to conclusion, I am conscious that the bill is a sizeable one and 
that it may be that URV has grounds for obtaining a significant reduction (although it 
hasnt provided anything like enough evidence supporting its position for me to reach 
any finding to that effect).
On balance, I dont think that the stage has yet been reached in URVs handling of 
this claim where I should direct it to pay this bill in full. I consider that it is fair and 
reasonable to give URV a further opportunity to handle the negotiation or 
ascertainment of the debt more appropriately than it has so far in order to fix and pay 
Mr Bs liability.
The Ombudsman directed URV pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience URVs 
wrongdoing had caused Mr and Mrs B to the date of her final decision and to reimburse him 
for the payment he made directly to the hospital (in the region of $500) minus any excess 
together with 8% simple interest per year. Mr and Mrs B accepted the final decision.
In June 2021, Mr and Mrs B made a further complaint to our service. They said that although 
URV had paid the medical facility a further sum in region of $2,300, reducing the outstanding 
amount, the medical facility didnt accept this in full and final settlement of the outstanding 
amount. 
URV said that it had attempted to negotiate with the medical facility, but negotiations had 
now reached an impasse. It did offer Mr and Mrs B further compensation in the sum of £500 
for the further distress and inconvenience caused since October 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B want the outstanding amount settled. 
Our investigator looked into what happened since October 2020  and in particular the steps 
taken by URV to negotiate with the medical facility. She concluded that given how 
negotiations went, it shouldve become clear to URV in around June 2021,
that Mr and Mrs Bs liability to the medical facility was unlikely to be ascertained by 
negotiation alone. And that some type of adjudication needed to be explored. This wasnt done. And the delay in setting any such process in motion was unreasonable. She 
recommended that URV pay the remaining balance of the outstanding amount.
Our investigator also agreed that URVs offer to compensate Mr and Mrs B in the sum of 
£500 for the further distress and inconvenience experienced since October 2020 was fair 
and reasonable. 
URV disagreed. It confirmed it had nothing further to add. So, I have to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules, regulations and industry guidance
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook and URV is obliged to follow these.
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly. And Principle 8 says a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself
and its customers and between a customer and another client.
ICOBS 8.1.1R says an insurer must:
-handle claims promptly and fairly
-provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress
-settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the FCAs guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly.
The RPPD makes clear that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions,
on the customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time
of the claim; for insurers - and their agents - to engage diligently with medical
facilities (and their respective agents) to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively
seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. And this includes actively engaging in
negotiation.
Ill now consider what all this means in Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, focussing on what has 
happened since October 2020, after the Ombudsman issued her final decision. 
Negotiations with the medical facility and debt collectors
Looking at the correspondence Ive been provided, Im satisfied that URV promptly 
contacted the debt collectors in November 2020 to start negotiating the outstanding amount. 
Relying on the applicable Congressional rates, it maintained that it had made a reasonable 
payment to the medical facility by paying a certain percentage above this. It asked the debt collectors to explain why the invoices exceeded that rate, to understand how the invoices 
had been calculated. 
URV chased for a response in early January and early February 2021. On 8 February 2021, 
the debt collectors reiterated that URVs attempts to use Medicare rates as a starting 
benchmark was entirely incorrect. They referred back to longstanding correspondence on 
this issue on other cases and invited URV to provide it with a settlement offer to consider in 
order to resolve matters.
URV offered an additional 10% on top of what it had already paid  around $108. This was 
against the outstanding amount of around $35,000. 
The debt collectors replied asking URV to send a sensible payment proposal to which URV 
invited the debt collectors to make a proposal in mid-March 2021.
The debt collectors then offered a 10% discount of the amount invoiced. 
URV replied at the end of April 2021 setting out why it considered the outstanding amount  
the starting basis of the debt collectors negotiations  to be flawed. It focussed on invoice 1 
and said that even with a 10% discount this amounted to more than 56 times the amount it 
cost the medical facility to provide medical care to Mr B. 
URV proposed that the debt collectors ask the medical facility for evidence of the total costs 
it had incurred treating Mr B and evidence of the sums it would accept in settlement for 
similar treatment on behalf of others. URV concluded that if an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the parties could look at alternative resolution mechanisms. 
The debt collectors replied at the end of May 2021 reiterating that Medicare rates werent the 
applicable rates for comparison. Using these rates as a starting point was flawed. And that 
the medical facility wouldnt be disclosing the costs incurred in treating Mr B  or details of 
previously accepted settlements. It offered a discount of 15% of the total invoiced amounts, 
meaning that it would accept around $29,400 in settlement of the invoices. The offer was 
open for two weeks.
That offer was declined by URV in early June 2021. It restated its position that it used 
Medicare rates as an objective benchmark and applied a reasonable margin of profit above 
the base rate. It concluded by increasing its offer in respect of invoice 1 to $4,000 - so 
offering an additional payment of $2,377.27 (the additional payment) to settle the 
outstanding amount. The debt collectors replied saying this would not be considered as full 
payment to settle Mr Bs account for reasons already provided. 
Im satisfied that negotiations then reached an impasse in June/July 2021 with neither party 
altering its position further. But URV did make the additional payment.
Looking at the communications between URV and the debt collectors from November 2020 
to the end of April 2021, I dont think URVs handling of those discussions were in line with 
treating Mr B  as its customer  fairly.
When attempting to proactively negotiate the outstanding amount, I wouldve reasonably 
expected URV to have sent the email it sent to the debt collectors at the end of April 2021 
much earlier, rather than offering an additional $108. Its clear from the communications that 
followed thereafter that this wasnt a conducive way of commencing negotiations.
URV relied on the Congressional rates which are applicable to USA residents who have the 
benefit of Medicare. It then proceeded to reiterate the same points. In doing so, I think it effectively failed to engage in meaningful negotiation in the spirit of reaching a prompt 
compromise on the outstanding amount. If it had, and given the concessions made by the 
debt collectors in subsequent correspondence, I think its most likely it wouldve brought 
about a quick conclusion of the dispute. 
Im also satisfied that URVs failure to explore meaningful negotiation in this case isnt based
on any detailed representations to the medical facility and/or the debt collectors. Nor did it
rely on any specific features of Mr Bs claim. The basis of its negotiations was still a 
reflection of URVs general policy to pay the medical facility a certain percentage above the 
Congressional rates for the medical care and treatment Mr B received in the USA. 
But its clear from the communications that the debt collectors didnt accept that those rates 
constituted a valid benchmark from which URV ought to start its negotiation position  even 
with the percentage uplift URV paid above the base rates.
I havent been shown anything to convince me that the Congressional rates URV relied on 
this case established a valid benchmark for the fair market value of services provided 
outside the US Medicare/Medicaid systems to which they relate. So, Im not persuaded that 
for this reason alone the invoices were unreasonably excessive or out of line with what might 
reasonably be charged for non-American residents who dont have Medicare. So, I dont 
think URV acted fairly and reasonably by rigidly relying on its position when negotiating. And 
as Ive said, its clear that this wasnt conducive to reaching a mutually acceptable outcome.
Further, URV only focused on invoice 1 when negotiating and didnt raise any new points 
about invoices 2 or 3 for the debt collectors to consider. 
The average cost to the medical facility for such treatment may have been much lower than 
it charged.  How much URV considers to be an appropriate profit margin for the medical 
treatment Mr B received when compared to the cost to it for providing the treatment isnt 
determinative but as the negotiations continued, I can understand why URV reasonably 
sought to raise this as an issue in order to advance negotiations.
However, I think by this stage  and largely due to the way in URV had handled negotiations 
up until that point  negotiations werent very conducive. And because they soon reached an 
impasse, Mr B is still vulnerable to being chased again for the remainder of the outstanding 
amount. And even if hes not, I can understand his worry that he might be. Even though URV 
has provided assurances that Mr B wont be responsible for any further sums that might be 
deemed payable, I can understand why hes concerned that he could be embroiled in legal 
proceedings through no fault of his own. 
As Ive said, URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required by the 
Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to Mr Bs interests and 
treating him fairly. And URV must also manage fairly any conflicts of interest between itself 
and its customers.  
When looking at the way in which URV has handled the claim since October 2020  and 
conducted negotiations - I dont think its done that here. I dont think URV has had due 
regard to Mr Bs interests; its unreasonably put its own commercial interests (to pay the 
least amount of money for the medical treatment Mr B received) above his interests as 
someone who has paid for travel cover and made a proper claim under it. 
As of June/July 2021, when negotiations reached an impasse and URV reasonably ought to 
have been aware that the outstanding amount wouldnt be settled by negation alone, it ought 
to have explored with the debt collectors or medical facility the option of more formal 
adjudication in order to move the issue forward without further delay  as it had intimated in its email with the debt collectors in April 2021. However, I cant see that URV mentioned this 
again after the offer of the additional payment was rejected by the debt collectors. 
I agree with our investigator that the delay in setting any such process in motion is 
unreasonable, given URVs regulatory obligations and duties owed to Mr and Mrs B. And Mr 
and Mrs Bs reasonable expectation that URV would show some urgency in resolving the 
issue  given their circumstances.
Given the amount of time the outstanding amount has been unpaid for, and now that 
negotiations have reached an impasse, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to delay 
matters further by giving URV another opportunity to negotiate the outstanding amount or 
exploring with the medical facility the option of more formal adjudication. Particularly given 
Mr Bs personal circumstances and the continuing worry this is all having on him and Mrs B. 
Afterall, the treatment took place over four years ago and this issue has been ongoing for a 
long time without resolution.
So, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Putting things right
Payment of the outstanding balance
As the invoice hasnt been agreed or adjudicated on, Im satisfied that there isnt an
ascertained legal liability on Mr and Mrs B to pay the outstanding amount to the medical 
facility. So URVs duty to indemnify them by paying the outstanding amount hasnt yet 
crystallised. But in this particular case, and for reasons already mentioned, Im satisfied that 
its fair and reasonable for URV to now make a further payment to the medical facility to the 
value of the outstanding amount (less the additional amount paid in the summer of 2021) to 
settle the invoices without further delay. 
Distress and inconvenience
URV has offered to pay Mr and Mrs B further compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience in the sum of £500.I understand that Mr and Mrs B havent received any 
further communications from the medical facility or debt collectors since October 2020. 
However, I accept that the issue not yet having been resolved  and knowing that settlement 
of the outstanding amount hasnt been reached - is likely to have caused them unnecessary 
worry. Im satisfied compensation £500 fairly reflects that. 
Summary
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell URV that Mr and Mrs B accepts this final 
decision, I direct it to pay:
A. the outstanding amount to the medical facility (if it hasnt successfully negotiated a 
settlement of the outstanding amount with/on behalf of the medical facility by then); 
and
B. £500 to Mr and Mrs B as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman