The complaint
Mrs Ss complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, is about a life assurance 
policy she was advised to take out in 2003. In bringing her complaint Mrs S is represented 
by her son.
What happened
Mrs S met an adviser from Halifax in June 2003. He recommended that Mrs S take out a 
whole of life policy (a Flexible for Life Plan) which would provide a lump sum payment to 
her children in the event of her death. 
Mrs S accepted the recommendation and opted for the maximum cover policy. The plan 
provided life cover but also had an investment element that was unit-linked. The sum 
assured was £248,000 and the monthly premium was £381.40. 
The plan was reviewable which meant the cover and premium were set for the first 10 years, 
but then subject to review. Reviews would take place after 10 years and then every five 
years until Mrs S reached the age of 70 when the plan would be reviewed annually. 
Mrs S complains that the plan was unsuitable for her. She says she wasnt told how the plan 
worked and that it would be subject to reviews which could affect the premiums. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint. She thought the plan was suitable for Mrs S 
and didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. Mrs S disagrees and so Ive been asked to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue Ive looked at is whether the plan was suitable for Mrs S when she was 
advised to take it out. In doing so, Ive taken account of what Mrs S has said and the 
paperwork from the time that Halifax have provided. 
Mrs S has complained that the adviser filled in the paperwork. But thats not unusual and I 
note the adviser wrote to Mrs S shortly after the meeting with a report of their discussion and 
his recommendations. So, Im satisfied the documents are most likely an accurate record of 
the discussion between Mrs S and the adviser. 
At the time Mrs S took out the policy she was 56 and a widow with two non-dependent 
children. She told the adviser her priority was providing financial protection for her children in 
the future. She didnt want advice on other areas of financial planning. 
DRN-1780036From the questionnaire provided by Halifax, it appears the adviser asked Mrs S about her 
circumstances and financial situation. She had an interest only mortgage on her main 
property for £318,000. Mrs S also had an outstanding mortgage of £170,000 on a rental 
property. 
A couple of years earlier Mrs S had taken out a 20-year term assurance policy with a sum 
assured of £240,000. She also had an ISA with about £9,500 saved. 
Mrs S told the adviser that, although her children were financially independent, she wanted 
to ensure theyd receive a lump sum in the event of her death. That would give them the 
option of paying off the interest only mortgage and keeping the family home. 
The adviser noted that Mrs Ss outstanding mortgage debt was £248,000 higher than the 
sum assured on her existing term assurance policy. So, he recommended that Mrs S take 
out a life policy to cover the shortfall. Based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy 
met Mrs Ss needs.
Mrs S had a monthly income of £2,781. Allowing for her committed monthly expenditure and 
a contingency, Mrs S had up to £867 a month available as disposable income. During the 
meeting the adviser quoted a premium of £214.80 a month for the policy and recommended 
that it was affordable for Mrs S.
After the meeting the adviser processed Mrs Ss application and details were sent to the 
underwriter. As part of the application process, Mrs S underwent a medical examination and 
information was provided by her GP. Following that, Halifax told Mrs S the monthly premium 
would instead be £381.40 a month. 
Although the revised premium was significantly higher, the underwriters have confirmed this 
was in line with their criteria at the time, taking account of Mrs Ss medical condition and 
information received from her GP and examination. And based on the information about her 
income and expenditure, I think the policy was still affordable for her.
Mrs S has said she wasnt told the policy would be subject to reviews which could affect the 
premiums. And shes also said she wasnt made aware there was an investment element to 
the plan.
I cant be sure what the adviser told Mrs S during their meeting. But the report sent to Mrs S 
after the meeting said: We have agreed the plan should be arranged on a maximum cover 
basis and that you are prepared to accept a probable increase in the future cost of the plan.
Ive also seen a copy of the policy documents that Mrs S would likely have been given at the 
time. They make clear that the policy would be reviewed. And they say that with the 
maximum cover option the premiums would stay the same for the first ten years but almost 
certainly increase after that. 
The policy documents also explain that the plan had an investment element that was unit-
linked. The advisers report of his meeting with Mrs S said she was willing to accept such a 
plan and recognised that the value of the investment element could fluctuate. It also said 
theyd agreed Mrs Ss risk profile in this area was medium. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I think the adviser made clear to Mrs S that the plan had 
an investment element. And I think the funds that the plan was invested in were in line with 
Mrs Ss attitude to risk. I note also that information on the performance of the investment 
element was included in the annual reports that Mrs S was sent. Mrs S has said she had to take out the policy as part of her mortgage. But Ive not seen 
evidence that the policy was a requirement of Mrs S getting her mortgage. 
Mrs Ss son has also complained that she didnt received a letter from Halifax dated July 
2015. Halifax have said they wrote to Mrs S because shed asked them to provide quotes for 
the cover shed have if her monthly premium was reduced to either £150 or £200. I think its 
most likely Halifax sent this letter to Mrs S and I cant hold them responsible if she never 
received it.  
Overall, I think the life assurance policy met Mrs Ss needs and was affordable for her. Im 
therefore satisfied it was a suitable recommendation for her. And I think Halifax provided Mrs 
S with sufficiently clear information about how the plan would work.
Id like to reassure Mrs S that Ive looked carefully at everything she, and her son, have 
said. I realise this will be a disappointing decision for them, but I wont be upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint 
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Matthew Young
Ombudsman