DRN-4333380
The complaint
Ms D and Mr J are unhappy that debit cards issued by Metro Bank PLC didnt work.
What happened
Ms D and Mr J had a holiday booked in a European territory. Before the holiday, they
opened a Metro account because Metro didnt charge to use debit cards in Europe.
However, when Ms D and Mr J arrived on holiday, they found that the debit card issued to
Ms D didnt work. Ms D and Mr J werent happy about this, and they also werent happy that
when they returned to the UK and visited a Metro branch, Ms Ds debit card was replaced
but Mr Js debit card then immediately stopped working. So, they raised a complaint.
Metro apologised to Ms D and Mr J for what had happened and acknowledged that human
error had led to their respective cards not working properly. Metro resolved the issue so that
both Ms D and Mr J held working debit cards, and they made a payment of £75 to Ms D and
Mr J as compensation for any upset and inconvenience they may have incurred. Ms D and
Mr J werent satisfied with Metros response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their investigation, Metro
acknowledged that Ms D and Mr J had incurred a degree of trouble and upset that the £75
compensation paid to date didnt fairly account for. So, Metro offered to increase their
compensation payment by a further £175, so that the total compensation amount was £250.
Our investigator felt that Metros offer of increased compensation represented a fair
resolution to this complaint. However, Ms D and Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 August 2023 as follows:
Metro have explained that when Ms D and Mr J first opened the account, human error meant
the card that was issued to Mr J effectively superseded  and thus render useless  the card
that had already been issued to Ms D. This meant Ms D and Mr J only had one working card
between them when they went on holiday, rather than two as should have been the case.
It's clear from Ms D and Mr Js testimony that this had a detrimental effect on their holiday,
including that Ms D and Mr J had to contact Metro from overseas as well as that Ms D
needed to carry cash on her person  which she explained she was uncomfortable doing 
so that she could pay for purchases when she was apart from Mr J.
Furthermore, when Ms D and Mr J returned to the UK and visited a Metro branch to resolve
the issue, a further error meant the replacement card that was issued to Ms D effectively
superseded  and thus rendered useless  the previously working card held by Mr J. And
this meant that while Ms D and Mr J left Metros branch believing they both held working
cards, it was unfortunately again the case that only one of them did. And this led to further
frustration and upset for Ms D and Mr J when this fact was discovered shortly thereafter.
Metro have acknowledged that the £75 compensation they initially paid to Ms D and Mr J
didnt fairly account for the trouble and upset Ms D and Mr J experienced. And Metro offered
to pay a further £175 compensation, taking the total amount of compensation to £250.
Had it been the case that Metro had resolved Ms D and Mr Js issue at the time of their
branch visit upon their return to the UK, so that the £250 compensation was solely for the
frustration and worry Ms D and Mr J had experienced while on holiday, then I might feel that
this compensation was a fair amount. This is because I feel the disruption Ms D and Mr J
experienced while on holiday in and of itself fairly merits compensation of at least £250.
However, given that Metro unfortunately compounded an initial mistake with a further
mistake, which meant that Ms D and Mr Js initial attempt to resolve the situation upon
returning to the UK resulted in further exasperation and distress for them, I dont feel that a
total compensation amount of £250 is a fair amount in this instance.
As such, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint and instructing Metro to pay an
increased amount of £325 further compensation to Ms D and Mr J  instead of £175  so
that the total amount of compensation payable is £400. Which I feel more fairly reflects the
total amount of upset and inconvenience that Ms D and Mr J have experienced.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms D and Mr J and Metro the opportunity to 
respond and provide any comments they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
issues a final decision. However, neither Ms D and Mr J nor Metro provided and response. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here whereby I uphold this complaint in 
Ms D and Mr Js favour on the basis outlined above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold 
this complaint on that basis accordingly. 
Putting things right
Metro must pay a further £325 to Ms D and Mr J, for a total compensation amount of £400.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman