DRN-3577590
The complaint
Ms F complains about the advice JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) gave her to 
transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
Ms F was a deferred member of her former employers DB scheme. The scheme fund was in 
deficit. In 2010, in an effort to reduce the schemes size and volatility, its trustees offered an 
enhanced transfer value to scheme members. Ms Fs former employer engaged JLT to offer 
scheme members advice on the suitability of a transfer from the scheme. JLTs fees were 
met by the former employer and JLT did not receive any commission for arranging transfers 
from the scheme. 
JLT gathered information about Ms Fs entitlements from her DB scheme and received a 
transfer value analysis report based on Ms F retiring at ages 55 and 60. It asked Ms F to 
complete a fact find questionnaire. It noted that:
Ms F was 36 years old, single without dependents.
She had a mortgage on her home with an outstanding balance of around £113,000.
She had around £5,000 in savings.
She hoped to retire at age 65 with an annual income of £40,000.
She recorded her attitude to risk as balanced.
The scheme was offering a transfer value of £75,176, which included an 
enhancement of £6,834. The unenhanced transfer value was £68,341.
The scheme would pay her a yearly income in retirement of £7,177. 
The critical yield (the investment growth rate required each year to match the benefits 
of the DB scheme) for retirement at age 60 was 7.3% if Ms F invested the entire 
enhanced cash value without taking a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum. The critical 
yield reduced to 6.4% if she took TFC.
On 8 April 2010 JLT sent Ms F a report outlining its recommendations about the suitability of 
a transfer away from the DB scheme. It noted that the pension fund was in deficit and as a 
result the unenhanced transfer value (£68,341) was based on its equivalent pension 
protection fund (PPF) benefits. The PPF is a government scheme which protects the 
retirement income of DB scheme members if their former employer became insolvent or was 
unable to make up a deficit in scheme funding. It said the DB scheme was offering the 
opportunity for Ms F to take all or part of the enhancement figure (£6,834) as a lump sum, 
subject to tax and national insurance, immediately. It set out some of the benefits, risks and 
disadvantages of staying in or transferring out of the scheme and explained Ms Fs options. 
JLT recommended that Ms F transfer out of the DB scheme and into a personal pension 
plan for the following reasons:
The investment returns required, which it quoted as being 6.4% if Ms F invested the 
enhanced sum, and 6.8% if she didnt, were within the required range.
It would allow Ms F to boost her pension funding.
It would provide her with flexibility and personal control over the pension fund which it 
said was important to her.
If Ms F died before retirement age the death benefits from a personal pension would 
be more valuable to her beneficiaries. 
If she was still single when she retired then she might be able to buy a single life 
annuity giving a higher pension than the DB scheme provided, as the DB scheme 
automatically provides for a spouses pension.
The cost of the recommended personal pension was competitive at just 0.33% of the 
fund value.
The report said that if Ms F chose to transfer out of the DB scheme it was important that she 
reviewed her investments at least once a year. It said that if she wanted JLT to carry out that 
review there would be a charge for its service.
In terms of investment growth and critical yield the report said:
The highest return we can currently accept, as being reasonable for your risk profile and 
term to retirement is 7.3% per annum
And it added:
Therefore, we would recommend a transfer to a Stakeholder/Personal Pension Plan based 
purely on the financial results of Critical Yield calculations
The report went on to say that while the critical yield may be considered to be the prime 
factor influencing a potential transfer, other factors for Ms F to consider included, amongst 
other things:
The maximum lump sum TFC rules from a personal pension on retirement were 
simpler than those for the DB scheme with 25% of the personal pension fund being 
available as TFC.
If Ms F was to fall into ill-health and wished to retire early then she may be able to 
purchase an enhanced annuity using her personal pension funds.
On an unknown date (the version of the document I've seen is redacted and the date is 
illegible) JLTs actuaries provided an updated critical yield calculation which it reported as 
follows:
Our calculations have been completed to assess the impact on the critical yield of assuming 
that the member retires at age 65 rather than 60 and that the member does not commute 
their pension for a cash lump sum at retirement.
The results of the calculations are an increase in the critical yield from 6.4% to 7.0%. This 
compares to the hurdle rate provided of 7.3%.
In June 2010 Ms F completed the relevant forms to allow the transfer of her DB funds to a 
personal pension to go ahead.
 
In 2019 JLT contacted Ms F. It told her it was reviewing the advice it had given to her. In 
May and July 2021 JLT told Ms F it had completed the review, which hadn't raised any 
material issues concerning the suitability of that advice.In August 2021 Ms F complained to JLT. Amongst other things she said that JLTs advice 
was neither adequate nor comprehensive enough for her to make an informed decision, at 
the time, about transferring out of the DB scheme.
JLT didnt uphold Ms Fs complaint. It said, amongst other things, that:
The hurdle rate (a projected growth rate) of 7.3% was reasonable. Its review had 
confirmed that such a growth rate at the time was achievable and in fact it had 
rounded this hurdle rate down from 7.36%.
The hurdle rate was 0.36% higher than the critical yield of 7%, which reduced the risk 
of the transfer. JLT referred to the difference between the hurdle rate and the critical 
yield as a positive margin.
Its suitability report made it clear that Ms F could remain in the DB scheme.
The report explained how the PPF cap could apply to the DB scheme.
Ms F referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint 
and required JLT to pay compensation, including £250 to address her distress and 
inconvenience. Amongst other things our investigator noted that:
Ms F had a low capacity for loss so the guaranteed benefits offered by the DB 
scheme would have been important to her.
The DB scheme offered valuable benefits with virtually no risk.
The regulators guidance is that advising firms should start by assuming that a 
transfer away from a DB scheme is not suitable. That is unless there is contemporary 
evidence that the transfer is in the clients best interests. 
The critical yield was 7% and the discount rate (a projected growth rate published by 
this service) was 6.2% a year until Ms Fs retirement at age 60. And the regulators 
projections were 5%, 7%, and 9% for low, mid and upper projected growth rates 
respectively. As such, our investigator felt that Ms F was likely to be worse off in 
retirement by transferring out of the scheme. 
Based on the growth rates required the advice to transfer wasn't suitable.
While transferring out of the DB scheme gave Ms F more flexibility and control of her 
pension funds, as she was unlikely to be better off, those werent worth transferring 
out of the scheme for.
The DB scheme had the protection of the PPF. That was lost when she transferred 
out. Instead her personal pension was covered by a compensation scheme that 
would only cover up to £85,000 of losses. 
While Ms F had no partner or dependents at the time of the advice, and so didnt 
require the death benefits from the DB scheme, she also had no pressing need to 
transfer. 
There was no evidence that Ms F was in ill-health so the possibility of enhanced 
death benefits wasnt worthwhile giving up the guaranteed benefits of her DB scheme 
for.
Ms F had said she didnt wish to take TFC at retirement so access to this in a simpler 
version wasnt a reason to transfer out of the DB scheme. 
Both the DB scheme and the personal pension allowed early retirement so this also 
wasn't a reason to transfer. 
JLT didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things it 
said:
Ms Fs preferred retirement age was 65 and not 60.
Its actuaries had confirmed that if Ms F retired at 65 then the critical yield was 7%.
The hurdle rate of 7.3% its suitability report referred to was reasonable. The hurdle rate was 0.3% higher than the critical yield. 
Firms werent required to refer to our published discount rates and as such its not 
reasonable to prefer that figure to the hurdle rate. So it said our investigators primary 
basis for her conclusion was fundamentally incorrect. 
Ms F did not have a low capacity for loss. She had 27 years until her preferred 
retirement age of 65  and was planning on paying 4.5% of her salary into her new 
employers money purchase pension scheme. 
Ms Fs attitude to risk was balanced and the advice it gave was suitable as she was 
in a position to exceed the benefits from her DB scheme.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to this complaint and replying to our investigators assessment of it JLT has 
made a number of detailed points. Ive considered carefully everything its said. But in this 
decision I don't intend to address each and every point individually and instead will focus on 
the matters at the heart of Ms Fs complaint, JLTs disagreement with our investigator's 
assessment of it and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the regulators Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Groves actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Ms Fs best interests.
Financial viability 
When thinking about whether or not its in a clients best interests to transfer out of a DB 
scheme, often the most pressing consideration is whether or not a client will be better or 
worse off in retirement by doing so. So thats the first point I intend to consider. 
JLT has taken issue with our investigators reference to our published discount rates 
especially as these indicated that Ms Fs personal pension was unlikely to grow at a required 
rate to meet the benefits of her DB scheme. However, while I generally find discount rates a 
useful guide in assessing financial viability, given that firms weren't required to refer to them 
and it seems JLT didnt consider those, I dont intend to rely on them here. 
Instead JLTs said that the hurdle rate is a more useful indicator of likely growth and as that 
was 0.3% higher than the critical yield then this demonstrated that Ms F could be better off 
by transferring out of her DB scheme. But as I go on to explain, I'm not persuaded by JLTs 
analysis. 
Its notable that JLTs suitability report doesn't actually use the term hurdle rate at any point. 
What it does say is: 
The highest return we can currently accept, as being reasonable for your risk profile and 
term to retirement is 7.3% per annum
I'm satisfied that the highest return JLT was referring to was in fact the hurdle rate. In other 
words JLT projected that Ms Fs personal pension would grow at 7.3% a year. But, typically 
the calculation of hurdle rates don't factor-in the costs of fund charges or spousal benefits, 
and they also might not factor-in pension increases over time, which is a guarantee of the 
DB scheme. And the personal pension JLT recommended cost 0.33% of the fund value a 
year. So that charge alone, if not factored into the hurdle rate, would cancel out most of the 
positive margin between the hurdle rate and the critical yield. However, even if JLT did 
factor-in scheme and adviser charges when calculating the hurdle rate (and theres no 
evidence that it did), I still dont think this supports an analysis that Ms F would most likely be 
better off in retirement by transferring out of her DB scheme.
JLT pointed out that Ms F had said she wanted to retire at 65 and not 60. But its own 
suitability report and transfer value analysis reports don't ever mention her retiring at 65. The 
calculations in the transfer value report are all either for early retirement at age 55 or 
otherwise at 60. And given that Ms F gave no indication she wished to retire at 55 I think its 
fair to discount those figures. So, all the information JLT provided to Ms F was based on an 
incorrect assumption that she would retire at age 60. There isn't a single mention that I can 
find of her retiring at age 65 until it responded to her complaint. So, as far as I can see, the 
information that JLT gave to Ms F to inform her decision was all based on the wrong 
preferred retirement date. It follows that I dont think it gave her all the facts with which to 
make an informed decision about whether or not she wanted to transfer out of the DB 
scheme.
Its evident that at some point JLT realised it should have run a transfer value analysis for 
Ms Fs chosen retirement age of 65. And at that point it asked its actuaries to recalculate the 
critical yield for that retirement age. The actuaries response was as follows:Our calculations have been completed to assess the impact on the critical yield of assuming 
that the member retires at age 65 rather than 60 and that the member does not commute 
their pension for a cash lump sum at retirement.
The results of the calculations are an increase in the critical yield from 6.4% to 7.0%. This 
compares to the hurdle rate provided of 7.3%.
But I think those calculations are almost certainly wrong. Its actuaries said above that the 
critical yield at age 60 was 6.4%  without Ms F taking TFC at retirement. However, both 
JLTs transfer value analysis and suitability report say that the critical yield at age 60, without 
taking TFC is 7.3%. The figure only reduced to 6.4% if Ms F did take TFC. So the starting 
critical yield above should have been 7.3% and not 6.4%. And it seems likely that the 
actuaries have mistakenly recalculated the critical yield figure at age 65 with Ms F taking 
TFC. I dont have the actuarial tools to recalculate the correct critical yield myself, but given 
that it increased by 0.6% in the mistaken calculation above, I think its likely to have 
increased by a similar margin and as such would have gone above 7.3% and eroded any 
positive margin. And in those circumstances Ms F was more likely than not to be worse off 
by transferring out of the DB scheme.
However, even if my analysis above is wrong and the correct critical yield was 7% at age 65 
with a positive margin of 0.36%, I still dont think a recommendation for Ms F to transfer out 
of the scheme was suitable.
The DB scheme would provide Ms F with a guaranteed income at retirement for the rest of 
her life. That income was index linked and would increase each year. But the benefits from a 
personal pension are dependent on investment returns. That is they carry with them the risk 
that investments can go down as well as up. And Ms Fs personal pension plan would have 
to grow each year, at the critical yield of  at least  7% in order simply to match the benefits 
available to her from her DB scheme. And any period of poor or lower investment return 
performance could see her personal pension funds falling below the value of the DB 
scheme. 
Further there would be little point in Ms F giving up the guarantees available to her through 
her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But 
here, the critical yield was at least 7% and JLT felt that the highest return was likely to be 
7.3%. So I think Ms F was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with a balanced attitude to risk 
and regardless of her capacity for loss. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Ms Fs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Annuity
JLT said that one of the benefits of Ms F transferring out of the scheme was that, as a single 
person, she might be able to buy a more valuable annuity at retirement. It might help if I 
explain that Ms Fs DB scheme had guaranteed benefits for her spouse should she have one 
at the time of her death. But, if she were to remain single, then  at retirement  she could 
buy an annuity on what's known as a single life basis. That is a product that did not provide 
any benefits for a spouse and could therefore be more valuable in terms of her own income 
as a single person. But, at the time of JLTs advice, Ms F was still over 28 years from retirement age and so was 
unlikely to have known for certain if she would remain single until retirement. And even if she 
was planning to be single in retirement, given the length of time until that happened she had 
no reason to make any sort of decision about transferring out of her DB scheme at that time. 
If she decided she wanted to buy a single life annuity closer to retirement then that would be 
a decision she could make at that time. That is she could decide to transfer out of the DB 
scheme at a time when she could make an informed decision about what retirement income 
a single life annuity  if thats what she wanted  would pay to her compared against the 
benefits from her DB scheme. She had no good reason to make such a decision in 2010. So 
I don't think the prospects of a more valuable single life annuity in many years to come was 
a good enough reason to give up the benefits of her DB scheme for.
Flexibility and control
One of the reasons for JLTs recommendation to Ms F to transfer out of her DB scheme was 
because it would allow her the flexibility and control of her pension which it said was 
important to her. But its difficult to see how it weighed up just how important that was to 
her or whether it was worth giving up the benefits of her DB scheme for. 
I've noted that when completing JLTs fact find questionnaire Ms F ticked a box which said 
that she would prefer to move her pension to an individual plan that was under her control. 
But while shes given that as a preference theres no indication that this was of great 
importance to her. And that question wasnt put into the context of what she would be giving 
up in order to gain that flexibility and control. 
I've noted that Ms F said she would prefer to invest in ethical sectors. But I can't see that 
JLT explored this with her or indeed referred to it in its suitability report. I've seen no 
evidence in the available papers that flexible access to her DB pension fund was something 
that Ms F had any actual need for at the time of the advice. Thats because JLT hasn't 
recorded any reason why Ms F might need access to her DB funds before retirement age, or 
why accessing those funds flexibly would be worth giving up the guaranteed benefits her DB 
scheme offered her.
I also cant see evidence that Ms F had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement or before. And while I can understand that the ability to take control of 
investments and access funds flexibly might have been a preference for Ms F when she 
answered a question about it, that doesn't mean that meeting that preference was in her 
best interests. Thats because having that flexibility and control meant giving up guaranteed 
income at retirement age. And on top of that, Ms F would be taking on investment risk 
alongside charges for the personal pension and for any investment advice she decided to 
take. Those are charges that would potentially continue to reduce the size of Ms Fs pension 
fund but which wouldnt have been deducted from her DB scheme benefits had she 
remained in that. So I don't think the potential benefits of flexibility and control of her pension 
funds outweighed the benefits she would have to give up from her DB scheme.Death benefits 
JLT also said that if Ms F died before retirement age the death benefits from a personal 
pension would be more valuable for her beneficiaries than those provided by the DB 
scheme. That might be the case. But at the time of the advice Ms F wasnt suffering from 
any ill-health; and there was no indication she was likely to die before retirement age. So I 
can't see that this would have been a sufficient reason to give up a guaranteed income at 
retirement. The priority here was for JLT to advise Ms F about what was best for her 
retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I 
dont think JLT explored to what extent Ms F was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits. I dont think different death benefits available 
through a transfer to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits 
for Ms F.
Summary 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice JLT gave to Ms F was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Ms F was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So JLTs advice to transfer out of the scheme 
wasnt in her best interests. And I think JLT shouldve advised Ms F to remain in their DB 
scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Ms F would've gone ahead anyway, against JLTs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Ms F wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because Ms F was an 
inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk. So, if JLT had given her clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I 
think she would have accepted that advice.
Further, Ms Fs explained that the poor advice to transfer out of the scheme has been a 
source of distress and inconvenience for her, to address that I think JLT should pay her £250 
compensation.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for JLT to put Ms F, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Ms F would have most 
likely remained in her DB scheme if JLT had given suitable advice.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Ms F whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. She has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Ms F.
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms 
on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Ms F has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. And while she 
could have accessed her DB scheme at age 60 she has said that she only intended to do so 
from age 65. So, compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Fs acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms F within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Ms F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that JLT 
pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Ms F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Ms F any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Ms F any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Ms F the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms F.
If Ms F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman