DRN-3972005
The complaint
Miss K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc took an unaffordable payment from her current 
account towards her credit card. 
Miss K is unhappy with the way that HSBC has treated her saying shes suffered extreme 
mental distress as a result.
What happened
Miss K has a current account and credit card account with HSBC. After she experienced 
financial difficulties, Miss K asked HSBC to write off her outstanding overdraft and refund a 
payment that shed made towards her credit card. Miss K was unhappy that HSBC continued 
to write to her despite explaining her situation.
HSBC initially agreed that it would carry out a charitable write off of Miss Ks overdraft but 
then suspended the process pending further information from Miss K. HSBC didnt agree to 
refund Miss Ks credit card payment as it had been made correctly. 
The investigator agreed that it was reasonable for HSBC to require further information before 
deciding whether to proceed with the charitable write off.  She noted that although HSBC 
continued to contact Miss K, this was in response to the emails that she wrote to HSBC. 
The investigator didnt think HSBC needed to refund the credit card payment as Miss K 
made this voluntarily.
The investigator recommended that HSBC pay Miss K £150 in recognition of the distress 
and upset she felt after HSBC reversed its decision to write off her overdraft balance until 
she provided further information about her finances. 
Miss K is very unhappy with the investigation outcome. Miss K doesnt think that £150 
reflects the impact HSBCs decision to withdraw the charitable write off has had on her.   
Miss K wants HSBC to honour its decision to write off her overdraft and pay compensation. 
Miss K says HSBC has continually put up obstacles to resolving her concerns.
During Miss Ks complaint to this service, she raised a new issue about a £100 payment that 
her partner had sent to her HSBC account by mistake. Miss K wanted HSBC to return the 
payment but it refused. 
The investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything about this aspect of Miss Ks 
complaint. The investigator explained that although HSBC had re-opened Miss Ks account 
so that repayments could be made towards the balance, she wasnt able to use the account 
to make payments. The investigator suggested that Miss K contact the person who sent the 
payment to ask for it be recalled. Miss K was unhappy with the investigators response 
saying that her partner had followed the correct procedure and contacted HSBC.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Miss Ks complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I would first like to say that Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss K is going 
through. I can appreciate this has all taken a considerable toll on Miss Ks mental health. My 
role is to look at how HSBC responded to Miss Ks financial situation and decide whether it 
responded reasonably. 
As I understand it, HSBCs offer of a charitable write off would mean that there wouldnt be 
the same impact on Miss Ks credit file as there would be if HSBC defaulted her outstanding 
debt. However, for HSBC to properly consider whether a charitable write off is suitable, it has 
asked for evidence of any medical conditions which may impact Miss Ks ability to manage 
her money together with a clear picture of her finances and statements for the last three 
months for all Miss Ks current accounts  including those held with other banks.
I can understand Miss Ks disappointment when HSBC reversed its decision to carry out the 
charitable write off of the balance of her overdraft. However, I dont think this means that 
HSBC must now honour the original offer without Miss K first providing the further 
information it requested. 
When Miss K opened her account with HSBC in June 2022, she stated she was in 
employment with an annual income of £60,000. But apart from this, HSBC has little 
information about Miss Ks finances. The income and expenditure form she completed only 
has three entries on it. Even if Miss Ks partner is helping her financially, I wouldve expected 
to see some more detail about Miss Ks expenditure. Although Miss K says shes closed all 
her bank accounts, I dont think it's unreasonable for HSBC to ask to see either historic 
statements or closing balance statements. 
Miss K has provided some information from her doctor but it doesnt include a recent 
comprehensive explanation of how Miss Ks health is impacting her finances. The doctors 
letter of July 2022, details some of Miss Ks mental health illnesses but doesnt for example 
say that because of this, Miss K is unable to work. The only evidence that Miss K provided to 
HSBC of being unable to work dates to 2021 when her doctor completed a seven day sick 
note. I can see HSBC offered to cover the costs of Miss Ks doctor providing the information. 
I think this was a fair and reasonable offer to make. 
I agree with the investigator that its unfortunate HSBC didnt realise it needed the additional 
information before agreeing to the charitable write off. I dont doubt that the reversal had a 
negative impact on Miss Ks mental health but Im satisfied that an award of £150 in 
recognition of this negative impact is reasonable. Particularly when HSBC also offered other 
solutions to help Miss K which included writing off her debt by issuing a default notice or 
reinstating her overdraft facility on the basis that interest was suspended for 12 months. 
Like the investigator, I dont consider it reasonable to require HSBC to refund the payment 
Miss K made towards her credit card. She made this freely and in the knowledge that she 
couldve just made the minimum payment of under £20. 
Overall, its difficult for me to find that HSBC hasnt made reasonable attempts to try and 
help Miss K. This means I dont consider it fair to require HSBC to pay more compensation 
than the £150 Ive directed it to pay. If Miss K can provide the information HSBC has 
requested to support her request for a charitable write off, I would expect HSBC to treat her 
request reasonably. On the point that Miss K made about the £100 credit, as HSBC has explained, although it re-
opened her account, Miss K cant use it other than to reduce the balance on her overdraft. 
This also means Miss K doesnt have online access to the account. As Miss K cant pay the 
£100 credit out from her account, it would be for her partner to pursue repayment of the 
money probably through their own bank. And if her partner wasnt satisfied with the outcome, 
they could bring a complaint in their own name. Im sorry if this is disappointing for Miss K. 
In a recent email, Miss K said that HSBC should credit her account and provide her with a 
balance. It appears that Miss K wants HSBC to credit the compensation payment to her 
HSBC account so that it reduces the outstanding balance. But if Miss K accepts my decision 
and wants HSBC to pay the compensation to a different bank account, she should make that 
clear when responding to my decision.
Miss K says she asked HSBC for a balance but it said she should speak to this service. I 
dont see why HSBC cant provide Miss K with details of the remaining balance on her 
account once she responds to my decision. But if Miss K has any difficulty getting a balance 
from HSBC, she would need to raise this as a separate complaint as it didnt form part of her 
original complaint to this service. I hope Miss K understands. 
Putting things right
To put things right, HSBC should pay Miss K £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require HSBC 
Bank UK Plc to pay Miss K £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman