DRN-1048469
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the customer service TSB Bank plc gave him regarding the debit card 
attached to his current account, and with how long it took to respond to the subject access 
request he made.
What happened
Mr H received a new personal identification number (PIN) from TSB. He hadnt asked for a 
new PIN so he was concerned and complained to TSB on 18 February 2019. TSB said it 
had sent him a new debit card and PIN in error. It seems TSB sent this new debit card 
because Mr Hs original card had a too-long expiry date.
While Mr H had received the PIN, he hadnt received the card. And he didnt receive the 
replacement card TSB sent him either. Mr H was unhappy the cards had gone missing and 
concerned about his account security. TSB sent another replacement card but Mr H says 
this was identical to the card hed originally had, including the expiry date. Mr H called TSB 
and it sent another card, which he received.
On 8 March 2019 TSB gave Mr H its final response to his complaint. It said system errors 
meant it had sent a new card and PIN without Mr H requesting it. It confirmed Mr Hs 
account wasnt identified as one affected by any data breaches, but that if he had any 
evidence to the contrary it would consider it. TSB also said it had taken longer than normal 
to resolve Mr Hs complaint due to the volume of complaints it had received following IT 
disruption. TSB apologised and offered Mr H £100 for his distress and inconvenience and 
£50 for his calls costs  £150 in total. It also gave Mr H referral rights to our service.
Mr H found his new card wouldnt work with the PIN he had, which Mr H says left him without 
the use of his card and access to his funds for four days until TSB sent him a new PIN. So 
he asked TSB to reopen his complaint. TSB did this but couldnt give Mr H a timeframe for 
when his reopened complaint would be allocated to an agent. Over the next few months Mr 
H continued to contact TSB about his reopened complaint, and he also made a subject 
access request (SAR) to TSB. But on 4 July 2019 he brought his complaint to our service, 
as he thought TSB was taking too long to reopen his complaint and wasnt updating him 
about it as it should.
After looking into things, our investigator said £150 was reasonable compensation for the 
card problems. He said hed not seen enough evidence to say TSB was responsible for a 
data breach, as it sent the replacement cards to the correct address. He also said TSB 
hadnt passed Mr Hs SAR to the right department until Mr H chased TSB, but that since the 
SAR rules are set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) Mr H might want to 
discuss that with the ICO. Our investigator also said B didnt have to reopen the complaint as 
it had already given Mr H the right to bring his complaint to our service.
Mr H disagreed. He said TSB hadnt resolved the issue as he had to wait for another PIN. 
And TSB had reopened his complaint, after which he then had to call TSB at least another twenty times, which Mr H said he should be compensated for. Mr H says TSB agents lied to 
him - about the process, about which department was dealing with things, and by saying it 
would email Mr H.
Because Mr H disagreed, this complaint came to me for a decision. I asked TSB for further 
evidence about when it responded to his SAR request and which address it had sent the 
replacement cards to. TSB provided this.
After considering all the evidence, I contacted Mr H and TSB to share my thoughts. I said 
TSB had made some errors regarding Mr Hs card and PIN which caused him distress and 
inconvenience. But it had sent the replacement cards to the right address and Id not seen 
that the missing cards or Mr Hs personal information had been used by an unauthorised 
person. I also said TSB had responded to Mr Hs complaint in a reasonable time and taken 
reasonable steps to let him know he could come to our service. And that TSB hadnt 
responded to Mr Hs SAR significantly later than it should have. In summary, I thought the 
£150 compensation TSB had already paid Mr H was fair and reasonable overall.
Neither Mr H or TSB provided any further comments or evidence. So Ive gone on to make 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be asking TSB to 
increase the amount of compensation its already offered Mr H. Ill explain why.
card and PIN issues
Its not in dispute that TSB sent Mr H a new card and PIN when he hadnt asked for them, 
and it seems it did this because his original card had a too-long expiry date. This was a 
mistake on TSBs part and its said this was related to the IT systems upgrade problems it 
was having around that time. I think this mistake caused Mr H inconvenience because he 
had to call TSB to find out what was happening, and Ive seen some of his calls were lengthy 
and Mr H says this left him out of pocket.
Mr H was also concerned about whether his account and information was secure since he 
didnt receive cards TSB sent him  Ill return to this point later. However, Ive seen from 
TSBs records that it sent the cards to the address it held for Mr H, so while its unfortunate 
he didnt receive them, thats not something I can hold TSB responsible for. Mr H says the 
card he did receive was identical to his original card, so TSB had to send him yet another 
card - TSBs notes suggest this identical card was sent to Mr H because of human error.
Once Mr H received a card he could use, his PIN then wouldnt work with it. TSBs contact 
notes suggest it had previously told Mr H his PIN should work. But it didnt, and Mr H says 
this left him unable to use his card for four days. I think this would have caused Mr H some 
inconvenience and frustration.
So TSB made errors by incorrectly sending Mr H a new card and PIN in the first place, by 
incorrectly advising him about his PIN and by incorrectly sending him an identical card. And I 
accept these errors caused him frustration and inconvenience. I also accept they would have 
caused him concern about his account security, though I note TSB says its not identified Mr 
Hs account as one with any data breaches. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that an 
unauthorised person has used the missing cards or Mr Hs personal information.TSB has already paid Mr H a total of £150 compensation - £100 for his distress and 
inconvenience and £50 for his call costs. Taking everything into account, and given that the 
card and PIN errors happened over a relatively short period of time, I think £150 is fair and 
reasonable compensation overall for the distress, inconvenience and out of pocket expenses 
TSB caused Mr H.
how long TSB took to look into Mr Hs complaint
Mr H first complained to TSB on 18 February 2019 and it gave him its final response to that 
complaint in its letter dated 8 March 2019. So TSB answered the original complaint within 18 
calendar days. I dont think thats an unreasonably long time and its within the complaint 
response time frame of eight weeks that the Financial Conduct Authority says businesses 
like TSB are entitled to for this type of complaint.
TSB says it reopened Mr Hs complaint on 9 March 2019 after his PIN didnt work. The PIN 
issue wasnt a brand new problem in its own right but was instead a continuation of the 
original problem of TSB mistakenly issuing Mr H with a new card and PIN. So TSB wasnt 
obliged to reopen this complaint or keep looking into it after it had given Mr H its final 
response to his original complaint, though I appreciate he wanted it to. What TSB was 
obliged to do was to give Mr H a final response to his complaint and include referral rights to 
our service. And it did this in its letter of 8 March 2019.
TSBs contact notes suggest that when Mr H called on 26 March 2019 for an update, it told 
him it was noting this on its file and would ask someone to contact him but that it couldnt 
give him any timescales about when his reopened complaint would be looked at. Over the 
next few days Mr H made further calls to TSB about this. In the call on 1 April 2019 TSB told 
Mr H it had given him its final response and the right to refer his complaint directly to our 
service, and that it had backlogs but that a complaint handler would be in touch once his 
complaint had been allocated. When Mr H called TSB again on 3 April 2019, the notes 
suggest TSB told him this again and advised that he didnt need to keep chasing TSB as it 
was inconveniencing him further.
From this, I think TSB took reasonable steps to let Mr H know that if he remained unhappy, 
he could refer his complaint to our service. Nonetheless I can see he chose to continue 
calling TSB on many further occasions across April, May, June and into July 2019 before he 
contacted our service on 4 July 2019. I dont think it would be fair for me to hold TSB 
responsible for that.
subject access request
Our service will often suggest that consumers contact the ICO regarding complaints about 
how businesses like TSB have handled their data or SARs. But I think I can consider this 
point in this particular case, because Mr H submitted a SAR to TSB in the course of finding 
out what was happening with his TSB current account and the card attached to it. So his 
right to make a SAR was bound up with the financial service TSB was providing him with.
TSBs contact notes show Mr H first told TSB he wanted to make a SAR on 11 April 2019. 
The ICO says businesses have one month to provide SAR information, so TSB had until 11 
May 2019 to respond. From Mr Hs testimony and TSBs contact notes, TSB didnt at first 
send the SAR to the right team, and it picked up on this when Mr H called about two weeks 
later.
TSB says it issued its SAR response to Mr H on 14 May 2019 but the parcel was returned to 
it as the delivery was unsuccessful. TSB says it was reissued to Mr H on 29 May 2019 at his 
nominated TSB branch. So TSB sent its first response to the SAR three days later than it should have. Theres no doubt thats a delay, but I dont think its a significant delay or one 
that merits an award of compensation. 
In summary then, I think the £150 compensation TSB has already paid to Mr H is fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances. So Im not asking TSB to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman