DRN-3172135
The complaint
 Ms C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to send her a text alert about 
charges being applied to her account and that the charges caused her great financial 
hardship. 
What happened
 Ms C complained to HSBC that it failed to notify her about charges being applied to her 
account and that the charges were causing her financial hardship.  HSBC says it couldnt 
send text notifications as Ms C hadnt provided a mobile number and that all charges were 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  As Ms C was dis-satisfied she 
referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They didnt think HSBC had 
made an error in-regards to the text notifications about charges as Ms C hadnt registered a 
number with it. But they thought that HSBC ought to have realised that Ms C was 
experiencing financial difficulty by May 2017 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, 
fees and charges from this point onwards. 
HSBC disagreed, it says Ms C had low monthly commitments and couldve exited her 
overdraft if she altered her spending habits. HSBC said it attempted to assist Ms C in 
managing her account by sending annual summaries of charges and letters explaining 
charges associated with unarranged overdrafts and provided the details of its financial 
guidance team when direct debits were returned.
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In regards to Ms Cs first complaint point about not being sent text notifications about 
charges being applied to her account, I cant say that HSBC has done anything wrong here 
as there is no record of Ms C providing it with a mobile phone number.
I have gone on to look at whether Ms C was managing her overdraft and if there were any 
signs of financial difficulty and whether HSBC treated Ms C fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges.  HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at this, so I dont consider it necessary to set all 
of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Ms Cs 
overdraft from May 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms C was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Ms C hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of 
time. HSBCs own literature suggests that overdrafts are not generally suitable for long term 
borrowing. HSBC says that Ms C had low monthly commitments but multiple transactions to 
a third-party payment processer - which doesnt suggest financial difficulty and that she 
couldve exited her overdraft if she altered her spending habits. 
But its not clear from the statements what these payments were for, only that there were 
regular direct debits. And we are not here to pass judgement on what a consumer spends 
their money on. We can only look at what happened and ask whether or not the consumers 
regular incomings were enough to support the outgoings. 
So I think that Ms Cs overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that Ms 
C wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. 
I accept that HSBC provided updates on Ms Cs account by through statements and annual 
summaries and sent letters when direct debits were returned and provided the contact 
details of where support was available. But I dont think the provision of information went far 
enough.  And as HSBC didnt react to Ms Cs overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Ms C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Ms C fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Cs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from May 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Ms C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Cs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on May 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman