DRN-2093778
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that shes been misled by Armstrong Watson Financial Planning 
Limited about the benefits she could receive from her personal pension policy (PPP)  
specifically that she would be able to withdraw tax free cash from the plan.
Mrs P has learned that this wasnt the case, but has said that by this time she had made 
irreversible decisions relating to a house purchase and retirement plans, both of which would 
have been different if shed known the reality of the situation. 
Mrs P therefore feels shes been financially disadvantaged and has sought compensation 
from the business accordingly.
What happened
Mrs P met with a representative of the business in March and April 2009 to discuss her 
pension arrangements following a pension sharing order which had been put in place as a 
part of her divorce.
Mrs Ps circumstances were recorded as follows:
She was receiving pension funds totalling approximately £140,000
She was 53 years old, with an expected retirement age of 65
She earned approximately £10,300 pa and had savings of approximately £25,000
Her home was valued at £160,000 and was unencumbered by a mortgage
Upon the business advice, Mrs P invested her pension funds with Old Mutual.
In September 2019, Mrs P met with a representative of the business as she wanted to 
withdraw £40,000 as tax free cash from her PPP. However, having contacted Old Mutual, 
the business informed Mrs P that, as her ex-husbands benefits had already been 
crystallised before the sharing order was made, she couldnt withdraw a further tax free sum.
Mrs P complained to the business on the above basis, saying that shed never been 
informed that a tax free sum wouldnt be available to her. The business agreed that this 
hadnt been made clear to Mrs P and offered to pay her £500 for the trouble and upset this 
had caused.
Mrs P was dissatisfied with the response, however, and referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the matter and said the following in summary:
We would seek to place an individual in the position they would be in, had an error 
not occurred.
But even if the adviser had informed Mrs P that no tax free cash could be taken, this 
wouldnt have changed the situation and she wouldnt have been able to do anything 
differently.
As such, the investigator said thered been no financial loss to Mrs P  she would 
never have been entitled to the tax free cash.
But she thought that Mrs P had been caused a loss of expectation and had made 
plans on the basis of being able to access tax free cash  specifically the purchase of 
a new property. Tax had needed to be paid on the withdrawal used to fund that.
The investigator considered the amount of £500 which had been offered by the 
business, and thought that this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs P disagreed, however, saying the following:
She wasnt convinced that £500 was adequate or fair in the circumstances
The business repeatedly advised her over the years that shed be able to access 
25% of her pension fund tax free.
Mrs P had used this information as part of her retirement planning and she would 
have retired later had she known the reality of the situation. She had therefore 
suffered a financial loss.
Mrs P also used the information in deciding upon the purchase of her new property, 
which required access to the cash to cover various expenses associated with the 
move. Had she known differently, she wouldnt have moved home.
Both of these decisions  retirement and the house purchase  were irreversible by 
the time she found out that tax free cash was unavailable.
She should therefore receive at least £7,500 in compensation, equating to the extra 
tax shed needed to pay.
Mrs P had identified a decision which had been issued on a very similar case to hers, 
in which an award had been made in respect of actions which had been taken on the 
basis of an expectation of tax free cash.
Mrs P believed that this had set a precedent and her case should be considered and 
decided in a similar way.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, saying that cases were decided on 
the basis of their individual merits. She also reiterated her view that there had been a loss of 
expectation rather than an actual financial loss  and that the amount offered by the 
business was appropriate.
In response, Mrs P maintained that she would have acted differently regarding the timing of 
her retirement and the purchase of her new property. She also remained of the view that the 
other decision was very similar to her own situation.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seems to be no dispute here that Mrs P was led to believe that shed be able to take 
tax free cash from her pension benefits. As such, as with the investigator, Ive then 
considered whether this has caused an actual loss to Mrs P.
I have a slightly different view to investigator on the situation of loss here  if Mrs P were 
able to demonstrate that shed made irreversible decisions on the basis of incorrect 
information, I consider this to be more than a loss of expectation. Actual financial 
disadvantage may have been incurred. So Ive thought carefully about what Mrs P has said 
relating to both the house purchase and her retirement plans.
With regard to the former, Mrs P has said that, by the time she was aware thered be no 
access to tax free cash, the process was irreversible. But Mrs P has confirmed that contracts 
hadnt been exchanged by 19 September 2019, the date she became aware of there being 
no tax free cash, and so the process could in fact have been stopped. This would almost 
certainly have meant that non-refundable costs would have been incurred up to that point, 
and Ive noted that she was some way through the process of moving with her partner, but 
Mrs P could have claimed those costs from the business, along with an appropriate amount 
for the trouble and upset caused. The ultimate decision to proceed with the house move was 
Mrs Ps  and was made in the knowledge that there would be no tax free cash.
Furthermore, if the amount which Mrs P assumed would be available as tax free cash hadnt 
been used towards the house move, it would at some point have become taxable, 
irrespective of whether Mrs P used it to buy an annuity, access it as flexi drawdown  or if 
unused funds were left to beneficiaries in the event of Mrs Ps death after the age of 75. 
So whilst tax may have been payable rather sooner than it otherwise would, depending on 
how Mrs P would have taken her pension benefits, it would nevertheless at some point have 
been paid. It also still enabled Mrs P to use the availability of the lump sum withdrawal to buy 
her new home. So its difficult to see how, overall, Mrs P has been disadvantaged in that 
respect.
Turning then to the issue of the timing of Mrs Ps retirement, this is a slightly different matter. 
Mrs P has argued that she would have deferred retirement had she known that thered be no 
tax free cash, and if this were demonstrably the case, this would constitute a loss of earnings 
 an actual financial loss which wouldnt otherwise have been incurred.
I think it is plausible that, had Mrs P known she wouldnt have access to any tax free cash, 
she would have deferred her retirement, and shes said that this would have been by another 
six to 12 months if the option of voluntary redundancy was removed.
Mrs P has told us that the window for voluntary redundancy was from approximately March 
to June 2016, and Mrs P received a redundancy tax free lump sum of approximately £12,700 
 equivalent to taxable income of around £14,000
But as Mrs Ps salary was approximately £18,500 pa, if she had postponed retirement, and 
therefore foregone the voluntary redundancy tax free payment, to make this up would have 
needed the equivalent of her in any case working for a further nine months  midway 
between the six and 12 additional months Mrs P has said she would have worked had she 
known there would be no tax free cash from her pension. 
It therefore seems likely to me that the prospect of taking the tax fee voluntary redundancy 
payment and not needing to work for an additional nine months would in any case have been the more appealing option to Mrs P. And so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably 
conclude that she would have acted differently in the knowledge of there being no tax free 
cash from her pension.
But Mrs P has undoubtedly been caused trouble and upset by learning that there would be 
no tax free lump sum. And I think an award in respect of that would be appropriate here. The 
business has offered to pay Mrs P £500, and as with the investigator, I think this is a fair and 
reasonable sum, given the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, by final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman