DRN-1128801
 
The complaint
Mr R says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr R took out a mortgage in 1998. At the same time he took out a regular premium PPI 
policy to cover his mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought there wasnt 
enough evidence to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
wouldve provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr R disagrees he says he wasnt told PPI was added and didnt know he had it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr R he had a choice in taking the policy and that it wasnt a 
condition of the mortgage. The policy was sold during a meeting. HSBC have given us a 
copy of the financial planning review conducted at the time. I can see from this that quite a 
lot of detail was taken and recorded about Mr Rs circumstances and that PPI and other 
products were discussed and recommended.
I can also see that the financial planning officer's signed declaration confirms that product 
information was provided to Mr R and that Mr R has also signed a declaration confirming 
what was discussed and that he had received the key features of every product he 
purchased. 
So I think on balance - although Mr R might not remember this - PPI was discussed and 
recommended and Mr R chose to take it because he wanted the cover. I think if PPI wasnt 
optional and was a condition of the mortgage then there wouldnt have been any need for a 
recommendation.And because the PPI premiums were taken separately from the mortgage I think if Mr R 
hadnt chosen to take PPI he wouldve questioned why he was being charged for it on his 
bank statements. 
HSBC advised Mr R to take the policy. What this means is that HSBC not only had to 
provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr R could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to Mr Rs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if HSBC did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr R for the following reasons:
 
Mr R was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr R says he was entitled to some sick pay but had no other means of making his 
repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick 
pay and covered him for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr R in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think he 
wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr R at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it which I 
understand he did do after a couple of years.
 
I also need to consider whether HSBC gave Mr R information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out.
I dont know if HSBC did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr R has told us about his circumstances at 
the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information.
Which means I dont think HSBC has to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman