DRN-3309470
The complaint
Mr F complained that one of Fairstone Financial Management Limiteds advisors misled him 
into believing that it would continue managing his investments after hed transferred his 
pension.
What happened
Mr F held five separate pensions  three were defined benefit pensions with previous 
employers and two were personal pensions. For simplicity, throughout my decision I will 
refer to the defined benefit pensions as work pensions.
In mid-2019 Mr F made enquiries with one of the work pension schemes about transferring 
his pension benefits. In August Fairstones advisor completed a fact find document in order 
to ascertain Mr Fs financial position and objectives. And then on 17 October Mr F opened a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with another business (who Ill refer to as B) in 
order to transfer his three work pensions. He told us the advisor assisted him in opening the 
SIPP. He also said that while the advisor didnt advise him on the investments, he gave him 
options and said hed invested with B. The transfers were completed later in October.
On 12 November Fairstone provided Mr F with a recommendation report for each of the 
work pensions (so three in total). The recommendation was that Mr F not transfer the work 
pensions as it wasnt in his best interests to do so.
On 6 December Fairstone provided Mr F with a recommendation report for the personal 
pensions. The recommendation was that Mr F transfer them to another (separate) SIPP with 
B. The SIPP was opened on 18 December and transfers were then completed.
So at this point Mr F had two separate SIPPs with B. One was execution only (which B 
describes as an online platform where customers can instruct their own transfers and 
choose their own investments) and held the transfers from the work pensions. The other was 
advisor led (which B describes as an adviser led product designed to be operated and 
monitored by a financial adviser via its website) and held the transfers from the personal 
pensions.
Mr F met with the advisor on 4 February 2020. Following the meeting the advisor prepared a 
recommendation report in respect of the underlying investments for Mr Fs SIPP holding the 
work pensions. He submitted the report to Fairstones compliance team for approval before 
sending it to Mr F. However, on 10 March the advisor told Mr F that the compliance team 
had said that as Fairstone had advised Mr F to not transfer his work pensions it wouldnt give 
him any advice in respect of the funds he transferred.
The advisor told Mr F he wasnt aware of this policy and had he been he wouldnt have 
progressed matters this far. He referred the matter to a director, but he confirmed to Mr F on 
24 April that Fairstone's position remained the same.
Mr F complained to Fairstone. In its response to the complaint Fairstone outlined the issues 
Mr F had raised, ie:
Fairstone agreed to manage his investments, but then said it wouldn't
he met the advisor to agree an investment strategy but was then left in limbo with the 
funds just sitting in a SIPP
it took a number of weeks for Fairstone to tell him that it wouldnt proceed with any 
advice.
Fairstone said the initial fees it charged were for the advice only, and it wasnt obliged to 
provide Mr F with an ongoing service. It nevertheless said the advisor should have made it 
clear to Mr F from the outset that if it didnt facilitate the work pension transfers it wouldnt be 
able to provide an ongoing service.
Mr F referred his complaint to us. He said the advisor told him that even though the advice 
was to not transfer his work pensions, if he wanted him to manage the SIPP he would do so. 
And it was on this basis that he decided to proceed with the transfers. To resolve the matter 
Mr F wanted Fairstone to refund the fees for the advice. Fairstone confirmed to us that Mr F 
received assistance from its advisor in respect of the SIPP opened in October 2019. But it 
said the assistance was only administrative, in the sense of the necessary requirements eg 
completion of declarations.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. What I said in my provisional decision is outlined below, and it forms part of my final 
decision.
Issue to determine
Mr F wasnt complaining about the advice hed been given in respect of the transfers; the 
complaint was more about the information he was given about Fairstones ongoing 
management of his investments. So the issue for me to determine was whether or not 
Fairstone treated Mr F fairly in respect of its decision to not provide advice on the 
underlying investments once the transfer of the work pensions had completed.
Mr F also felt Fairstone should refund him the money it paid for the advice. I therefore 
considered that issue too.
Fairstone withdrawing its services
Mr F said the advisor helped him with the transfer of the work pensions and led him to 
believe that he would manage Mr Fs investments once the transfers had taken place. I 
thought it was most likely that the advisor gave Mr F the impression that he would 
manage the investments going forward. I said that because when Mr F met the advisor in 
February 2020 hed already transferred his work pensions and hed already transferred 
and reinvested his personal pensions. So there was little else for the two of them to 
discuss other than investing the funds from the work pension transfers. It was also the 
case that following the meeting the advisor completed a report in respect of his 
investment advice.
I thought the advisor ought to have known that neither he nor Fairstone would be able to 
give Mr F investment advice once advice had been given to not transfer the work 
pensions. This was because Fairstone had told us that training was given on this issue in 
2018.Given the advisor was working on the basis that hed be managing the investments 
going forward, I thought it likely that he assisted Mr F in setting up the SIPP with B. And I 
thought it more likely than not that the assistance was more than just administrative 
although I accepted that he didnt actually set the SIPP up; Mr F would have needed to 
do that.
Our investigator suggested  and Fairstone agreed  that £250 compensation was fair 
for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr F due to the advisor not properly 
managing his expectations. Up until Mr F was first told in March 2020 that Fairstone 
wouldnt provide ongoing advice he had no reason to think anything was wrong  so he 
wouldnt have suffered any stress or anxiety up to that point. That would really only have 
come once his expectations had been dashed. I was aware that Mr F incurred costs in 
flying to meet the advisor in February 2020, but it seemed from an email Id seen that he 
sent to the advisor on 22 January 2020 he had other appointments to attend to at the 
same time. So I wasnt persuaded that it was strictly an unnecessary trip.
Overall, I thought the compensation suggested by our investigator was fair for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
There was course the issue of losses Mr F might have suffered as a result of him 
transferring his work pensions. In correspondence with us Mr F said that he wouldnt 
have transferred the work pensions if hed known that no-one would manage them going 
forward. I thought that slightly contradicted an email he sent to Fairstone on 10 March 
2020 where he said he instigated the transfers based on advice from Pensionwise, some 
of the advisors advice (which he acknowledged was mainly to not transfer), and his wish 
to protect the capital if anything happened to him.
I thought believing that the advisor would continue managing the investments was a 
consideration for Mr F in deciding to transfer his work pensions. However, I wasnt 
persuaded that it was the critical or make or break factor. I said this because Mr F had 
already made enquiries with one of the work pensions about transferring his pension 
benefits before Fairstones advisor became too involved in the transaction; Mr F had 
already contacted Pensionwise; he opened the SIPP with B four weeks before the 
advisor gave Mr F his formal advice; and Mr F clearly had a desire to protect his capital. 
With that in mind, I concluded that Mr F would mostly likely have still transferred even if 
hed been aware from the outset of the true situation with respect to the limit of 
Fairstones advice.
I also considered any loss Mr F might have suffered due to how his funds were invested 
while he was waiting for Fairstones further advice. I understood the funds were sitting as 
cash during this period, and I didnt think Mr F acted unreasonably in leaving his funds as 
cash while he was waiting for further advice from Fairstone as to where they should be 
invested. But had Fairstone properly managed his expectations in this respect Mr F 
could have acted differently eg he could have sought investment advice elsewhere and 
then acted accordingly. I therefore thought it was fair that Fairstone compensate Mr F for 
any financial loss he suffered as a result of his funds sitting as cash.
Fairstones fees
It wasnt my role to comment on or judge whether Fairstones fees represented value for 
money in respect of the work it did or how they compared to fees charged by other 
advisors. In essence, Fairstone could charge what it felt was fair and it was up to 
consumers to decide whether to accept those charges or to go to another financial 
advisor.The important thing for me in respect of how much a financial business charged for its 
services or products was how clearly they outlined (a) how much the cost was, and (b) 
what they would provide for that. In this case, the advisor sent Mr F an email on 22 
August 2019 which, amongst other things, said:
oFairstone normally treated the advice for each work pension as separate
othe initial fee for each piece of advice was £2,995; plus a further £1,000 (approx) 
per pension to complete the transfer  so for three work pensions the total 
charged would normally be £11,985 [if the transfers completed]
opersonal pension transfers would normally be charged at 3% of the total amount 
transferred [in addition to the fees for the work pensions]
obut given that Mr F was a longstanding customer and that there would be some 
duplication of the work, it proposed charging an initial fee of £8,000 in total  
effectively reducing the fees for the advice on the work pensions by £1,000 and 
waiving the fees in respect of the personal pensions
oit also proposed charging 0.5% (instead of the normal 1%) for ongoing annual 
checks and reviews.
The client agreements for each work pension transfer also set out Fairstones standard 
£2,995 fee. And the SIPP application form for the personal pension transfers said the 
initial advisor charge was zero and the ongoing advisor charge was 0.5%.
I thought Fairstone sufficiently set out that it would charge Mr F £8,000 for the work it 
proposed doing ie advising on and facilitating the transfers. And it recognised there 
would be some duplication of work. I also thought Mr F was aware of the charge. I didnt 
therefore think there were grounds to make Fairstone refund any of the fees.
There was an argument that the £8,000 quoted included work in transferring the work 
pensions and that work wasnt carried out due to Fairstones later decision. However, I 
wasnt persuaded this was sufficient ground for me to make Fairstone reduce its fee. 
This was because the £8,000 quoted was already a reduction on the combined cost of 
the advice on the work pensions and the advice/transfer on the personal pensions.
Summary
I concluded that:
oFairstones advisor gave Mr F the wrong impression that he would manage his 
investments going forward
o£250 compensation was fair for the distress and inconvenience caused by this
othere were no grounds for Fairstone to compensate Mr F for any losses he might 
have suffered as a result of him transferring his work pensions (except for those 
outlined in the next bullet point) as he would most likely have transferred the 
pensions anyway
othere were grounds for Fairstone to compensate Mr F for any losses he might 
have suffered due to his funds sitting as cash while he was waiting for further 
advice from Fairstone as to where they should be invested
othere were no grounds for Fairstone to reimburse any of the fees it charged.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F replied and made some points:the SIPP he opened in October 2019 was wholly on the advice of the advisor (who was 
receiving monthly commission from it)
the discussion he had with Pensionwise was about his final salary; it was the advisor 
who said he should speak to Pensionwise first
hed never heard of B
hes already taken the lump sum amount
regarding the flight to meet the advisor, he tried to get other appointments but in the end 
the journey was just to see the advisor.
Fairstone also made some points:
it welcomed my conclusion on why its fees shouldnt be refunded
regarding compensating Mr F for any investment loss he might have suffered, it 
disagreed with the proposed start date (17 November 2019) for the calculations  it felt 
the loss should be assessed from when B received the three work pension transfers, not 
when the SIPP with B was opened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairstone withdrawing its services
The essence of my provisional decision in this respect was that the advisor most likely gave 
Mr F the impression that he would manage the investments going forward, when he ought to 
have known that he wouldnt be able to do so. The advisor also most likely assisted Mr F in 
setting up the SIPP for the work pensions to be transferred into.
In respect of losses Mr F might have suffered due to transferring his work pensions, I note 
what Mr F has said above about opening the SIPP and talking to Pensionwise. However, 
overall, I still think its most likely that he would have transferred the work pensions if hed 
known the true position given what he said in the email Ive referred to above and his wish to 
protect the capital if anything happened to him.
In respect of losses Mr F might have suffered due to his funds sitting in cash, apart from the 
proposed start date (which I comment on below) neither party has provided further comment 
on the principle that Fairstone should compensate for Mr F for this. I dont therefore make 
any further comment on this point.
The final issue in this respect is the £250 compensation thats been suggested. This issue is 
now finely balanced because of what Mr F has said about him not having any other 
appointments when he travelled to meet the advisor. But having considered the matter 
further I remain of the view that £250 remains fair. I say this because the meeting was 
arranged on the basis that Mr F did have other meetings to attend, and the advisor had 
offered Mr F alternatives  such as meeting halfway  but Mr F chose the flying option as, at 
that point, it seemed he had other appointments that he could attend.
Fairstones fees
The essence of my provisional decision in this respect was that I didnt think there were 
grounds to require Fairstone to refund any of the fees it charged as it had clearly set out how 
much they were and what service it would provide. Neither party commented on this issue 
further so theres nothing more for me to consider.Summary
Having reviewed this matter in light of the responses Ive received to my provisional 
decision, my conclusions remain as outlined above.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if hed been told at the outset of the potential limitations in Fairstones advice.
I think Mr F would have invested differently rather than leave the funds as cash. Its not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr F fairly, Fairstone must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Fairstone should add interest as set out below.
If theres a loss, Fairstone should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Fairstone is unable to pay the compensation into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr F 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Mr F would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Fairstone deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Fairstone should give Mr F 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Fairstone should provide Mr F with clear and understandable calculations in respect of 
the compensation payable.
Portfolio 
NameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Mr Fs SIPP For half the 
investment: 
FTSE Private 30 days from 
the date of 
the first work 8% simple 
per year from 
my final with B that 
held the 
funds from 
his work 
pension 
transfersStill exists 
and liquidInvestors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondspension 
transfer; or, 
for transfers 
after that 30 
days, 30 
days from 
the date of 
that transfer25 May 2020decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of 
Fairstone 
receiving 
Mr Fs 
acceptance)
The actual value means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
The fair value is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
I originally thought the start date should be 17 November 2019 (30 days after the SIPP was 
opened), as I felt that was a reasonable period of time for Mr F to have sought advice and/or 
invested the funds had he known that Fairstone wouldnt assist him in this respect. Ive now 
changed the start date as I think Fairstone made a good point in response to my final 
decision. This is because the point of this redress is to compensate Mr F for any losses he 
might have suffered as a result of the funds sitting in cash  and they couldnt have sat in 
cash until the transfer had happened.
I realise that the formula Ive outlined for the start date above might be a bit complicated so 
Ill illustrate what I mean using an example:
the transfer dates are 1 March, 14 March and 2 April
the start date for the first two transfers should be 31 March  being 30 days from the 
date of the first transfer (because its likely the two funds would be invested together)
the start date for the third transfer should be 2 May  being 30 days from the date of that 
transfer (because having already invested the first transfer funds 30 days April is a 
reasonable period to seek advice and/or invest these funds).
My understanding, however, is that all the work transfers were completed in October 2019  
and if that was the case, the start date would simply be 30 days from the date of the first 
transfer.
Ive chosen 25 May 2020 as the end date as this is one month after Fairstone confirmed it 
wouldnt provide Mr F with any investment advice, which I think is a reasonable period of 
time for him to have sought advice and/or invested the funds.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Fairstone 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr F paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Fairstone totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:I think based on Mr Fs attitude to risk described in the recommendation reports he 
wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds; its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return
I consider that Mr F's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr F into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr F would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr F could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Fairstone Financial Management Limited to settle the 
matter as outlined under the Putting things right heading above; and to pay Mr F £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman