DRN-1531853
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hencilla Canworth Limited mis-sold his musical instrument insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr B is a registered member of the Music Union (MU). The membership provides a 
Musicians Instruments and Equipment insurance scheme on behalf of the MU. Hencilla 
Canworth is responsible for the sale, while a separate business provides the insurance (the 
insurer).
Under the scheme, members can register for MU £2,000 Musical Instrument and Equipment 
Insurance Cover (MU £2K) as part of their membership benefits. Or, they can use the £2,000 
benefit from this cover to reduce the cost of MU Additional Cover (MU Additional). This 
policy was separate to the MU £2K cover  and provides protection for instruments and 
equipment which cost more than £2,000 and up to £150,000. If members opted to buy the 
MU Additional policy, they would lose the right to claim under the MU 2K cover.
Mr B purchased the MU Additional policy in November 2019 to cover an electric piano. The 
policy would provide a benefit of £2,399 for the cost of this instrument for a year. 
In December 2019 Mr Bs Mac Book Pro, iPad Air 2 and clamp was stolen at a gig. He made 
a claim under his policy, expecting reimbursement from the MU £2K cover. The insurer 
rejected his claim because the items were not covered under his MU Additional policy.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said the website did say he wouldnt be covered under the MU 
£2K cover if he took out the MU Additional policy. But he felt this was illogical and he 
assumed hed get the MU £2K cover for free as a basic part of his MU membership. He said 
calling it additional cover indicated it was in addition to the MU £2K cover.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said Hencilla Canworth hadnt given any 
advice about taking out the policy and had given Mr B enough information for him to make 
an informed choice about whether the policy was suitable for his needs.
As Mr B doesnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why.
This wasnt an advised sale. So, Hencilla Canworth was responsible for giving Mr B 
sufficient information about the MU Additional policy, to allow him to make an informed 
choice about whether or not to buy it. This information needed to be clear and not 
misleading.Ive looked at the process Mr B would have followed when buying the policy on the MU 
website. Mr B had to click a link to register for the MU £2K cover; it wasnt automatically 
added when he registered his membership with the union. Below the link, the website made 
it clear that the right to claim under MU £2K cover would be lost once the MU Additional 
policy was arranged. I can see Hencilla Canworth also emailed a copy of the MU £2K terms 
and conditions to Mr B after he registered  which said the insurer wouldnt pay out where 
the beneficiary was entitled to claim under the MU Additional policy.
After registering for the MU £2K cover, the website directed Mr B to a page where he could 
click a link to buy the policy. Once Mr B clicked this link, he was directed to another page, 
which gave an overview of what the MU Additional policy would offer. I can also see the 
policy summary and policy wording were made available to be viewed by hyperlink. This 
page clearly set out that once the policy was purchased, the MU £2K cover no longer 
applied. The page explained this was because the £2,000 benefit received from the MU £2K 
cover would be applied as a discount to the policy. It also made clear that the MU £2K cover 
would be available if the membership was still valid and once the policy ended. 
On the same webpage, Mr B had to click another link to buy the MU Additional policy, which 
directed him to an application. On the application, Mr B had to list all the instruments and 
equipment he wanted to cover under the policy. Mr B also had to confirm that he was 
agreeing to the terms and conditions before he could complete the purchase.
Ive also seen that Hencilla Canworth sent Mr B a confirmation email after purchasing the 
additional cover, which again clearly sets out that the MU Additional policy would replace the 
MU £2K cover.
Mr B says the policy is misleading as he thought the cover was in addition to the MU £2K 
cover he got for free as part of his membership. I understand the name of the policy includes 
additional within it. But I think the information Mr B was given at the time he bought the 
policy made it clear the MU £2K cover could not be used in addition to the MU Additional 
policy. I also think the information made it clear that the MU Additional policy would replace 
the MU £2K cover.  
So, I think Mr B was given sufficiently clear information to allow hm to make an informed 
decision about whether the policy was suitable for his needs. 
Ive carefully considered all the information Mr B has provided. I understand why he feels 
strongly about what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for. But 
this doesnt change my conclusion that I dont think Hencilla Canworth has done anything 
wrong.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman