DRN-2212275
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his mortgage. He wants more compensation.
What happened
Mr G had a mortgage with NatWest. He made overpayments to pay off the mortgage in full 
in September 2019 but wasnt happy with NatWests service when he visited a branch to do 
so. Mr G had previously made overpayments from the branch but on this occasion, Mr G 
said that he was told he could only overpay by contacting the mortgage centre and by paying 
a CHAPS fee. When he called the centre from the branch, Mr G said he was on hold for 
some time and then complained to the branch manager. Mr G said the branch manager 
didnt apologise, but did deal with the overpayment. Mr G said the branch manager didnt 
text him as agreed to confirm the timescale for applying the overpayment to his account.
Mr G complained to NatWest. It said that it was sorry Mr G had been given incorrect 
information by the branch as it couldve dealt with the overpayment and no fee wouldve 
applied; it felt its staff had given poor customer service. It paid £25 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused and confirmed the overpayments had been made without any 
charge. NatWest added that it did take time to apply a payment to an account, which was 
why the money wasnt credited immediately; this had been explained to Mr G in the branch.
Mr G complained to us. NatWest confirmed that it accepted it was at fault, but said its 
mortgage centre was the first port of call to deal with mortgage matters, not branches. 
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said as the events 
happened in branch, he couldnt be certain about what happened, but the investigator didnt 
doubt what Mr G had said. The investigator pointed out that Mr G had chosen to go to the 
branch to do something that couldve been dealt with on the phone, but accepted that the 
customer service had been poor when the branch staff incorrectly said a fee would be 
charged and didnt text as promised. The investigator noted that the payment was credited 
within four days, rather than within the ten days target. He thought £25 was fair and 
reasonable compensation in all the circumstances for the trouble and upset caused by 
NatWests failings.
Mr G disagreed. He said NatWest couldnt be trusted which was why he visited a branch and 
£25 wasnt enough compensation for the time he spent in branch and nearly being wrongly 
charged fees. The investigator said this service didnt look at loss of earnings or fees not 
actually charged  we look at the trouble and upset actually suffered. He added that 
incorrect information didnt equate to fraud as Mr G had suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to deal with the core of Mr Gs complaint, which is about his visit to the branch in 
September 2019. Many of his other points werent raised with NatWest as part of this 
complaint or about systemic issues  this service deals with individual complaints and cant 
tell a financial business how to operate its service. We also dont deal with data protection 
issues within the jurisdiction of the Information Commissioners Office.
My role isnt to punish businesses for making mistakes, but to ensure that consumers are put 
back into the position that they shouldve been in all along. Im not persuaded that Mr G 
suffered any financial loss as theres no evidence of this, and lost annual leave or potential 
loss of earnings arent something this service generally considers  we deal with such 
matters by looking at the trouble and upset caused by a financial business failings.
NatWest accepts that Mr Gs experience in branch in September 2019 wasnt good enough. 
As the investigator has said, no-one from this service was present but theres no reason to 
doubt Mr Gs account. But while I accept Mr G had previously been to the branch to make 
overpayments, it was still his choice to spend time visiting the branch rather than call the 
mortgage centre. Mr Gs relationship with NatWest by this point doesnt appear to be 
positive, but visiting a branch inevitably involves time and effort.
And Mr G wasnt charged in the end the incorrect fee he was initially and incorrectly told hed 
have to pay. Im not persuaded any fraud was being attempted; generally a mistake is more 
likely than a criminal act. And this service doesnt deal with hypothetical situations.
Mr G was given incorrect information in branch, which did lead to him spending more time 
there and suffering trouble and upset. I accept that he was also unhappy that he wasnt 
texted by the branch manager as discussed. I dont accept though that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for overpayments to a mortgage, particularly to pay it off in full, takes a short 
period to be credited as theres a number of steps to be completed, including money 
laundering checks.
For the failings identified above, Mr G is entitled to compensation for trouble and upset. Such 
compensation isnt calculated on the basis of the size or number of errors  its based on the 
trouble and upset actually suffered. Mr G hasnt really said much about this, other than 
commenting that he took time off work and incurred travel expenses to visit the branch. But it 
was his choice to visit the branch rather than call, and he was always going to spend time 
and money visiting the branch as a result. Money never truly compensates for trouble and 
upset, but in all the circumstances I think £25 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
25 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman