DRN-1766683
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined his home 
insurance (buildings) claim. Hes also unhappy about the way RSA handled his claim.
All references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr H made a claim on his home insurance policy. He told RSA hed discovered 
a leak in his bathroom and water was dripping through his kitchen ceiling. 
RSA asked Mr H to provide photos and quotes to repair the damage to the ceiling. It said it 
had a flooring company for repairs to the floor.
Mr H provided the information RSA asked for but says he had to chase it for a response 
several times. In the meantime, the ceiling had collapsed, and Mr H had to clean up the 
mess. The flooring company assessed the damage to Mr Hs floor and agreed a settlement. 
But there was a delay in Mr H receiving the money as the cheque was sent to his old 
address.
RSA asked Mr H for a revised quote for other repairs because the one hed sent included the 
shower. RSA said this wasnt covered. Mr H sent another quote and says he again had to 
chase for a response.
Several weeks later RSA sent a surveyor around to assess the damage. It then told Mr H it 
was declining his claim because hed allowed the shower to leak for a long time.
Mr H complained to RSA. He said hed done everything as soon as he should have done. 
Hed noticed the shower was leaking into the bath when hed first moved into the house (in 
late 2018). He didnt have the funds to pay for a plumber at that time so he tried to restrict 
the leak to fall inside the bath as much as he could. 
A while later he noticed water coming through the kitchen ceiling, so he arranged for 
someone local to quote to fix it and any damaged caused. This was the quote he passed on 
to RSA after his first telephone conversation with it.
Mr H said the delays began after this and were caused by RSA.
RSA stood by its decision to decline Mr Hs claim. It said that anything that happens 
gradually over a period of time was not covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs 
home insurance policy. Mr H had informed RSA that the leak had been ongoing since he 
moved into his home and had worsened over time.  
But RSA acknowledged that its service could have been better. It shouldnt have set Mr Hs 
expectations that the claim would be paid and the length of time it took to turn down Mr Hs 
claim was unacceptable. RSA paid him £150 to compensate him for the inconvenience hed 
experienced.Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought RSA had 
acted fairly when it declined his claim because it had done so in line with an exclusion in the 
policy. She agreed that RSA had caused delays and communication issues when handling 
Mr Hs claim. But she thought that the £150 RSA had paid, was fair compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said he that although he was aware the 
shower was leaking, he thought hed done enough to contain it in the bath. He didnt know 
that it was causing damage elsewhere. He didnt notice the damp on the bathroom door 
because it was always kept open. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Decline of claim
There isnt any dispute about the cause of the damage. It was caused by Mr Hs shower 
leaking. Mr H says he was aware there was a problem with his shower leaking when he first 
moved into the property in November 2018. He says he tried to redirect the flow of water into 
his bath with the shower curtain. 
RSA says the reason it declined Mr Hs claim is because his loss was excluded under the 
terms of the policy. 
The policy terms state that there is an exclusion for Any loss, damage, liability, cost or 
expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from.. wear and tear, fading, 
corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, condensation or deterioration, or 
anything that happens gradually over a period of time
The terms also say: If you dont keep your home and belongings in good condition, you may 
find that damage has been caused by wear and tear or lack of maintenance, or that loss or 
damage has happened gradually over time. These arent things your insurance covers
Mr H says he didnt notice that the leak had caused any damage until water started dripping 
through the kitchen ceiling, around six months after hed noticed the leaking shower. 
Photographs show heavy mould on the bathroom door and there is also evidence of damp 
around the seal and side of the bath and the floor boards. So, Im satisfied that the cause of 
the damage happened gradually over time.
While Mr H says he wasnt aware that the water from the leaking shower was gradually 
causing damage to his property, I think he should reasonably have been aware that it was.
RSA has also referred to condition in the policy which says: Your family must take all 
reasonable steps to avoid incurring liability and prevent loss or damage to everything 
covered by this insurance, and to keep all the property insured in good condition and in good 
repair.Mr H was aware that his shower was leaking for many months before he made his claim. If 
hed arranged for it to be fixed at the time, I think he could likely have prevented the damage.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to decline Mr Hs claim. 
Handling of claim
RSA has acknowledged it should have established earlier on that the damage to Mr Hs 
property wasnt covered under his home insurance policy. This delay must have been 
frustrating for Mr H who went to a lot of trouble to provide quotes and other information to 
RSA. He also had to contact RSA several times for an update. I can also appreciate how 
disappointing it would have been when the claim was declined.
But I think the £150 RSA has already paid him is enough to compensate Mr H for the impact 
this has had on him. I also understand that RSA has allowed Mr H to keep the payment he 
received for the flooring repair, despite the damage not being covered. 
Overall, I think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H. While it could have 
handled his claim better, I think it did enough to put things right before Mr H brought his 
complaint to our service. So, I wont ask RSA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman