DRN-3418239
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim under his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr M made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy in relation 
to his employment. His probation period had been extended which he considered to be 
detrimental treatment as a result of him whistleblowing on a health and safety issue.  
Once it had been established that legal expenses insurance was in place at the time the 
claim arose, AXA obtained a legal assessment from a barrister, via its panel solicitors, to 
establish whether the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success  a requirement for 
cover under the policy. 
The barristers opinion was that the claim had less than 50% prospects of succeeding. So 
AXA declined the claim. It told Mr M that if he had any further information, it could ask the 
barrister to reassess the case. Or alternatively, he could obtain his own legal opinion, at his 
own cost, from a barrister of his choice. 
Mr M provided more information to AXA, which was passed on to the barrister. But this didnt 
alter their opinion, and the claim remained declined.  
In December 2021, Mr M returned to AXA to let it know that hed pursued the case privately 
and achieved an out of court settlement. He raised a complaint on the basis the successful 
outcome evidenced that his claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success and that the 
barristers legal opinion had been incorrect. He asked AXA to provide the name of the 
barrister along with a copy of the instructions. 
AXA declined the complaint. And it didnt provide the information requested. Mr M also felt it 
had caused unnecessary delays in dealing with his complaint and hadnt provided him with 
its complaints procedure when he requested it. So he contacted our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied AXA had acted in accordance 
with the terms of the policy and he didnt think it had done anything unfair. As Mr M didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prospects of success
Its a requirement for cover under the policy that a claim must have reasonable prospects of 
success which are defined as being more than 50% chance of winning the case. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, AXA obtained the advice of a barrister. And they were of the opinion that, based 
on the information available, the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. 
Having considered the legal assessment, Im satisfied its properly written and well-
reasoned. And its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything 
to persuade me that AXA shouldnt have relied on it. 
Im satisfied Mr M was informed that he could obtain a legal challenge in the form of his own 
barristers opinion. But he chose not to do so, and instead proceeded with his claim privately 
outside of his legal expenses insurance policy.
I appreciate that Mr M went on to settle his claim. But this doesnt mean that it enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success at the time it was assessed by the barrister. Many claims 
settle prior to legal action and this can be for a number of reasons, for example, to avoid 
negative publicity or because its more cost effective to pay the claim than the legal costs of 
a full trial. 
But even if Mr M had won at tribunal, its important to note that the threshold for reasonable 
prospects under the policy is more than 50%. So even if a claim doesnt meet the policy 
requirement, theres potentially still 49% chance of it going on to succeed. 
Barristers details
Mr M wants AXA to provide the barristers name and a copy of the instructions. But AXA 
says its not prepared to do so as this information is legally privileged. It says the advice was 
obtained for AXAs purposes to determine whether cover was available for the claim only 
and it doesnt want Mr M contacting the barrister directly. 
Its not my role to determine what information AXA should or shouldnt provide and I think 
this is more appropriately addressed by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But I 
can assure Mr M that the advice has been obtained from a suitably qualified barrister. And 
the instructions, provided to the panel solicitors, were solely asking that a prospect 
assessment be carried out  with Mr Ms full case file attached. 
I appreciate Mr M wants the barristers name in order to pursue a complaint with the Legal 
Ombudsman. But as Mr M didnt instruct the barrister, nor were they instructed to act for him, 
I dont believe he would have any standing to pursue that complaint. He may wish to make 
enquiries with the Legal Ombudsman and the ICO should he remain unhappy.
Complaint handlingI understand that Mr M emailed AXA on 14 December 2021 asking for a copy of its 
complaints procedure. This was followed by a further email on 20 December 2021 providing 
more information on Mr Ms dissatisfaction. 
AXA responded on 21 December 2021, acknowledging the complaint and providing a copy 
of the complaints procedure. As this was five working days after Mr Ms request, I cant 
agree there were any delays here. 
AXA provided its final response to the complaint on 8 February 2022. The financial 
regulators  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  allow businesses eight weeks to issue 
a response to a complaint. So Im satisfied AXA complied with this timeframe. 
As such, I havent identified any delays in the handling of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman