DRN-3031075
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr D says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. I say this because HSBC sent in a detailed record of Mr Ds discussion with the 
adviser in November 2000, and theres nothing in that record to suggest the PPI was 
presented as being compulsory. I also note that Mr D later increased the cover (in 2006) 
when he took out a further advance on his mortgage, and the offer document that HSBC 
sent in states the PPI as being optional. 
Im satisfied HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr D, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him. And the evidence about Mr Ds circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr D was eligible 
for the cover and the record of the discussion with the adviser shows that in 2000 he 
wouldnt have been entitled to sick pay from his employer over and above his statutory 
entitlement, and he only had a small amount of savings, so he had a need for cover. 
Neither HSBC nor Mr D could tell us much about his circumstances in 2006, so I think its 
reasonable to take them as being broadly similar to those in 2000. 
There was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that couldve affected his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out on each occasion, so it looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr D as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from 
the information he was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something had gone wrong. Because of this I dont 
think Mr D would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means HSBC doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman