DRN-2808108
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc wont refund a payment made on his credit 
card in relation to some flooring.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M bought twelve packs of flooring using his Capital One credit card. The 
total cost being just over £600. He says in September 2019 he installed it and three weeks 
later gaps in the flooring started to appear. He says he contacted supplier to sort the matter 
out but was unsuccessful. So Mr M asked Capital One to help.
Capital One looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. It thought a Section 75 
claim would be unsuccessful because this purchase didnt fit the financial limits of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr M didnt think this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Capital One had acted unfairly by declining 
Mr Ms request for a refund. Mr M didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
could Capital One challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mr M does 
here, Capital One (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally we say its fair 
for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success, for example where goods arent received, or it appears that 
the payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.
The chargeback process is run through the card scheme operator which isnt Capital One in 
this case. So even if Capital One pursues the chargeback to the end of the process it is the 
card scheme operator that makes the final decision. The chargeback scheme also has time 
limits for chargebacks to be raised and if the issue is raised outside of these time limits then 
the chargeback cannot be successful. Mr M didnt speak to Capital One until well into 
December 2019 having made the purchase and received the goods in August 2019. Ive 
considered the scheme rules and Im satisfied on balance that this was outside of the 
appropriate time limits here. So Capital One couldnt have been successful if it raised a 
chargeback. So I dont think Mr M has lost out by Capital One not trying a chargeback when 
it knew it was out of time.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Ms Capital Ones credit card. Under section 75, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Capital One as he does against 
the supplier (the flooring company) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier. But to make a valid claim under Section 75 certain criteria need to be met.
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. Ive considered the circumstances here and Im satisfied this relationship is in place.
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that any single item to 
which the supplier has attached a cash price must be more than £100. Mr M argues he 
purchased one continuous floor. But as he said himself he bought twelve packs of flooring 
which were individually priced. And he could have purchased one pack or as many packs as 
the suppliers could supply. The precise amount of flooring he purchased wasnt the only 
amount available for sale and he didnt pay the supplier to install it-he did this himself. As the 
packs were individually priced I can see each pack was significantly less than £100. So Im 
satisfied this purchase doesnt meet the criteria here.
However there is another part of the Act which in certain circumstances does away with 
these particular financial criteria, namely Section 56. In summary section 56 has the effect of 
making the supplier the agent of Capital One during the antecedent negotiations leading up 
to Mr M entering into the agreement, beginning with the first communication he had. And the 
financial limits criteria doesnt apply if in the lead up to the sale Mr M was told something that 
wasnt true-otherwise known as a false statement of fact which he then relied upon in 
deciding to purchase the flooring.
Ive considered what Mr M has said carefully and the information in the sales process and 
what he has said hes found out about the flooring from the supplier afterwards. Having 
considered this Im not persuaded he was told something untrue which led him to buy the 
flooring. So I dont think he was misrepresented into a purchase he wouldnt have otherwise 
made. So I dont think Section 56 makes a difference here.
Mr M makes the argument that Capital One is hiding behind a loophole in the legislation. 
But it is important to remember that Capital One isnt the flooring company or the seller of 
the flooring. It is his credit card company that in essence loaned him the money to pay for 
the flooring. I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy about his flooring, but I dont think Capital 
One has treated him unfairly.
In summary I think Mr M hasnt lost out by no chargeback being raised. I dont think Mr Ms 
claim meets the required criteria, and I dont think Mr M was told something untrue before he 
purchased the flooring. So I dont think I can fairly require Capital One to refund Mr M here. I 
appreciate hell be disappointed by this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman