DRN-2218191
The complaint
Mr N complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2019 Quidmarket approved Mr N for a loan for £600 repayable over six months 
with monthly instalments of £197.80. It was repaid early on 7 October 2019. Later Mr N 
applied for a second loan and it was refused.
 
Mr N says This irresponsible Lending only came to light when they refused me a further loan 
even though there was no real change in my finances since the last loan they gave me. So if 
it wasnt suitable this time then it certainly wasnt the previous time.
Quidmarkets final response letter (FRL) listed the information Mr N had given to it upon his
application including his income and expenditure. Quidmarket had carried out a credit search
for Mr N in August 2019 and the FRL set out in detail (table format) the types of loans and 
credit agreements Mr N held, when these had commenced, the up to date balance on each 
account and  if a credit limit was applicable  what that credit limit was.
 
Quidmarket had carried out a credit search when Mr N had applied for his second loan and 
set out in its FRL the reasons for the refusal of that loan: Mr Ns financial situation had 
deteriorated.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Quidmarket was
irresponsible to lend to Mr N and that it should put things right. That did not lead to
resolution and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 October 2020 in which I said I was planning not to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr N has responded to say that the credit check would have shown the other payday loans 
he had. He says these should have acted as an alert. And Mr N has pointed out that 
Quidmarket had amended his income and expenditure amount. 
 
Quidmarket has not responded. The reply date (22 October 2020)  for my provisional 
decision has passed and so I have moved the case to the final decision stage. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
Mr Ns recent points I can deal with here. I have cross referenced the details on 
Quidmarkets FRL with the credit search result it had in August 2019. The evidence I have 
from both parties does not lead me to think that Quidmarket did not do enough before 
approving the loan. Having other payday loans is not an automatic reason not to lend. And 
we look to see if Quidmarket carried out proportionate checks within the context of it being 
early in the customer-lender relationship. I concluded in my provisional decision that it had 
and I remain of that view. 
Mr N has mentioned that Quidmarket amended my income and expenditure amount. I think 
that Mr N is referring to that part of the FRL where Quidmarket says: 
QuidMarkets underwriters noted that this was higher than the amount of monthly 
credit commitment you advised on your application. They therefore adjusted your 
disposable income to £438. 
I can see from Mr Ns application form that he had declared his monthly credit commitments 
as £800 and Quidmarkets research had revealed it was more like £1,282. So, it recalculated 
the figures to see if the monthly instalment repayment of £197.80 for the loan Mr N had 
applied for was affordable. The new disposable income figure (taking into account his other 
outgoings and commitments) was calculated to be £438, so I think that Quidmarket had 
demonstrated that the £197.80 was likely affordable for Mr N.  
Mr Ns second application was refused by Quidmarket. What Mr N seemed to be saying was 
that the refusal of that second application, all things being equal, meant Quidmarket should 
not have given him the August 2019 loan and so approving that first loan was irresponsible.
Reviewing all the financial details I have seen from Quidmarket then I think it succeeded
in demonstrating that it did carry out all it should have done and that it made its decision to
approve the August 2019 loan on solid research and facts. For the first loan in a new lending 
relationship I would not have expected it to do more. Checks proportionate to the amount 
applied for within that context, for a new customer were carried out.
I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman