DRN-2140230
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, wont refund money which 
she says was missing from a cash withdrawal. 
What happened
Mrs S went to her local Halifax branch to make a cash withdrawal for £1,000. She said she 
needed the cash to pay tradesmen as she was refurbishing her home and had been making 
cash withdrawals on a regular basis. She said the cashier showed her a sealed bag with the 
cash which she placed inside an envelope. The cashier then handed the envelope to Mrs S, 
who put the envelope in her handbag. She said she went straight home and left the 
envelope in her handbag overnight. She said she didnt have contact with anyone else after 
leaving the bank.
Mrs S said when she opened the envelope the next day, she saw a tear to the sealed bag. 
She opened the bag at its end, counted the cash several times and discovered that £260 
was missing. She returned to her local branch with the sealed bag. She asked to swap the 
sealed bag for another unopened packet containing £1,000.
Halifax said its staff checked the sealed bag and saw a small hole. However, it didnt accept 
liability for the missing cash. It said its staff had followed its processes for dispensing large 
amounts of cash over the counter. It said it had reconciled its ledgers and there wasnt a 
surplus of £260.  It was satisfied, therefore, that the sealed bag contained £1,000 and was 
undamaged when Mrs S left the branch. It refused to refund the £260.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Halifaxs decision, so she asked this service to investigate. She told 
our investigator that she regularly withdrew large amounts of cash and was familiar with the 
process. She said she didnt need to make a false claim as she has enough money in her 
account. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint, but she didnt recommend upholding it. She felt 
unable to conclude that Halifax had made an error or that a member of staff had acted 
fraudulently. She thought it was more likely than not that Mrs S had left the bank with £1,000 
in the sealed bag.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view. She has asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is inconclusive, or where there is a straight conflict between the 
consumers version of events and what the bank has told us, then I may reach my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened, having regard to the circumstances, 
including common industry practice.
It seems to me that there are three possible scenarios to explain what happened:
there was an error in counting the cash
there was internal fraud/theft
Mrs S made an honest and genuine mistake.
accounting or other internal error
When a consumer complains of a shortfall in a cash withdrawal, then we will ask the bank to 
explain its processes. We will also ask it to tell us what happened on the day and we will ask 
for evidence showing that its ledgers balanced at the end of the day or accounting period.
Ive looked at Halifaxs processes for dispensing cash over the counter and its internal notes. 
Halifax told us that when a customer makes a large cash withdrawal in branch, the cash is 
prepared in a secure room and placed in sealed denominational bags. This is done in the 
presence of two employees. Each employee signs the bags confirming that the correct 
amount of cash has been placed into the bags. I understand that, in this case, there was one 
bag containing notes of the same denomination. Halifax said the bag was signed by two 
employees and that the cashier serving Mrs S showed her the sealed bag. She said Mrs S 
was happy to accept the sealed bag and didnt ask her to count the money in her presence. 
Halifax said the cashier then placed the sealed bag into an envelope and handed the 
envelope to Mrs S. The cashier didnt notice any tears or holes in the bag. Halifax said if 
there had been any damage to the sealed bag, she wouldve noticed it. Halifax added that 
£260 in notes was a considerable bundle. The cashier wouldve noticed if the bag were 
lighter and thinner due to missing notes. 
Ive also seen evidence confirming that there were no accounting errors or discrepancies to 
the value of £260 and that the cash ledgers balanced at the end of the day and the next day. 
This indicates that the £1,000 was counted and placed in the sealed bag.
Im satisfied, therefore, that there were no accounting errors. 
Internal fraud or theft
If the money was counted correctly, then another possible explanation for the shortfall is that 
a member of staff stole it from the sealed bag. This is what Mrs S thinks might have 
happened. She has suggested that an employee anywhere in the distribution chain  
including security tampered with the bag and then teased out the cash with a rubber finger 
glove. Unfortunately, I dont have photos of the sealed bag. Mrs S described it as having a 
tear. Halifax staff said it was a small hole.  I dont know if the tear or damage was large 
enough for notes to drop out or be taken.
So, Ive considered what Mrs S has said and weighed it against the available evidence. 
Halifax said two employees signed the bag in accordance with its internal processes. Mrs S 
has neither denied nor confirmed that they were signed by two employees. She merely said 
the cashier waved the bag at her from behind the partition and handed her the envelope. 
And I believe this is probably all that Mrs S witnessed. 
However, this wasnt an unusual or exceptional transaction for a bank, so I think its more 
likely than not that the staff followed the processes, that two employees were present when 
the money was counted and signed the sealed bag.  In which case, I think its highly unlikely 
there was any opportunity  or time  for a staff member to tamper with the bag and remove 
£260 without being detected. I also consider that the cashier wouldve noticed if there was a 
tear or hole to the sealed bag. And I dont think its plausible that this was part of a bigger 
fraud or cover up involving more than one person at the bank. Its too risky a step.Based on the evidence, I consider that its more likely than not that the sealed bag was 
undamaged and contained £1,000 when Mrs S left the bank.
This leaves the only plausible explanation as being an honest and genuine mistake by Mrs 
S. I appreciate she is accustomed to making large withdrawals and wouldnt make a false 
claim. However, I must balance Mrs Ss evidence against the more detailed evidence 
provided by the bank and the likelihood this was internal fraud. 
Having done so, Im afraid I dont think this was fraud or an accounting or other error. I can 
only conclude that its more likely that Mrs S left the bank with an undamaged sealed bag 
containing the £1,000.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman