DRN-4430447
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Aspect Financial 
Solutions Ltd (AFS). Hes represented in bringing his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer just to Mr B. 
What happened
In 2013 AFS recommended Mr B invest £249,000 (made up of a cash sum of £39,840 along 
with a limited recourse loan for the balance) in an unregulated investment, Elysian Fuels 16 
LLP, which involved the purchase of unlisted shares in an Elysian Fuels PLC. £240,000 of 
Elysian stock was then sold to Mr Bs company as part of a secondary tax planning exercise 
to reduce his tax bill on the repayment of his directors loan account.
Elysian Fuels subsequently failed, and the tax planning exercise was deemed a tax 
avoidance scheme by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC), incurring tax liabilities and 
penalties for Mr B, along with the loss of the cash element of the investment. 
In 2020 Mr B complained to AFS that the recommendation had been unsuitable, saying, in 
brief, that it failed to take proper account of his circumstances and attitude to risk. Further, 
the adviser had failed to explain the investment and its associated risks.
AFS didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied the advice had been suitable for Mr B. It felt 
hed accepted the high level of risk, beyond his normal level, for this particular investment 
and this had been made clear in the suitability letter issued to him. Further, hed been 
certified as a high-net-worth investor by his accountants  the party which had principally 
been driving the proposition  and the investment had represented less than 10% of his net 
assets.  
The complaint was referred to this service and our investigator felt it should be upheld, 
primarily on the basis that the Elysian investment as a very high-risk, unregulated scheme 
and Mr B was not an experienced or high-risk investor. The investigator didnt feel that the 
provision of information to Mr B regarding the level of risk absolved AFS of the responsibility 
to ensure the investment was suitable.
AFS didnt accept this, so as no agreement could be reached the matter was referred to me 
to review.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I explained that Id reached a different conclusion to 
the investigator. I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said, in part:
The background set out above represents only a brief summary of the complaint, 
submissions and arguments made by both parties. Ive limited it deliberately as I think that, 
while a great deal of information and comment has been provided so far, which Ive read and 
considered in its entirely, the crux of the matter is actually very straightforward. Did AFS act 
incorrectly or unfairly in advising Mr B such that it should now be held responsible for any 
loss he incurred because of his participation in the scheme?
Ive used the word scheme here because I think its important to recognise that this was a 
not a simple investment recommendation made in isolation. I dont think either Mr B or AFS 
would disagree that all the parties involved  including Mr Bs accountants  were well aware 
that this went beyond solely making a cash investment of just under £40,000 with the 
potential for growth. Rather, the primary purpose of the scheme was to reduce Mr Bs tax 
liability. 
The suitability letter issued to Mr B by AFS in July 2013 said You may recall we met and 
discussed ways in which you may extract cash from the company in a tax efficient manner. 
We then discussed in more detail the Elysian option and complete (sic) the application 
process. The letter went on to discuss the potential for the Elysian fuel business itself to be 
a success, although there were no guarantees, but that in any event by securing the 
'unencumbered' shares and transferring them to your company this in effect has the result of 
reducing your tax bill on the repayment of your Directors Loan Account.     
This type of arrangement was clearly high risk and I accept that AFS had a responsibility to 
ensure the investment element was suitable for Mr B. In this respect, the fact find completed 
by AFS categorised his attitude to investment risk as realistic to aggressive and noted his 
approach to investment as experienced private investor with good investment knowledge. 
However, the suitability letter said, We established that your attitude to risk could 
realistically be described as Highly Speculative for this particular investment.
In terms of existing investments held by Mr B the detail in the fact find was limited, 
suggesting only about £40,000 held in National Savings, ISAs and other investments. But I 
dont think this information in isolation is likely to have accurately reflected Mr Bs financial 
circumstances and likely investment experience. His accountant had certified him as a high-
net worth client, and it was noted that he had significant business property assets worth 
around £500,000 and an investment property worth £250,000. 
Some of this was mortgaged, but I think that in itself tells us something about Mr Bs 
circumstances and likely propensity for risk. The fact that, at the age of 67 with it 
documented that he had retirement planned at only two years away, Mr B was comfortable 
taking on new borrowing that would go well into that planned retirement suggests to me he 
was accepting of risk. The fact find shows hed just taken a new five-year interest-only 
mortgage on his residential property, which would run well into his proposed retirement. 
Although none of this tells us definitively what Mr B understood about the investment, either 
in terms of how it would work and how risky it was, I nevertheless think it paints a picture of 
an experienced business owner who was likely to be open to novel approaches to financial 
planning. I accept that the advice process could have been better documented. A clearer 
rationale could have been provided and potential alternatives noted. But a failure to fully 
document the process doesnt in itself render the advice unsuitable. 
A consideration of the wider circumstances, which I think must reasonably include noting the 
involvement of Mr Bs accountants and the fact that it seems they were primarily driving the 
entire scheme, leads me to provisionally conclude that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
hold AFS responsible for the losses incurred by Mr B. 
Clear warnings were provided to him by AFS of the high-risk nature of the investment and 
while I accept that doing so doesnt negate the need to ensure the suitability of an 
investment, on balance I dont think a recommendation to commit just under £40,000, which 
represented less than 10% of Mr Bs overall assets, was unsuitable. Not when set against 
the wider context of Mr Bs financial experience and circumstances.
Mr B didnt accept my provisional decision. He said, in brief: In respect of the residential mortgage, this wasnt such a clear indicator of him having 
a higher propensity for risk as Id indicated. This was primarily because, contrary to 
what had been noted in the fact find, hed actually had no intention of retiring within 
two years of the advice. Rather, he enjoyed working and his business was running 
successfully, so the new mortgage had been taken with the intention it would be 
repaid using dividends from the business, which would clearly involve him continuing 
to work for at least the five-year term of the mortgage. 
It was not the case that his accountants had been the driving force behind the 
investment. Theyd never previously suggested anything similar, and it had instead 
been the adviser who drove the proposal. The accountants had not provided any sort 
of tax assessment or recommendation. The adviser had been involved from the start, 
presented the proposal to Mr B, completed all the relevant documentation, and drove 
the process.  
AFS also provided some additional comments, emphasising several its previous points 
around the information provided in the suitability letter issued to Mr B and the accountants 
involvement, all of which Ive considered in my further review of the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision. I still think the complaint should not be upheld for the reasons given in 
my provisional decision. 
Ive noted the further information provided about Mr Bs circumstances, specifically his 
retirement plans, but I dont feel this clarification leads to a conclusion that he was more risk 
averse. On the contrary, I think it shows that Mr B was still very much engaged with his 
business and, as such, likely to be open to ways of improving his tax planning, even where 
potential plans involved an increased element of risk. He was clearly comfortable taking an 
interest-only mortgage running into his 70s, the repayment of which was dependent upon the 
continued efficiency and success of his business. 
But that said, I should stress that my view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld isnt based 
solely upon conclusions drawn from a consideration of specifics of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances, such as the mortgage situation. 
Having carefully reviewed all the documentary evidence, I remain satisfied, on balance, that 
the implementation of the scheme, as I referred to it in my provisional decision, was 
something Mr B was closely involved with in conjunction with other parties  his accountants 
and the adviser, And, given his business background, hes likely to have understood and 
been willing to accept the risks involved, which as noted were very clearly set out for him in 
the suitability letter. 
I note that Mr B has said that his accountants were categorically not the driving force behind 
the investment. But the documentary evidence, against which I must balance his 
recollections, indicates their involvement  for example, by way of the completion of the 
high-net-worth statement and summary of Mr Bs assets for the investment application. And 
the suitability letter referenced their involvement and provision of information, which I 
appreciate Mr B now disputes, but which doesnt appear to have been questioned or 
challenged at the time. I accept that the involvement of the accountants, to whatever degree was actually the case, 
wouldnt entirely absolve AFS of responsibility for the advice. But taking account of all the 
wider circumstances, I nevertheless find Im unable to conclude that it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold AFS responsible for the losses incurred by Mr B as a result of his 
involvement with the scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman