DRN-4457319
The complaint
Mr P complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined his claim on his home insurance 
policy when the gable wall collapsed. 
Mr P is represented in this complaint. For ease of reading, Ive referred to Mr P throughout. 
What happened
During the night in January 2023 the gable wall collapsed on Mr Ps house. Because of this, 
Mr P claimed on his home insurance policy with AXA. Around a week later AXA attended Mr 
Ps property to inspect the damage. 
Mr Ps house is constructed of cobb and brick. The cobb wall is behind a brick wall and 
water had been getting into the cobb wall causing damage over time. Because of this AXA 
declined the claim. It said timber in the wall had decayed and the damage had therefore 
occurred gradually and wasnt an insured event which the policy covered. Mr P didnt think 
this was fair and complained. 
AXA reviewed the complaint and declined it. It said there hadnt been a one off event which 
the policy covered and also relied on an exclusion which said damage caused gradually 
wasnt covered. Mr P didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. He said it was 
a cold and frosty on the night the wall collapsed and thought the claim should be covered. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found AXA 
had reviewed the damage and there wasnt an insured event which was covered by the 
policy. He therefore thought AXA had acted fairly by saying the cause of the damage had 
occurred gradually. Mr P didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision, he said the 
collapse of the wall couldnt have been foreseen and therefore thought it should be covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy cover him for certain events but not everything. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly. I 
say this because there isnt an insured peril within the policy which would cover this event.
Even if Im wrong, AXA has relied on a general exclusion which says:
Any loss or damage caused gradually or by wear and tear, depreciation, 
the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus 
and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of 
your buildings and its contents.
The engineers report provided by AXA says the cause of damage is: natural breakdown of 
materials. Ive also listened to the recordings the surveyor made and he says: timber totally 
decayed. The supporting photos also show the decayed timber and the cause of the 
damage AXA has explained is due to water getting into the cobb wall and causing damage to 
it. 
I appreciate Mr P said there was no way of knowing the cobb wall was being damaged 
gradually over time, as it was behind a brick wall. But Im not satisfied that means this 
particular claim is covered. I say this because Im not satisfied the wall collapsing is an 
insured even which is covered by the policy. Im therefore not going to tell AXA to do 
anything else. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman