DRN-3693168
The complaint
X complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a disputed payment made from her 
savings account. 
What happened
X says that on 25 April 2021 a payment of £214,000 was made from her sole savings 
account to a joint current account she and her husband also held with HSBC. X and her 
husband are in the process of divorcing and X says her husband transferred the funds from 
her savings account and then out of the current account.
On 24 May 2021 X called HSBC to say that the money had been taken from her savings 
account without her permission and to ask for it to be refunded.
HSBC investigated and decided not to refund the disputed payment. It thought X had 
authorised the payment or made it herself because the payment had been made using Xs 
online banking.
As X didnt agree with HSBCs decision, she asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. X disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking X is 
responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them herself or 
allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, the key question here is whether HSBC has acted fairly in concluding that X did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Xs genuine online banking details were 
used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that X consented to the payment 
being made from her savings account.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that X authorised 
the transaction from her savings account.
Firstly, Id like to say that I understand there is a serious dispute between X and her husband 
regarding this £214,000. X has provided us with emails between her and her husband which 
seem to make it clear that he transferred the money from their joint account to an account in 
only his name. And those emails also give some insight into the very difficult circumstances 
X has been dealing with regarding her relationship with her husband and her pending 
divorce. 
But even with that in mind, the evidence Ive seen suggests it is more likely than not that X 
did authorise the payment from her savings account to the joint account, or allow it to be 
made. I say this because:
- No reasonable explanation has been provided as to how Xs husband could have 
accessed her online banking. X has said he could have accessed it when he was at 
her home to pick up their son, but she has also said she did not save her passwords 
anywhere.
- The mobile banking logs show that Xs details and mobile device were used to make 
the payment and were then used to log into online banking again several times in 
early May 2021, after the disputed payment was made. But X did not flag the 
payment with HSBC until 22 May 2021. 
With this in mind, its difficult to see firstly how Xs husband could have accessed her online 
banking, and then how X could not have noticed the payment for nearly a month. As a result, 
I find its more likely than not, on balance, that X authorised the disputed payment from her 
savings account. I appreciate that X has said if she had been contacted by HSBC to confirm 
the payment was genuine then she could have stopped it, but given that I think she more 
likely than not authorised it herself, I dont think HSBC contacting her would have changed 
anything here.
As Ive said, I acknowledge that Xs husband did then transfer the funds out of their joint 
account, but as a joint account holder he was entitled to do so. And theres nothing to show 
that HSBC had been made aware of any dispute between X and her husband that would 
lead it to put any restrictions on the joint account. So it follows that I dont think HSBC was 
unreasonable to allow this payment to be made. 
I understand the very difficult situation X is in, and there is no doubt that X and her husband 
are in dispute about what this £214,000 was for and who it belongs to. But that is really a 
matter that a court would be better placed to look into. My role here is to decide whether 
HSBC has acted fairly regarding the payment, and for the reasons set out above, I find that it 
has.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman