DRN-4036659
The complaint
Ms G and Mr R complain about the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
communicated with them about their account. They are concerned that sensitive personal 
data was included in a non-secure email message.
What happened
Ms G and Mr R are both parties to this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ive referred to Mr 
R only throughout this decision as all the submissions have been made by him. 
Mr R holds an account with Nationwide. In 2022, Nationwide sent him an email to request 
some information about his account. Mr R says this was an unsecure email message which 
included an unprotected attachment. He says that the attachment contained personal data 
including his sort code, account number and details of transactions on his account. He was 
very worried that sensitive information had been sent in this way, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong by contacting Mr R by email or including 
the attachment. It said it was complying with the relevant regulations and was able to 
request information in this way.
But it accepted that no telephone number had been included on the email, so Mr R couldnt 
call to check that the message was genuine. Nationwide also acknowledged that it hadnt 
sent Mr R any correspondence to confirm the outcome of the request. And it accepted that 
Mr R had been given incorrect information by two of its agents over the phone. Nationwide 
apologised for these mistakes and paid Mr R compensation of £150. 
Mr R remained unhappy about the security of the email and asked this service to look at that 
issue. He sought advice from an IT consultant who said that the email from Nationwide 
wasnt protected with any encryption that would secure his personal information. They said 
that they had been able to open the attachment.
Our Investigator concluded that Nationwide had used encryption to send the message and 
thought it had acted fairly. But Mr R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the sensitive nature of this issue, Im not going to refer to Nationwides processes in 
detail here. But Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that Nationwide does use email 
encryption to send confidential information securely.
Nationwide says this doesnt affect its customers in that it may not always be apparent to 
them that an email is encrypted. Mr R didnt have to log into his account to see his message: 
he was able to simply open the email and attachment. But I find that Nationwide sent the 
email to him using encryption. This is accepted by the IT consultant who advised Mr R.
But Mr R says that this encryption doesnt secure his personal information. He says the 
email wasnt secure because, when he forwarded it to the IT consultant, they were able to 
open the attachment. I understand Mr Rs concern. But I think Nationwide took steps to 
ensure that the information it sent out reached Mr R securely. Nationwide doesnt have any 
control over whether Mr R chooses to forward an email or who he forwards it to after 
receiving it. And it isnt responsible for the security of Mr Rs device.
As our Investigator explained, this service cant tell businesses what systems they should 
use or what procedures they should have in place. Its our role to determine complaints by 
reference to what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I understand that Mr R 
doesnt think Nationwides approach is the best practice. But that doesnt mean Nationwide 
did anything wrong or acted unfairly. Im satisfied that Nationwide followed its security 
procedures and I think its approach was reasonable. And I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Mr R suffered any detriment. So, I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything here.
If Mr R would prefer not to receive information about his account by email, Nationwide has 
confirmed that it can amend his profile accordingly. It says this wouldnt be limited to 
marketing emails but could apply to other issues. I think thats reasonable. If Mr R wishes to 
amend his profile in this way, he should contact Nationwide.
Overall, I think Nationwide has acted fairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman