DRN-4297575
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mr C had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr C had built up 21 years and 2 months pensionable service in the BSPS. His 
annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in May 2016 was £12,149.39. 
This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  under 
the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees to start to talk 
to the members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack being issued 
to members, including Mr C, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail about the three 
options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr C initially indicated that he wanted to transfer to the BSPS2 and completed a form 
confirming this. But he remained concerned about what the announced changes meant for 
the security of his safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted 
another business (Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory 
permissions to advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr C to IFM. One of IFMs advisers 
recorded the following information about Mr C:
He was aged 52, married and in good health. His wife was aged 46 and in good 
health. They had five financially dependent children aged between 10 and 20;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£39,000. His wife was self-employed and withdrew an annual income of about 
£3,000 from her business;
Their assets comprised the marital home (value not recorded) which was 
encumbered with a mortgage. They didnt have any savings or investments; 
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of about £124,000 on the marital 
home and credit card debt of about £20,000;
After paying for bills and essentials, they didnt have any surplus disposable income 
available;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since                 
June 2016. The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 12% of his gross 
annual salary (the value of his DC plan wasnt recorded). In addition, he was on 
course to receive the full state pension at age 67;
His wife didnt have any private pension arrangements;
He was an inexperienced investor with limited knowledge and experience of 
investments. He had little in the way of other assets or pensions to fund his 
retirement. On a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 (Cautious risk) was lowest risk and 5 
(Adventurous risk) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 1 or 
Cautious risk; and
His primary objective regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the 
BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire from age 57 or as soon as 
possible after that age.
Following the fact find meeting, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in November 2017. 
This explained to Mr C that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits, as set 
out in the Time to Choose communication pack. IFMs adviser recommended that Mr C 
accept the transfer value of £316,772.36 offered by the BSPS and transfer to a PPP 
provided by Prudential for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.50% (or £4,700)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementationOngoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.35% product fee deducted from the PPP fund value
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr C to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS), produced after the recommendation, showed that             
Mr Cs estimated revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 was £17,136.91 on the basis 
he took a full scheme pension only. It calculated the critical yield to match that benefit as 
7.5%. The calculation assumed 0% ongoing advice costs. The critical yield at age 57  to 
align with the age at which Mr C wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
Mr C accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following funds to align with            
Mr Cs Cautious risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 30% 5.50%
Prufund Growth 70% 6.20%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.99%
During 2020, when he was aged 55, Mr C withdrew a tax-free cash lump sum of about 
£88,000 and a taxable withdrawal of £15,000 from the PPP. From 2022 he left the 
employment of Tata Steel and started working as a self-employed builder. At around the 
same time he started to withdraw taxable income of about £2,000 every month from his PPP 
to supplement his self-employed earnings.
This complaint
During 2022, Mr C complained to IFM about the suitability of its pension transfer advice. He 
thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr C was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr C to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money from age 55 onwards and leave a lump 
sum to his beneficiaries on death. It was satisfied that it had adhered to and considered 
relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr C with all the necessary information 
and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an informed decision. It didnt believe the 
alternative options of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Cs early retirement objective. In its 
view, the pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was therefore suitable. One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the PPP was 
clearly in Mr Cs best interests compared to the alternative options. He thought suitable 
advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr C transferred to the BSPS2, retired at age 65 and would be a 20% income 
taxpayer in retirement. He acknowledged that Mr C had withdrawn benefits from his PPP 
from age 55 but had continued working on a self-employed basis. So he specified that the 
redress calculation should be run to age 65 because Mr C hadnt fully retired early and had 
no plans to do so.
Mr C accepted our investigators assessment. IFM replied and stated that it didnt agree with 
the outcome and provided additional comments in response. It said that the investigator had 
failed to take into account Mr C motives for transferring. And it disputed that redress should 
be calculated on the basis that Mr C will retire at age 65 because he started withdrawing 
benefits from his PPP at age 55. Our investigator considered these comments but wasnt 
persuaded to change his view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has 
been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: (1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr C, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Cs situation
The situation for Mr C wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as set out in the suitability report:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value available 
was £316,772.36)
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
Options 1 and 2 provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were differences between 
them for deferred members like Mr C. The PPF was designed to provide members with at 
least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was designed to provide members 
with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried members who expected to 
retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction 
in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. The 
BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary increases to the scheme pension, a higher 
level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable. The benefits available under option 3 would be dependent on the performance of 
underlying investments and annuity rates available at retirement  in other words, there were 
no guarantees regarding the level of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be better option for Mr C based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. I note that Mr C initially indicated that he 
wanted to transfer to the BSPS2 and completed a form confirming this  so this supports my 
view. And so its my view that IFM shouldve only recommended a transfer to the PPP in 
favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly demonstrate why it was in Mr Cs best interests, as 
referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr C was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Cs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 21 years and 2 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other 
assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. His wife didnt 
have any private pensions. Given the lack of other assets, IFM ought to have 
recognised that Mr C and his wife would likely be heavily reliant on the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to support their 
standard of living in retirement until state pension age. Given Mr Cs limited capacity 
for loss, I think it was important not to expose the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and maximisation of death benefits as 
a high priority at the expense of the primary income purpose  unless there was a 
clearly suitable reason to do so;
Mr C had limited knowledge and experience of investments. He had a Cautious risk 
profile indicating he was at the lowest end of the investment risk spectrum. 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr C. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme;
The primary aim of the pension transfer was so that Mr C could retire early, from 
around age 57 if his financial situation allowed it. It was recorded that he was content 
to accept a lower pension income to achieve his objective. But he was then aged 52 
and so couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my 
view, with such a time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the 
case for a pension transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early 
retirement  more difficult to justify;
Had IFM advised Mr C to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 52;
IFM failed to obtain the necessary information relating to Mr Cs financial situation 
including his anticipated income and expenditure during retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer out of the BSPS to achieve his early 
retirement objective. It may well have been the case that Mr Cs retirement income 
need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but IFM failed to establish this. Ultimately, 
however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in Mr Cs best 
interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early retirement objective or whether 
he could in fact retire early;
So the basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr C to retire immediately but at some 
indeterminate point in the future. I think this is a key point and proves that there was 
uncertainty regarding when Mr C would retire. I acknowledge that he accessed 
benefits in his PPP during 2020 when he was aged 55. This wasnt in line with his 
plan to withdraw benefits from age 57. Mr C accessed benefits after he left Tata Steel 
and started work as a self-employed builder. He didnt fully retire but instead 
remained self-employed. Its my view that Mr C only had the ability to access that 
money in the PPP due to the unsuitable advice provided by IFM  I dont think 
accessing money in the PPP transforms unsuitable advice into suitable advice. Its 
my view that had Mr C received suitable advice he wouldve retained his safeguarded 
benefits in the BSPS2 and, at the point he wanted to access benefits, couldve 
considered his options at that time including a pension transfer, if then deemed 
suitable;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr C so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
IFM recorded that Mr C preferred flexible income rather than guaranteed lifetime 
income. Im not sure what this was based on. He had received guaranteed income all 
his working life and had a Cautious risk profile. So I think a guaranteed retirement 
income wouldve been valuable for an individual in Mr Cs circumstances;
IFM recorded that Mr C was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. Im not 
persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced and Cautious risk investor to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in exchange for 
more risk so that he could access flexible benefits. Theres no real evidence that                  
Mr C required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable income during 
retirement. Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that he had 
any concrete need for it. But if he did require it, then any flexible needs couldve been 
met by his DC pension and tax-free cash available under the BSPS2; 
IFM recorded that Mr C was concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and wanted choice and control over his pension. But he appears to have 
been a largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no evidence he had 
experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of money. So its unclear 
to me why he suddenly had a desire to do so. In my view, Mr C had limited 
knowledge and experience to enable him to understand the risks involved in 
transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr C was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. As 
an inexperienced investor who had enjoyed guaranteed employed income during his career, its unclear to me on what basis an individual in Mr Cs circumstances would 
decide that he didnt value the guarantee provided by the PPF. While I understand 
that he may have been concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits, I 
dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr C 
wouldve received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with 
the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits 
payable. If Mr C was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to 
the PPF which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question 
why, as an inexperienced and Cautious risk investor, he would accept the risk of 
transferring to a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks where 
the loss could be significantly greater than 10%; 
A change in the format of death benefits was recorded as another reason for the 
transfer to the PPP. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr C about what was best 
for his own retirement provision. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income 
and lump sum needs would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later 
years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. I cant see 
that this was explained to Mr C.  Its my view that he didnt have any health issues at 
the time IFM advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish 
the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced 
safety net for family. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him transferring 
to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit;
For the reasons stated above, I dont think there was any need to transfer to a PPP 
at that time. In the suitability report dated 21 November 2017, IFM inexplicably 
provided a generic critical yield figure rather than calculate the actual figure 
applicable to Mr Cs safeguarded benefits. IFMs adviser stated, I can confirm that 
our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that annual investment 
returns of typically around 8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the benefits 
available at 65 from the current British Steel scheme. Mr C signed the transfer 
discharge papers on the same day. Then on 28 November 2017, after the 
recommendation had been provided and accepted, IFM obtained a TVAS calculation 
produced by Prudential based on Mr Cs specific circumstances. By that point, 
however, the information contained in the TVAS calculation was essentially 
meaningless in enabling Mr C making an informed decision;
The TVAS calculation produced by Prudential showed that the critical yield to match 
the benefits under the BSPS at age 65 as 7.5%. This compared with a discount rate 
of 4.0% at age 65, as explained by our investigator in his assessment. Its my view 
that such a rate of required investment growth was incompatible with Mr Cs 
Cautious risk profile, discount rate and the estimated annual growth rate of 5.99% 
(before charges) of the recommended investment strategy. I think these factors 
showed that it was likely Mr C would be financially worse off as a result of the 
pension transfer;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figure of 7.5% was incorrect. This 
is because the basis of the advice was that Firm A would provide ongoing advice to            
Mr C at a cost  but the cost wasnt taken into account when calculating the critical 
yield. Including that ongoing advice cost wouldve led to the critical yield being 
greater than 7.5%, which further increased the risk that Mr C would be worse off by 
transferring. In addition, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr C was seeking 
to take benefits at somewhere around age 57. If that was the case then I wouldve 
expected IFM to also calculate the critical yield figure at age 57 to enable Mr C to make an informed decision. But it didnt. I think this was a material oversight because 
the critical yield figure at age 57 wouldve been greater than 8.0% due to the shorter 
investment timeframe and impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth 
rate. This meant that Mr C wasnt provided accurate information about the level of 
investment growth required in the PPP to match the scheme pension if he took 
benefits earlier than age 65; 
IFM stated in the suitability report that at age 65 the BSPS would pay Mr C an annual 
pension of £12,464. But the TVAS showed the estimated revalued annual pension at 
age 65 was £17,136.91. IFM attempted to show in the suitability report the early 
retirement pension payable under the BSPS at age 60. It stated, For illustrative 
purposes only, if you were 60 now and retiring under the current British Steel 
scheme, the annual pension would be c£10,200 per year or c£7,000 with a tax-free 
lump sum of £47,000. But that illustration was potentially misleading for an 
inexperienced investor like Mr C. This is because that figure of £12,464 was the 
revalued pension as at 2017 when Mr C was aged 52 (rather than at age 60). It 
would need to be revalued to age 60 before the 18% reduction was applied. I think 
the way the information was presented may have misled Mr C to believe that the 
benefits payable by the BSPS at age 60 were lower than was actually the case;
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Cs objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the critical yield and benefits 
payable by the BSPS at age 60. And it failed to provide sufficient information on 
alternative options to achieve Mr Cs stated objectives. I think these inadequacies in 
the suitability report led to him making an uninformed decision to proceed with a 
pension transfer when this was not in his best interests.
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Cs 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that Mr C couldnt financially bear 
the risks involved in the pension transfer. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the 
pension transfer was in his best interests compared to the alternative option of transferring to 
the BSPS2. In conclusion, Ive decided that the advice didnt comply with COBS 9.2.1R(1) or 
9.2.2R(1) and wasnt in line with the guidance in COBS 19.1.6G. As a result, I think its fair 
and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr C wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. Im not convinced that it could be 
reasonably determined at the time that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr C. And so 
I think, given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 
was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 
the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be 
based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65 for the reasons explained.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our service upon completion of the 
calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr C accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr C any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C. 
If Mr C accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr C can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman