DRN-2784961
The complaint
Mr T complains about a non-reviewable whole-of-life assurance policy he was sold by Lloyds
Bank PLC. He says that the policy exclusions werent explained, and it was unsuitable for
him.
In bringing his complaint, Mr T is represented by Mrs W.
What happened
In 2009, Mr T met with a representative of Lloyds. He was looking for a form of protection
that would provide a lump sum towards funeral costs if he passed away.
Lloyds recommended that Mr T should start a non-reviewable whole-of-life policy. It would
initially provide cover of £4,000 for a monthly premium of £17.11. The plan was index-linked
which meant that his premiums and the cover provided would go up each year, in line with
the Retail Price Index. These premiums would be payable until Mr T reached the age of 90,
and the policy had no cash-in value at any time.
In 2019, Mr T complained about the advice hed received. He said that he hadnt been
provided with projections to show the amount of money hed pay towards the policy; he
wasnt given any alternatives and his savings werent taken into account. He said that his
ability to cover his day-to-day living costs had been reduced by having to pay the premiums
until he reaches the age of 90. He said he would lose all the benefits of the premiums hed
paid if he stopped them. Mr T asked for a refund of these premiums together with interest.
Lloyds said that the advice had been based upon Mr Ts circumstances and income at the
time. He was recommended a plan to help with the cost of funeral expenses, which would
increase each year in line with the Retail Price Index. Lloyds said that although the amount
of Mr Ts savings had been noted, he hadnt wanted to discuss savings and investments with
the adviser at that meeting. Lloyds said that it was confident that its adviser had given Mr T
advice that was appropriate for his circumstances.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He
said that Mr T was aware of the purpose of the policy and the policy documentation
confirmed that premiums were payable until he reached the age of 90. The investigator said
that the quotation from the time showed Mr T the policy costs and he was given cancellation
rights if he had any concerns about the policy.
On Mr Ts behalf, Mrs W asked that his complaint be reviewed. She said that Mr T relied
upon representations that were potentially confusing or mis-leading, and no consideration
had been given to the fact that the policy was sold on the basis of covering inheritance tax
and critical illness causing an inability to work when this wasnt relevant to Mr Ts
circumstances. Mrs W said that Mr Ts ongoing affordability of the policy hadnt been
considered and he wasnt given any alternative options. She said that Mr T had been in a
vulnerable position at the time of the advice.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021. In summary, I said that 
thought it should be upheld.
At the time of the advice, Mr T was aged 52 and was single. He lived with his mother and 
was her main carer. He wanted a plan that would pay out a lump sum to his sister that would
go towards helping pay for funeral costs when he passed away. I said I could see that Mr T 
had some savings but didnt have any form of life cover. At that time, Mr T wasnt able to 
work, and his income came from disability living allowance.
Lloyds adviser recommended that Mr T start a non-reviewable whole-of-life policy which 
was index-linked. And I said appreciated that, on the face of it, this would have met Mr Ts
objective of providing a lump sum for funeral costs and took into account that the cost of this
may increase in the future.
But I wasnt persuaded that this was the right recommendation for Mr Ts particular 
circumstances. I said this because I thought the premium represented a large part of his
available income, after allowing for his regular outgoings. Mr Ts income at that time was
noted as £400 a month, and he had a total monthly expenditure of £350. I also noted that
Mr T lived with and cared for his mother. He was a tenant of a local authority owned property
and his mothers pension income went towards paying the majority of their household bills,
half of the rent and the council tax.
The monthly premium for the whole-of-life plan started at £17.11 a month but this would
increase each year in line with the Retail Price Index. Considering Mr Ts circumstances, he
seemed to have had little capacity to be able to increase his level of income, and there was
also the real possibility that this could reduce in the future if there was a change in his
situation, or that of his mother.
I said I understood that Mr T chose to cancel the indexation of the policy in July 2013. And 
Mr T told us that he had been struggling to maintain the premium payments; his ability to
meet his day-to-day living costs had reduced and that he had to ask his mother for financial
help. I thought this indicated that the ongoing commitment of meeting the premiums was
unsustainable for him over the long term required.
I said I appreciated that the policy documentation referred to the policy premiums needing to 
be paid until Mr T reached the age of 90. But I was also mindful that Mr T didnt appear to 
have had experience of such a plan before, so may not have fully understood how this 
impacted upon him, particularly as the amount of the premium would increase over time.
 
Because this is index-linked, there was little information available at the time for Mr T to have 
appreciated what this may have meant for him in monetary terms. I thought it was likely that 
Mr T wouldve been reliant on the information the adviser gave him about the whole-of-life 
plan, and he said that he didnt understand what he was committing to.I said I appreciated the point Mrs W made about the reference to inheritance tax and critical
illness cover but these appeared to be standard wording and warnings within the 
documentation, rather than them being specifically relevant to Mr Ts circumstances or the
advisers recommendation for him. 
Taking everything into account. I wasnt persuaded that Lloyds recommendation of this non-
reviewable whole-of-life policy was right for Mr T. So I thought Lloyds should refund the 
premiums Mr T paid with interest.
The responses
Lloyds responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr T and Ms W didnt respond to my provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has accepted my provisional decision, and Mr T and Ms W havent responded 
with any further submissions, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to refund the 
premiums Mr T has paid and add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date each 
premium was paid until the date of settlement.
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman