DRN-3903994
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the advice she was given in 2017 by Capital Professional Limited 
(CPL), to transfer her existing Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) into an alternative 
SIPP arrangement, and then invest those funds with a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) 
was unsuitable.
In this complaint Mrs B is represented by a third-party, but for clarity Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mrs B herself.
What happened
Mrs B had her personal pension funds held in a SIPP and invested in a fixed-term 
annuity with Liverpool-Victoria (LV). This fund was due to mature in January 2017 with 
a value of approximately £131,000.
This product had been arranged as part of CPLs ongoing servicing of Mrs Bs pension 
funds, so just before its maturity, in December 2016, a financial review was undertaken 
of her circumstances and financial objectives. Her circumstances were recorded as 
follows:
She was 59 years old and married
She was retired
She received monthly pension income from her previous employer of £470
She and her husband had a joint monthly income of £3,470
Following normal expenditure, they had surplus monthly income of £1,470
They owned their own home outright, worth £435,000
They had joint savings of approximately £100,000
She had an ISA worth £14,500
They intended to move house by using their savings and equity in their home to 
fund this
Her husband was to retire shortly and begin taking his pension benefits
She wished to defer making a decision about her pension arrangement until 
after the house move was complete
It was agreed that the funds within her existing SIPP should be sold and the funds held 
in a cash account pending any further investment decisions. This was completed by LV.
In order to give Mrs B advice about where she could invest her pension funds, CPL asked 
her to complete a risk and objectives questionnaire, which she sent back on 27 March 
2017. And as a result, on 13 April 2017, a Retirement Planning Recommendations Report 
was completed by CPL.
Mrs Bs key financial objective was recorded as moving her LV funds from cash to an 
actively managed fund with potential for capital growth. It also listed the following as 
her specific investment objectives:
Investments selected from the whole of the market
Have her investments regularly monitored to ensure ongoing suitability
Minimise the cost of investment switches/charges
Minimise administrative paperwork from providers
Be able to view investment values online
Be able to assess performance of investments on a regular basis
Have her attitude to risk (ATR) regularly reassessed to ensure ongoing 
suitability of investments
Ensure portfolio remains within her desired ATR
Have a transparent and simple charging structure
To be able to change investment strategy without switch charges
Ensure the investment structure allows the greatest possible protection 
afforded by the FSCS
The report confirmed Mrs Bs ATR as Low to Medium and her capacity for loss as 
Low, and that she didnt require any income from her pension at that time.
The report recommended Mrs B transfer her existing SIPP arrangement into a Flexi-
Access Drawdown arrangement within a Nucleus SIPP, and invest her funds in a 
Managed Cautious Portfolio under a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). This advice was 
accepted in full by Mrs B and the transfer was completed.
Following further advice in 2020 from CPL Mrs B began taking an income from her 
pension fund.
On 8 April 2021, through her representative, Mrs B complained to CPL. She said, in 
summary, that the advice to switch her LV SIPP to a Nucleus SIPP was unsuitable 
because:
It was unnecessary
It served to generate unjustified fees
There was no need for investment flexibility or additional investment choice
There was no justifiable expectation that the proposed investments within the 
Nucleus SIPP would outperform the previous arrangement after fees were 
taken into account.
She requested that she should be given compensation to put her in the position 
she wouldve been in had her pension funds remained with LV.
By August 2021 Mrs B hadnt had a response to her complaint from CPL so referred it to 
our service. But on 18 October 2021 CPL sent Mrs B its final response letter. In it CPL 
didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had highlighted that the level of income Mrs B was 
intending to withdraw was unsustainable given the probable fund value and her life 
expectancy. It also highlighted that if a comparison was made between her current fund 
value, and that which wouldve been achieved if shed remained in LVs cash fund, she had not been disadvantaged and had actually gained by transferring her SIPP to Nucleus. 
Whilst it did agree there was no justification that the new SIPP arrangement would 
outperform Mrs Bs previous SIPP with LV, this wouldve been incredibly unlikely given the 
level of income Mrs B was taking from her Nucleus SIPP. And it maintained that Mrs B 
was better off having transferred.
Unhappy with this response Mrs B asked our service to investigate her complaint. And 
having done so our investigator didnt think CPL had acted fairly. She didnt think the 
advice it had given to Mrs B to transfer to the Nucleus SIPP and enter into a DFM 
arrangement was suitable. She couldnt see that CPL had demonstrated that Mrs B was 
likely to be better off under the new arrangement, and hadnt compared the potential 
growth, nor the level of fees and charges against alternative funds already available within 
her existing SIPP.
So in order to put Mrs B back as closely as possible to the position she wouldve been in 
had her funds been suitably invested within the SIPP provided by LV, and not transferred, 
she thought CPL should do a loss calculation between the performance of her Nucleus 
SIPP against a benchmark. And if a loss was identified she told CPL how she thought 
Mrs B should be compensated for this.
Mrs B accepted the investigators view, but CPL did not. It asked for the complaint to be 
assessed by an ombudsman, so it has come to me to make a final decision.
On 9 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts on the 
merits of the complaint. I agreed with the conclusions of the investigator, but I set out my 
initial thoughts regarding my proposed redress methodology and compensation for Mrs B. In 
my provisional decision I said:
When assessing the suitability of the advice given to Mrs B by CPL, I have to consider it 
in light of the information available when the advice was given, and not by using 
hindsight. Ive also looked at it in the context of the rules and guidance in existence at the 
time.
Within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R, part of the 
Conduct of Business rules, required a regulated business to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time CPL advised Mrs B 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance was to ensure that 
regulated businesses, like CPL, took reasonable steps to provide advice that was 
suitable for their clients needs and to ensure they werent inappropriately exposed to a 
level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I consider when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), published a checklist 
for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four key issues it 
thought should be focused on:Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, 
a guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put 
in place.
The advice to switch
When considering a case where someone has switched their pension funds to a new 
provider, the consumers circumstances at the time must be considered. And in order to 
make the advice to switch suitable, the switch would need to be in the persons best 
interests. And in order to be in her best interests, the new arrangement would need to be 
demonstrably better, in terms of the benefits it provided or was reasonably likely to 
provide, including potential growth, to that available through her current arrangement.
Following their meeting in December 2016, CPL advised Mrs B to temporarily hold her 
pension fund in cash, pending finding a suitable alternative fund. I consider this advice to 
be sensible and necessary, given her current arrangement within her existing SIPP was 
maturing, and because shed reasonably suggested there was a delay in re-investment 
due to her personal circumstances.
But having considered her overall financial objectives of achieving capital growth whilst 
remaining within her low to medium ATR, remaining in a cash fund for any extended 
period wouldnt have been suitable.
So I agree that she needed to move her funds out of the cash fund she was in, or in other 
words go on to make some form of investment. But CPL only made reference in its 
suitability report to the one alternative arrangement  the transfer to the Nucleus SIPP, 
with the Flexi- Access Drawdown arrangement and to invest her funds in a Managed 
Cautious Portfolio under a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). It didnt provide any 
information about other options, nor discuss the option of remaining in her existing SIPP. 
So as it didnt provide a comparison of the projected growth between the proposed fund 
choice, and the existing alternatives provided by LV, I cant see how Mrs B wouldve been 
able, with the information CPL provided her, to have made an informed choice. Nor that it 
would be reasonable to expect her to have been able to do this.
She already held a SIPP provided by LV, and Ive not seen anything which would lead me 
to think she was unhappy with the service provided by LV. In fact it has been documented 
by CPL that she was happy with the returns her investments with LV had produced. So I 
think that had she been given the option by CPL, its likely she wouldve stayed in her LV 
SIPP, and invested in a fund which matched her objectives and ATR. And having looked 
at her SIPP I can see this was possible. She already had access to an extensive range of 
investment options, many of which that matched her ATR and investment objectives and 
so wouldve been a suitable alternative.
But CPL didnt give Mrs B any of this information. I can see in its recommendation report 
that it has recorded Mrs Bs key objective was to have her funds actively managed and 
that wasnt possible with LV. But it appears this was only because LVs funds werent included in CPLs Centralised Investment Proposition. Just because a firm doesnt have a 
relationship with a SIPP provider doesnt justify recommending a transfer away, especially 
when that transfer incurs significant cost to the consumer. Mrs B couldve remained in her 
current SIPP and just changed the fund she was invested in, selected from the extensive 
range available to her. And I think it likely the fees and charges associated with a fund 
switch within her existing SIPP wouldve been lower because of the reduced amount of 
administration required by such a move. Im also not persuaded she was someone 
seeking any particular form of more specialist fund that wasnt available with her current 
provider. So I cannot see any persuasive reason that it was suitable for her to have been 
advised, without any apparent consideration of alternatives, to transfer from the SIPP she 
was in with LV, to the SIPP provided by Nucleus, and in doing so incurring the transfer 
fees.
It seems reasonable to me to conclude its more likely than not that the fees generated for 
other parties, including CPL for example, were likely to be higher where advice on a 
transfer is given rather than just further investment within an existing product. And this is 
before the additional costs associated with the DFM are considered.
For clarity the following is what she was charged as a result of the switch:
The advice given by CPL incurred a fee, and on this occasion, the transfer fee was 3% of 
the fund value, which was equivalent to just under £4,000. But in addition to this fee, there 
were ongoing annual fees associated with the advice and Nuclear SIPP:
1% ongoing adviser fee
a wrap fee of 0.35%
Total portfolio charge of 0.51%
A DFM annual fee of 0.15%
This meant, in addition to the initial advice fee, the annual charges associated with 
the Nucleus SIPP and its fund management totalled 2.01%.
Was the fund suitable
Having looked at the Managed Cautious Portfolio Mrs Bs pension fund was placed into, 
I agree that this was suitable. I can see it was diverse and it matched her ATR and 
financial objectives. But I need to decide if it was suitable or necessary to place Mrs B 
in a DFM service. And to do this I have taken into account the regulators July 2012 
finalised guidance on centralised investment propositions, which says the decision 
whether to use a DFM or not is likely to need to at least take into account the following 
issues:
Likely cost: Do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance
Size of fund under management
Investors knowledge and experience
Level of disclosure.
And having considered these I cant see that the cautious risk rating of the selected 
fund warranted the regular input of a DFM.
The funds were held in relatively low-risk assets with reduced volatility and 
modest projected growth. And as there was an on-going adviser fee charged 
it would be expected that CPL would regularly review the investments in full 
itself, and this wouldnt represent value for money in combination with the DFM fee.
The fund was modest in value. Mrs B was more likely to have benefited from 
a regular review by CPL of her range of mixed-asset funds and taking into 
account anything that might need to be done if she reached a stage where 
she intended to start thinking about taking benefits
The regulator said the adviser needed a reasonable belief that the investor 
could understand the nature of the risks of the underlying investments the 
DFM might make, and would likely benefit from the regular reports on their 
investments.
I cant see that Mrs B wouldve benefitted from this at all. She was looking to invest her 
pension fund in a relatively low risk fund, had little to no experience in investments and 
was willing to take very little risk.
As a result of all of the above, I agree that CPLs recommendation to switch the funds Mrs 
B held in the SIPP managed by LV, into a SIPP with Nucleus, was unsuitable. I cant say 
for certain what she would have done, but I think that had Mrs B been given suitable 
advice, the option she would most likely have selected was to retain her pension funds 
within the LV SIPP, and she would have invested in a cautious fund, broadly similar to the 
one she was placed in with Nucleus, but without the services of a DFM.
Had the SIPP transfer from LV to Nucleus not happened, she wouldnt have incurred the 
3% transfer fee, nor the 0.15% DFM annual fee. But from what Ive seen I do think it likely 
she wouldve chosen to retain an element of ongoing advice from CPL. I say this because 
she had an ongoing relationship with them, and had the intention at the time of the advice 
to take some income from her pension fund at some point in the following few years. So 
as ongoing advice was likely to have been needed by her, I consider the 1% annual fee 
charged by CPL to be fair. And in terms of the remaining charges (0.35% wrap fee and 
0.51% portfolio charge) I cant say for certain what these wouldve been had she remained 
with LV in a cautious fund, but I think it would be fair to say they wouldve been broadly 
similar.
Im also satisfied that Mrs B has been caused some distress and inconvenience by being 
given poor advice to transfer her pensions plan, and having to revise her pension 
arrangements. I consider the compensation of £250 as suggested by the investigator fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
In my provisional decision I set out the methodology I thought CPL should use to fairly 
calculate if Mrs B had suffered any financial loss. I invited both Mrs B and CPL to respond 
and submit any further additional information or arguments they wished me to consider. Mrs 
B accepted my findings, and CPL responded to say it had no further submission to make
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of there not being any new information submitted by either 
Mrs B or CPL, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.I take the view that Mrs B would have remained with her previous provider in the existing 
SIPP. However, I cannot be certain what fund(s) she would have invested her pension in, 
other than taking the view that it would have been appropriate for the approach to have 
been cautious, and broadly similar to the investment approach and fund she was advised to 
take within the Nucleus SIPP. So overall I think it likely that fund investment performance 
wouldve been broadly similar. 
However I do think the initial reduction in fund value due to the unnecessary 3% transfer 
fee meant a loss in initial value and subsequent investment loss from this amount. I also 
think the reduction of the 0.15% DFM annual fee needs to be taken into consideration. 
So in order to put Mrs B back as closely as possible to where she wouldve been had she 
been suitably advised, I think CPL should undertake a loss calculation. 
What must CPL do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly, CPL must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's pension with the notional value if there had 
been neither the initial 3% transfer fee reduction in value, nor the 0.15% DFM 
annual fees.  If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation 
is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
CPL should pay into Mrs B's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CPL is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs B's marginal rate of tax at 
her selected retirement age, which was likely to have been the current basic rate of 
tax.
If there is a fee associated with ceasing the DFM arrangement, then CPL should 
meet this cost
CPL should add interest as set out in the table below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CPL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. CPL should give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Nucleus 
SIPP 
(Managed 
cautious 
portfolio)Liquid Fund value 
calculated 
without the 
3% initial 
transfer fee 
and ongoing 
annual 
0.15% FDM 
fees 
reductionDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using fund values which had not been reduced by the fees as shown in the table above.
The withdrawals Mrs B made from her fund should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point they were actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. To keep the calculations simpler, Ill accept if CPL total all 
those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically.
I consider this remedy fair and reasonable as the growth her pension fund achieved with the 
Nucleus SIPP is likely to broadly reflect that which it wouldve achieved had she invested in 
a similar way with LV but takes into account the unnecessary fees and charges imposed.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Capital Professional Limited to pay Mrs B the amount as calculated above, and in 
addition pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman