DRN-3407265
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage, which until recently, Mrs and Mr J held with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). They sold their home and paid the mortgage off in 
2021. Mrs and Mr J complain that RBS reported non-payment of monthly instalments on 
their credit file from mid-2019 onwards after Mr J suffered a serious injury and couldnt work 
for a period. They believed RBS had agreed a reduced payment arrangement. Mrs and Mr J 
says this reporting has impacted on their attempts to buy a new property, leaving them in 
rented accommodation costing a lot more than a new mortgage would.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr J and RBS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in 
Mrs and Mr J being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
I should also explain that its for me to decide if I have enough information, or whether I need 
to contact either party directly, in order to decide the complaint fairly. Here, I have everything 
I need to reach my decision without pursuing any further enquiries with either party.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. The starting point here is that, under 
the terms of the underlying contract, Mrs and Mr J were obliged to make monthly payments 
in full and on time every month. Also, RBS is not just permitted but required to record 
factually accurate data about Mrs and Mr Js payment record on their respective credit files. 
The next thing to consider is whether RBS said or wrote something to Mrs and Mr J causing 
them to believe:
firstly, that they had a mutually-agreed and formal arrangement to make reduced 
payments; and
secondly, that if they didnt make the normal payments in full, this would go unreported 
on their credit file.
Having considered everything that both sides have said and provided, Im satisfied the 
outcome of this complaint turns on the content of two telephone conversations between Mr J 
and RBS, dated 10 July 2019 and 10 September 2019. Having listened to a recording of 
both conversations, Im not persuaded RBS said anything that could reasonably had led 
Mrs and Mr J to believe either of the above things. In fact, quite the opposite is the case. 
In both calls, RBS handlers tried to persuade Mr J to undertake an income and expenditure 
analysis, as a precursor to setting up a formal arrangement. On both occasions he declined 
to do so, preferring instead that he and Mrs J pay what they could when they could pending 
the intended sale of their home. On both occasions the call handler explained that they could 
do this but that it would be reflected in the reporting on their credit files. On both occasions, 
Mr J acknowledged that prospect, and was seemingly untroubled by it.
As for the reporting itself, Ive noted what Mr J has said about always paying something 
every month until the mortgage was repaid. Ive also looked at what RBS recorded on 
Mrs and Mr Js credit file. Taking into account what lenders are required to do to ensure what 
has been reported fairly and accurately reflects what has happened, theres no basis for me 
to find that the entries RBS placed on Mrs and Mr Js credit files should be removed or 
amended in any way.
Mrs and Mr J may have paid something every month, but they didnt pay in full, so each 
month there was a shortfall. Over time, that shortfall accumulated to the point where the 
aggregate exceeded more than a months instalment, and subsequently more than one 
month. RBSs reporting reflects that, so its fair and reasonable. 
Mrs and Mr J have argued their credit record would be treated more favourably by potential 
lenders if the payment shortfall had been recorded as an arrangement. That is a possibility, 
but insofar as there wasnt a formal arrangement  however much Mrs and Mr J might argue 
otherwise  the point is moot.
Mrs and Mr J ask why RBS cant be ordered to remove the adverse entries as a matter of 
goodwill, or at least add a notice of correction. A gesture of goodwill is, by definition, 
something a business chooses to do of its own volition, rather than something it does 
because it is ordered to. And I cant order RBS to change what it has reported, because it 
hasnt done anything wrong. As for adding a notice of correction, that is something that can 
only be added to a persons credit file by the individual themselves. Very simply, thats how 
the credit reporting system works.
I know how unhappily this decision will land with Mrs and Mr J; theyve been very open and 
eloquent about the impact on them of being in rented accommodation rather than being able 
to buy a new home. Its a horrible situation, and Im not unsympathetic towards them. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, RBS didnt create that situation. Also, Ive not seen 
Mrs and Mr Js full, unedited, credit files, which means I cant exclude the possibility that they 
contain data from other creditors that might be impacting on their ability to obtain a new 
mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman