DRN-3107390
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car supplied under an agreement with Arval UK Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mr N was supplied with a new car and entered into a personal contract hire 
agreement with Arval. 
Mr N says that when the car was delivered it was raining and he didnt notice any damage. 
However, the following day, Mr N found paint chips on the bonnet and a scuff on the rear 
bumper.
Mr N contacted the broker and the supplying dealer to advise them of the damage. He says 
he was told by the broker that the issues would be rectified and that he should email the 
customer relations team with photos of the damage, which he did.
The supplying dealership refused to take responsibility for the damage. It said Mr N had 
signed the delivery note to say that there was no damage to the car.
Mr N asked for a copy of the delivery note and the pre delivery inspection. He eventually 
received the delivery note but the supplying dealership refused to provide the pre delivery 
inspection and photos. It said the delivery note didnt indicate that any damage was found.
Mr N wasnt happy with the outcome of his complaint and complained to this service. He 
wants the damage recorded so he isnt charged for it at the end of the agreement. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she was persuaded, having looked at the 
photos, that the damage to the car wouldnt have been obvious in wet conditions and could 
have been overlooked when the car was delivered, hence the absence of any damage noted 
on the delivery note. The investigator said the damage meant that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that it was up to the business to put things right by repairing the 
damage. 
Arval didnt agree. It said there were no comments on the delivery note to indicate that the 
weather was bad or that the car hadnt been cleaned. It said Mr N had signed the delivery 
note to say that there was no damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Arval supplied the car under a contract hire agreement, theres an implied term that 
it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. 
I would expect a brand-new car, such as that supplied to Mr N, to be of a very high standard 
and to be free from faults and defects for a reasonable period of time.
Both Mr N and Arval have provided photos of the car. These show damage to the bonnet 
and the bumper. Theres no doubt that the damage exists. Mr N says the he didnt notice the 
damage until the day after the car was delivered, because of poor weather conditions on the 
day of delivery. Arval says that Mr N signed the delivery note stating that there was no 
damage to the car. Arval hasnt expressly said that Mr N caused the damage, but this, in my 
view, is implicit from Arvals response to the complaint, because it relies on the delivery note 
to assert that there was no damage at the point of delivery.
Mr N took delivery of the car on 10 March 2021. He says it was raining and that he inspected 
the car in the rain and didnt see any damage. I can see that Mr N contacted the dealership 
the following day to report the damage. He says he hasnt driven the car since it was 
delivered to him. He provided photos of the damage that day.
Ive looked at the photos. Having done so, I think its plausible that the marks on the bonnet 
and the bumper wouldnt have been visible in the rain. I also think its unlikely that the 
damage was caused between the car being delivered and Mr N contacting the dealership 
the following day. Mr N says he didnt drive the car anywhere during this time and Ive no 
reason to doubt his testimony. Even if Mr N did drive the car during this time, I think its 
unlikely that the damage would have been caused to two separate areas of the car in such a 
short time.
Arval relies on the delivery note. However, I dont think it matters if Mr N signed the delivery 
note to say there was no damage. The real issue is whether or not the car was of 
satisfactory quality. If Im satisfied  which I am  that the damage was more likely to have 
been present at the point of supply, then it follows that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply and, under the relevant legislation, its up to the business to put things 
right. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Arval must arrange for repairs to be carried out at no cost to Mr N.
Its clear that Mr N has been caused inconvenience by this issue. Hes had to spend time 
pursuing this complaint. This could have been avoided if Arval had resolved the issue 
sooner, so I think its fair to ask Arval to pay compensation to Mr N.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Arval UK Limited must:
Arrange for the damage to be repaired at no cost to Mr N within 4 weeks of Mr N accepting 
this decision
Pay compensation to Mr N in the sum of £100 for trouble and upset  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman