DRN-2671536
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back 
Loan from TSB Bank plc. 
Mrs N is Ts director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
T was looking to apply for a Bounce Back Loan from TSB in early May 2020.
TSB required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. And while Mrs N held a personal account with TSB, T didnt. So, on 
9 May, Mrs N applied for a business current account for T.
TSB accepted Ts application and opened its new account on 27 May. But it told Mrs N that it 
needed further information about the company before it could proceed with an application for 
the Bounce Back Loan. Mrs N provided a tax return and updated her personal details as the 
bank requested.
However, after all the outstanding requirements were attended to, Mrs N was told on 24 July 
that T wasnt able to apply to TSB for a Bounce Back Loan after all. This was because the 
bank was only accepting applications from customers whod opened their business account 
by 11 May.
Mrs N complained. She didnt think the banks decision on her application was fair and was 
unhappy that the lengthy process with TSB had stopped her applying for a Bounce Back 
Loan elsewhere. The bank stood by its decision, but accepted that the process had taken 
longer than it shouldve done and that this had delayed T in obtaining a loan. It apologised 
for this and paid £75 into Ts account. 
Mrs N didnt accept TSBs response and referred the complaint to us. In the meantime, T 
successfully applied for a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere.
Our investigator thought TSB needed to do more to put things right. In summary, she didnt 
think T was ever going to be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan with TSB as the requisite 
account wasnt going to be open by 11 May. And she thought the bank ought to have 
realised this sooner  and avoided putting T to the inconvenience of continuing its process 
over a ten-week period, which proved unnecessary in the end. So she recommended that 
TSB pay T a further £200 compensation. 
Mrs N accepted our investigators view but TSB still thought the £75 it had already paid was 
far compensation. It said T would always have needed the account in order to apply for the 
loan, and that the length of time things would take was dependent on the individual 
application. So the bank asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should set out that I dont think TSB did anything wrong in requiring T to open an 
account before it could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. Lenders have the discretion to decide 
the basis on which they accept applications from new customers, and the requirement to 
open a new account is reasonable. T was required to do so in line in line with TSBs 
standard process, so it wasnt treated unfairly. 
Similarly, I think it was up to TSB to decide to limit the applications it was willing to receive to 
those customers who had an account open by 11 May 2020. But the issue here is that given 
this policy, T was never going to meet the banks requirements. T applied for the account on 
9 May and TSB has confirmed to us that  even discounting the exceptional circumstances 
arising from the pandemic  it wouldve taken longer than two days to open the account. 
There was, then, no point in T applying  as it had only wanted the account in order to obtain 
a Bounce Back Loan.
I think TSB ought to have made T aware of this  either at the outset or, at the very least, 
once it started engaging with Mrs N about information needed for a Bounce Back Loan 
application (which was never going to be possible). 
TSB says that it notified customers of the 11 May cut-off date on its website. While I accept 
thats displayed now, Ive not seen that it was shown at the time Mrs N submitted her online 
application. But even if it was, she was still applying before the cut-off date, and would have 
no knowledge of how long it would take the bank to open the account. So I dont think this 
was sufficient for her to make her aware that T wasnt going to be able to obtain a Bounce 
Back Loan from TSB, even if it managed to open the requisite account.
Its clear from TSBs internal notes that it knew T wanted the account in order to apply for the 
Bounce Back Loan, so arguably it couldve followed up with Mrs N on this on or after 11 May 
when the account hadnt yet been opened. TSB says that it attempted to notify those of its 
customers who were in this position by email, but it hasnt evidenced that it contacted, or 
attempted to contact, Mrs N. 
Even once the account was opened on 27 May, TSB continued to liaise with Mrs N about 
various requirements in order to proceed with a Bounce Back Loan application  which it 
shouldve known wasnt going to be possible. It only confirmed this on or around 24 July, 
missing a number of opportunities in the interim to have clarified the position. For example, it 
wrote to Mrs N on 6 June to say that it would need proof that T was trading prior to 1 March 
2020 in order to process the loan application. 
T was able to obtain a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere, and Mrs N hasnt pointed to any 
financial losses as a result of the issues with TSB. But I think T spent a lot of time and effort 
in going through both the account-opening process and some preliminary checks related to 
the loan application unnecessarily as a result of the banks errors. 
In addition to the original application, Mrs N had to liaise with the bank in response to a 
number of follow-up requests and provide further information  including visiting a branch to 
complete a change of name form. The bank maintains that all these checks were necessary, 
but that misses the point. I accept they would be necessary in order to provide a Bounce 
Back Loan, but as the bank was never going to do that there was no need to put T through these administrative processes. Its right that T is compensated for the inconvenience it was 
caused, and I agree that an additional £200 is fair in the circumstances.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay a 
further £200 compensation on top of the £75 its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman