DRN-3850561
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with Blue 
Motor Finance (BMF) wasnt fit for purpose but BMF wouldnt allow him to reject it within the 
cooling off period. He would like a refund of the deposit, diagnostic costs, car tax and 
insurance, and compensation for time taken to resolve his complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr M has told us he asked to withdraw from the finance agreement within the 14-day 
cooling off period that he had to do so. According to the HPA agreement the right to 
withdraw took effect from the day after BMF told him in writing that  it had executed 
the agreement and would last for 14 days. The letter BMF sent Mr M, which I have 
seen, was dated 22 June 2022 . So, Mr M had until 6 July 2022 to withdraw from the 
agreement. I have seen an email Mr M sent dated 5 July 2022 asking to withdraw 
from the agreement, so I do believe he was in time to do so.
However, I think Mr M has misunderstood what withdrawing from the agreement 
means so I dont feel he has been disadvantaged by not being able to do so. As the 
welcome letter states The right to withdraw only relates to the credit agreement 
between us  it does not relate the contract you have with the supplier of your goods 
or services. The HPA gives more detail explaining that if BMF had already provided 
the credit then Mr M would need to pay that back within 30 days.  BMF would remain 
the owner of the car during  this time and if the credit wasnt paid back then it would 
sell the car leaving Mr M liable for any shortfall.
Mr M did however have a right to reject the car if it wasnt of satisfactory quality, not 
fit for purpose or not as described within 30 days of having the car. Mr M raised 
issues of a damp smell, scuffing, stains, marks, tyre pressure, wheels making a 
screeching noise, a battery in the spare key not working and that the car wasnt 
taxed. I am conscious Mr M signed a HPA agreement for a seven-year-old car with 
approximately 42000 miles on the clock. I think he could reasonably expect more 
wear and tear issues with a used car than with a new one. The issues he raised with 
the dealership seem to me to be largely cosmetic and expected wear and tear 
issues.
However, I have seen an email chain between Mr M and the dealership in which the 
dealership offered to either send a driver to come and collect the car and unwind the 
agreement or give Mr M  a sum of money to keep the car. Mr M chose not to return 
the car and cancel the agreement but  to accept the offer of £400 which was 
accepted in full and final settlement. So, although Mr M later  emailed to ask to reject 
the car within the 30 days he had to do so he had already agreed and accepted a 
resolution  to keep the car with a reduction in price. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably now expect BMF to allow Mr M to reject the car , pay the costs he has 
asked for or compensate him for his time and trouble
I do appreciate that after our investigator issued her view  Mr M has submitted an 
invoice for work needed to the car for a significant sum of money. But the invoice 
covers a lot of replacement parts such as filters, seal rings brake linings and discs, 
brake fluid, plugs, gear oil, switches, seat belts as well as checking of wring all of 
which I think  would be classed as wear, and tear and routine maintenance which 
might reasonably be expected with a car that was 7 years old when he got it.
The more significant items on the invoice relate to tyre replacements of which I have 
no evidence that the tyres would be brand new at the point of sale. The other main 
issue related to water leakage and damage with the invoice stating that  water has 
leaked from the convertible hood drains.  Mr Ms car  is a convertible with a fabric 
roof  which would  be subject to wear and tear. I have no evidence that this was 
failing at the point Mr M got the car  the damp smell he noticed at the time could 
have been down to a number or factors for example the roof might have been left up 
at some point allowing rain to enter. Ultimately Mr M chose not to further investigate 
this at the time or to take up the offer to unwind his agreement , instead he chose to 
take the car as it was with a financial settlement .So I dont think I can reasonably 
now tell BMF to allow him to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman