DRN-3373834
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) havent accepted 
or paid out the full claim she made under her car insurance policy.
She also complains about the level of service she has received from Advantage.
What happened
Mrs Ws car was damaged in early June 2021 while it was parked. She wasnt in the vehicle.
Mrs W made a claim to Advantage, saying she thought someone had driven into the rear 
bumper of her car and caused criminal damage. She claimed for damage caused to the 
drivers door, passengers door, back bumper, and scratches to the paintwork.
Advantage originally arranged for the vehicle to be repaired by one of its approved repairers. 
But after reviewing the vehicle is was agreed that an independent report was required to 
assess the damage caused to the car. 
The independent report concluded that the damage caused to the rear bumper and the 
scratches on the right rear door was in relation to the claim. But damage to the left front door 
and left rear door was due to car parking dents and damage to the right door handle were 
due to jewellery scratches. As a result of the independent report findings, Advantage agreed 
that it would pay the cost of repair for the rear bumper and right rear door (minus any excess 
due by Mrs W).
Mrs W arranged a quote for repair from a garage of her choice. The garage quoted around 
£1900 for all the damage to be repaired, including labour costs etc. Advantage didnt agree 
to pay this because they said they werent liable for all the damage and they said the garage 
didnt determine the cause of the damage, only the cost of repairing it. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint. She also complained about the time it 
had taken for Advantage to reply to her queries.
Advantage reviewed the claim but said it wouldnt be paying for the full cost of repair  only 
for the repairs related to the claim. But they did agree that the customer service and 
response times to Mrs W hadnt been ideal. They offered to pay her £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Advantages final response, Mrs W brought the complaint to this service. She 
said she wanted the full claim to be paid and complained about the poor customer service 
shed received from Advantage.
One of our investigators investigated the matter and agreed with the stance Advantage had 
taken. They said without further evidence to support how the damage had been caused, the 
fairest and most reasonable explanation was in line with the independent report. Therefore, 
they agreed that Advantage should pay for the damage caused to the rear bumper and the 
scratches on the right rear door. They also thought that the customer service Advantage had 
provided had fallen short and agreed with the £50 that had previously been offered by 
Advantage.
Mrs W disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, 
the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive explained my findings below.
Advantage is only liable and responsible for the damage caused to Mrs Ws vehicle under 
the claim she made. This means the damage must be as a result of the accident or incident 
which caused Mrs W to make her claim. 
When Mrs W reported the damage caused to her vehicle, she said the following had 
occurred:
Between 1900pm 31.05.21 to 10.30am 1.6.21 it appears that someone has driven into the 
rear bumper causing it to push back and scraped and scratched and dented rear panel also 
there is dents and scratches to the front passenger door and driver side front door handles 
scratched and various small scratches across the car my car was parked up stationery for 
the night.
To assess the damage and the causes of it, Advantage arranged for an independent report 
to be completed. The result of the report was that not all damage was because of the 
incident being claimed for. The report suggested that the dent in the rear bumper and 
scratches on the right rear door were consistent with the incident being claimed for. But that 
all other damage was because of other incidents or accidents, such as car parking dents or 
jewellery scratches.
Having reviewed the report in full and reviewed the photo evidence thats been provided, I 
have no reason to depart from the findings made by the independent report.
Advantage said it would consider the findings from an alternative independent report if Mrs 
W wanted one  but this wasnt done. So, with no further evidence to support her claim  I 
cannot reasonably say that all the damage Mrs W wants repaired was because of the 
incident she is claiming for. Therefore, I think Advantages offer to pay for the incident 
related damage is fair. 
Advantage has said Mrs W can get a quote for repairs related to the incident (rear bumper 
dent and scratches on right rear door) from the garage she previously used. They will then 
review this, and if its reasonable, will arrange for payment to be made (minus any excess 
due). I think this is a fair outcome in the circumstances.
Customer service
Mrs W has said that throughout her dealings with Advantage shes had to chase for 
responses and things have taken longer than they should have. Ive reviewed the 
communication between Advantage and Mrs W and agree it hasnt always been as 
forthcoming as it shouldve been. This has meant at times Mrs W has been left wondering 
whats going on. Advantage recognised this, they apologised for delayed responses between July, August and September last year and offered to pay Mrs W £50. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances and I do not think Advantage needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. I think the offer made 
by Advantage to pay for incident related damage (minus any excess) and to pay £50 for the 
poor service is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman