DRN-2764162
The complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) turned down a 
chargeback request he made in connection with a hotel booking.
What happened
Mr P made a hotel reservation through a third party website. The terms of the reservation 
said:
If you cancel or change your plans, please cancel your reservation in accordance with the
property's cancellation policies to avoid a no-show charge.
Cancellations or changes made after 18:00 (Central Europe Standard Time) on 6 Aug
2019 or no-shows are subject to a property fee equal to the first nights rate plus taxes and
fees.
Mr Ps plans changed so he checked in a day later than planned. He told the hotel about this 
on 8 August 2019, and accepted he would have to pay the fee of the first nights rate.
On 12 August Mr P told the hotel he was leaving a day early. The hotel charged him for the 
final night which Mr P thought was unfair. He considered both amendments shouldve been 
covered by the same fee. 
He raised a chargeback request with AESEL but the business concluded the hotels second 
charge was fair. So it declined Mr Ps chargeback request and didnt provide a refund. Mr P 
wasnt happy with AESELs response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Based on the evidence 
hed seen, the investigator didnt consider it was unreasonable for AESEL to turn down Mr 
Ps chargeback request. 
In addition, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr P had any claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He maintained that the booking terms 
meant only one cancellation charge applied, irrespective of how many changes were made 
to the booking.
Mr P also said the second charge didnt correspond to anything shown on the price 
breakdown for the booking.
Mr P asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Mr Ps original hotel booking he was due to stay at the hotel from 8 to 17 August 
2019, inclusive. Under the booking terms, changes made after 6pm on 6 August were 
subject to a fee equal to the first nights rate plus taxes and fees.
On 8 August Mr P told the hotel he wouldnt be checking in until the following day. So he 
accepted he would have to pay the fee for that amendment.
In his most recent submissions to this service Mr P has said that when he checked in on 9 
August, he told the hotel he would be leaving a day early. He says the receptionist said she 
would need to check this with the manager and when Mr P heard nothing further, on 12 
August he sent an email confirming his early departure plans. 
The hotel charged for the night he wasnt there. Mr P objected to this because he considered 
all changes to one booking should be covered by one fee.
I can see why Mr P might take that view. And I might be inclined to agree with him if hed 
made several changes at the same time. But he made the changes on different days. As this 
wouldve created additional administration for the hotel, I dont consider it was unreasonable 
for it to apply the charge and Im satisfied that it did so in line with the booking terms. And so 
I dont consider it was unreasonable for AESEL to decline the chargeback request.
I understand Mr P may have made another booking from 7 to 17 August, but this was 
cancelled before the 8 to 17 August booking was made. I think its possible that the 
discrepancy in the price charged for the last night may be related to the cancelled booking. 
But this point wasnt raised in Mr Ps original complaint and isnt relevant to the chargeback 
issue that is the subject of this complaint. So I wont be making any findings on that point in 
this final decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman