DRN-2120550
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) are charging her for a successful mis-
sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim she says they had no authority to make.
What happened
In August 2019, TCG received an application to make a mis-sold PPI claim for Ms C against 
Lender B. They prepared and submitted the claim, which was successful in February 2020. 
Ms C received almost £11,000 compensation and TCG invoiced her for their fees.
Ms C has complained that TCG had no authority to make any claims on her behalf. She says 
she didnt sign any Letter of Authority (LOA) and that the signature on the LOA wasnt her 
complete signature. Ms C has also said there are discrepancies in the information TCG had, 
and that shed dealt with Lender B directly about the claim.
TCG said they made the claim for Ms C, so theyre entitled to their fee. But they also said 
that, because Ms C had dealt directly with Lender B throughout part of the claims process, 
theyd reduce their fees by 10%. Ms C didnt accept this offer and brought her complaint to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said that TCG had started the claims process for Ms C in August 2019. And 
because there was a 29 August 2019 deadline for making PPI claims, any claim wouldve 
been automatically registered by Lender B if it was found that Ms C had been sold PPI. 
He also said that, while an error in the email address on the application meant that Lender B 
contacted Ms C for further information, this didnt mean that TCG didnt make the claim. So 
he felt they were entitled to their fee.
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. She said that TCG shouldve taken steps to validate 
the information on the LOA, and that shed signed it and wanted them to act for her, before 
they did anything on her claim. And she says that, because she didnt receive a contract or 
any contact from them, she genuinely didnt know TCG were acting for her.
Ms C has also said that shes looked at their online form and it doesnt ask for enough 
information to allow TCG to fully represent her  theyd have needed extra information. So 
shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Ms C; Ive reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen the LOA, signed on 5 August 2019, which allowed TCG to make the claim against 
Lender B on Ms Cs behalf. The LOA was completed online and had an electronic signature. 
These signatures will either be done by a finger or stylus on a touch screen device, such as 
a smart phone or tablet; or done by a mouse/mousepad on a device such as a laptop or 
desktop computer. Because of the nature of these signatures they differ from a wet signature 
 one done by pen on paper.
Ms C has said the signature on the LOA doesnt match hers. For the reasons given, I 
wouldnt expect an electronic and wet signature to match. But I would expect them to be 
sufficiently similar that a lender would be able to match them with their records and be 
satisfied the LOA was signed by the person it was claimed to be signed by. And Ive not 
seen anything to show me that Lender B rejected the LOA because of the signature. 
Ms C believes that TCG shouldve taken steps to validate that the signature and the LOA 
came from her. But, because of any signature checks Lender B would undertake, and 
because any compensation would only be paid to Ms C, not to TCG or any other third-party, 
I dont think that TCG needed to do any additional validation. There are no circumstances 
within this claims process where any compensation due to Ms C would be paid to a third-
party who mightve made a claim on her behalf, and without her knowledge.
Ms Cs first name is also showing twice on the LOA, and her email address is incorrect  it 
has an extra a in her surname. The LOA is generated from the information that wouldve 
been typed into TCGs online portal. And as I havent seen the information typed into the 
portal itself, I cant say why Ms Cs first name is showing twice  it could be an error in what 
was typed, or it could be a system error which added the first name twice to the LOA.
I also think that the email address being wrong is most likely a typo, as its a rogue letter 
added rather than the email address being completely incorrect. An email address being 
typed in incorrectly wouldnt have stopped the application from being made. But an incorrect 
email address would explain why Ms C didnt receive any claim updates from TCG.
So, for me to say that Ms C didnt instruct TCG, and didnt electronically sign the LOA; it 
wouldve had to be done by someone who knew enough of her personal information to be 
able to make a claim (including her email address and which lenders shed had accounts 
with in the past), and could do an electronic signature sufficiently similar to Ms Cs that a 
Lender B would accept it as genuine. And by someone who couldnt financially gain from 
making an application with Ms Cs knowledge. I find it very unlikely this wouldve happened. 
In signing the LOA, Ms C agreed that shed read and understood TCGs terms. Which 
included when and how much shed get charged. So, while Ms C didnt receive any copies of 
documents because her email address had been entered incorrectly, this doesnt mean that 
shes not bound by the terms she agreed to.
Ive also seen the letter to Ms C, from Lender B, dated 14 February 2020. This letter (which 
had the same duplication of Ms Cs first name as the LOA) confirmed that the claim had 
been a success based on your application form, the information you provided, the 
information provided by The Claims Guys Limited and our internal system evidence. The 
letter also confirmed that, where a claim has been represented by a claims management 
company you will need to settle any fees or charges with them directly.Based on the above, Im satisfied that TCG submitted the claim to Lender B on Ms Cs 
behalf  Lender B not only acknowledged that this was the case, and that Ms C was 
responsible for paying TCGs fees, they also replicated the first name error from the LOA. 
And the claim TCG submitted was successful. Given this, I agree that TCG are entitled to 
charge a fee in line with the terms Ms C agreed to when she instructed them. 
But Ive seen that Lender B wrote to Ms C on 18 December 2019, asking her to complete a 
PPI questionnaire which was needed to progress her claim. The questionnaire captures 
details of what PPI products were sold, and the circumstances of the sale. And its needed 
so Lender B could determine whether the sale was a mis-sale or not. Ive noted this letter 
has the same duplicated first name as the LOA, and the reference details match with the 
letter of 14 February 2020. So Im satisfied that this letter relates to the same claim TCG 
submitted for Ms C. 
Because TCG were acting as Ms Cs representative in the claim, then Lender B shouldnt 
have contacted her directly  they shouldve contacted TCG. Ms C would always have had 
to provide the information Lender B was asking for, either direct to Lender B (which she did) 
or to TCG to pass on to Lender B (which shouldve happened if Lender B had contacted 
TCG); so I dont think she was inconvenienced by having to complete the questionnaire. But 
TCG have reduced their fees by 10% as a goodwill gesture, because what happened 
shouldnt have happened. Given the circumstances, I think this is reasonable. And I wont be 
asking TCG to further reduce or waive their fees.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about The Claims Guys 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman