DRN-2597771
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Oodle is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was some 10 years old and had covered approximately 106,000 miles. As our 
investigator has pointed out it is reasonable to presume it would have suffered a fair degree 
of wear and tear. That said the car was in the garage for quite a few weeks while it was 
repaired.
Shortly after taking delivery Mr M encountered some issues and the car was taken back by 
the dealer for repair. I believe it is agreed that the repairs were carried out on the inlet 
manifold and air compressor. These repairs have been undertaken at no cost to Mr M.
The key question is whether the car was faulty at the point of sale. I appreciate that the faults 
were identified not long after the sale, but I also note that these were wear and tear items 
and they would not necessarily be expected to last beyond 10 years. On balance, I consider 
it most likely that they failed due to wear and tear.
Furthermore, no independent report has been supplied which would allow me to conclude 
that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale. In short this was an elderly car which 
would be expected to suffer from wear and tear issues and I have seen nothing that would 
allow me to conclude otherwise.
I appreciate Mr M was without the car for an extended period, but he was provided with a 
courtesy vehicle, even if it wasnt to his liking. However, having concluded that the faults 
were due to wear and tear then there is no breach of contract and Oodle is not responsible 
for the service levels provided by the dealer. As such I cannot hold it to account for any 
delays. 
In summary, Mr M acquired an elderly car which suffered from wear and tear. The faults 
were dealt with by the dealer at no cost to him. I can sympathise with him over the delays in 
getting his car back, but as I have explained I cannot hold Oodle responsible for that. I would 
add that I gather some of the delays were due to Covid restrictions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman