DRN-2788976
The complaint
Miss J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund her a payment made from 
her current account.
What happened
On 29 June 2020, Miss J was the unfortunate victim of a scam. She had been speaking 
with someone about renting a property abroad via a property rental website. Miss J agreed 
to rent the property and was sent a link to make the relevant payment -amounting to 
£1,702. Unbeknown to Miss J, she was actually dealing with scammers and the payment 
had not been paid to the rental company as she had expected  it had been sent to an 
international bank account. 
After speaking to a friend about the payment, Miss J became suspicious and contacted 
HSBC the next day, 30 July 2020, to make them aware that she had likely fallen victim to a 
scam. HSBC said it would raise a fraud complaint and contact the beneficiary bank on her 
behalf. 
Miss J contacted HSBC again on 1 July 2020 and was told there had been no update. So 
she contacted them again on 2 July 2020. This time, Miss J was given the number of the 
team within HSBC who would be responsible for investigating her complaint and Miss J 
proceeded to call them on the same day. When Miss J spoke to the fraud team, she was 
informed that an investigation had not been raised and the beneficiary bank had not been 
contacted. Miss J was also told that it usually took between 3-5 days for an international 
payment to be fully processed. 
A couple of days later, Miss J received a letter from HSBC saying that the beneficiary bank 
had been contacted and it had confirmed that none of her funds remained in the account 
and therefore, no further action could be taken.
Miss J was unhappy with HSBCs response and brought a complaint to our service. She was 
unhappy that the beneficiary bank had not been contacted as soon as she reported the fraud 
to HSBC on 30 June 2020. Miss J said this was well within the 3-5-day processing time she 
had been informed of by HSBC. Because of this, Miss J felt, had HSBC acted promptly the 
payment could have been stopped and she would not now be out of pocket. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Js complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt there 
wasnt anything about the payment that meant HSBC shouldve questioned Miss J about it 
before it allowed it to leave her account. She acknowledged that HSBC couldve contacted 
the beneficiary bank sooner than it did  she was satisfied a fraud complaint was sent to 
the relevant team when Miss J first reported the scam on 30 June 2020, but this wasnt 
actioned and the beneficiary bank werent contacted until Miss J called again on 2 July 
2020. However, she didnt think this would have resulted in the return of Miss Js funds as 
she felt it likely that they had already left Miss Js account by the time HSBC were notified 
of the scam  there was around 14 hours between the payment leaving Miss Js account 
and her notifying HSBC. 
Miss J disagreed with the investigators opinion. She reiterated that she had been told this 
type of payment would take 3-5 days to process and therefore maintained that the payment 
couldve been stopped had HSBC acted sooner than it did. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
As part of our investigation, our investigator contacted the receiving bank to find out when 
Miss Js funds were removed from the beneficiary account. Unfortunately, the beneficiary 
bank has said it will not be possible to send us this information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I first thought about whether the payment Miss J made was out of character and 
unusual for her account and I dont think it was. The payment was in-line with similar 
payments Miss J had made in the months prior. And I also need to keep in mind that 
it is not untypical for consumers to make one-off transactions for amounts such as 
this  as was the case here for a rental property. The scam payment did leave Miss 
Js account in a negative position but this wasnt uncommon for the account either. 
Ive thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. However, I dont 
find that a payment to a new payee was in itself suspicious enough to mean that 
HSBC shouldve considered that Miss J was at risk of financial harm. 
Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments as per its customers 
instruction and monitoring accounts for unusual and potentially harmful activity. And I 
dont think it would be fair to say that HSBC shouldve identified the payment Miss J 
made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks  especially given it was for a 
relatively small amount. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC couldve done more to help Miss J once it was 
notified of the scam and I agree that HSBC shouldve contacted the beneficiary bank 
sooner than it did. But, as the Investigator set out, I dont think this would have 
resulted in the return of Miss Js funds. 
It is not in dispute Miss J initially contacted HSBC on 30th June and the beneficiary 
bank werent contacted until 2 July 2020. However, HSBC has also been able to 
confirm that the funds left Miss Js account at 5.11am on 30 June 2020. Miss J didnt 
contact HSBC, through no fault of her own, to report the fraud until 19.08pm, around 
14 hours after the payment had been processed. 
Unfortunately, I havent been able to find out exactly when Miss Js funds were 
removed from the beneficiary account and so I have to base my findings on what I 
think is most likely to have happened. And I agree with the Investigator that its most 
likely that the funds were removed before HSBC were even made aware of the scam. 
Fraudsters usually monitor accounts carefully and remove any funds as quickly as 
possible to avoid the victim becoming aware and notifying their bank and the funds 
being returned. The 14 hours between Miss J making the payment and notifying 
HSBC wouldve provided the fraudsters with ample time to remove Miss Js funds and so Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Miss Js funds were removed 
during this time. 
Ive taken on board what Miss J has said about being informed by HSBC that an 
international payment, such as the one she made, taking 3-5 days to process. And I 
can see why this would make her think that the payment could have been stopped 
when she contacted the bank less than 24 hours after it had been made. But 
unfortunately, the information that HSBC provided to Miss J was incorrect and the 
payment was processed before she contacted HSBC and could not have been 
stopped. 
I am very sorry to hear about the situation Miss J has found herself in but I dont think her 
loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of HSBC and so I cant fairly ask HSBC to 
refund her. The fault here lies with the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman