DRN-4400444
The complaint
Miss A complains on behalf of her father, Mr A, that Bank of Scotland Plc sent information 
relating to his account to Miss A.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr A attended his local branch to open a new account, switching from an 
account at his old bank. Soon afterwards Miss A started receiving emails and text messages 
with sensitive information about his account details, including his PIN. Miss A contacted 
Bank of Scotland and gave Mr As up-to-date contact information but she continued to 
receive communications from the bank about Mr As account.
Bank of Scotland said that it was not a data breach because Mr A had had a credit card with 
it which was set up in 2014 and gave Miss As details as his contact details. It did say 
however that when Mr A attended the branch to open his new account, his contact details 
should have been updated. It offered £50 compensation. It said that Mr A would have to 
attend the branch to update his contact details.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that Bank of Scotland  
should increase the compensation to £200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr A.
Bank of Scotland accepted the proposed increased award. On behalf of Mr A, Miss A did not 
accept the award. They did not think it sufficient to compensate for the distress caused to 
Mr A and the inconvenience caused to him by having to make multiple trips to the bank..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So far as I can see, Bank of Scotland used Miss As contact details for Mr A's new account  
because he had previously had a credit card account with it which was linked to Miss A's 
contact details. Yet this account closed in 2019. Bank of Scotland isn't able to tell us exactly 
what happened during Mr As meeting at the branch as its complaints manager hasn't 
received a response from the said branch. I think it's fair to say that if a customer is setting 
up a new account and the only contact details available are at least nine years old and relate 
to a closed account, the contact information should have been updated. I think it most likely 
that the branch failed to get this information from Mr A and then contacted him using the out 
of date information from its files.
I understand that it would have caused Mr A distress to know that his confidential contact 
details were being sent to his daughter, even more so when Miss A gave the bank his 
updated contact details. I accept however that in those circumstances it was appropriate to 
require Mr A to attend the branch to make sure his contact details were updated with his full 
consent.
I've taken into account the distress caused to Mr A and the inconvenience caused to him for 
having to re-attend at his branch. I do think that however that the compensation award of 
£200 proposed by our Investigator is fair and reasonable, and is in line with awards we've 
made in similar circumstances.
Bank of Scotland has indicated that it does not believe that it breached Mr As data 
protection rights. That's not a matter that I can determine. If Mr A has concerns about Bank 
of Scotlands handling of his data he should contact the Information Commissioner's Office.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland PLC should pay Mr A £200 compensation..
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Bank of Scotland Plc to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman