DRN-2918785
The complaint
Miss I complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. unfairly declined to pay costs she claimed for under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss I travelled abroad on 17 March 2020. She travelled without a pre-booked return flight, 
but initially planned to stay for two weeks and have laser eye surgery. However on arrival 
she was told shed have to self-isolate for 14 days before she could go into the eye hospital 
and so did not end up arranging to have this treatment. 
On 26 March 2020 Miss I booked a flight to return home on 16 April 2020. But the airline 
later postponed her flight by several weeks due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Miss I booked a second flight home, due to depart on 1 May 2020. But this was cancelled. 
After contacting the British Embassy for assistance Miss I was able to get flights back to the 
UK on 27 April 2020 using a non-direct route.
When she got home Miss I made a claim under her annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
underwritten by Mapfre. Her policy was valid from 9 August 2019 to the 8 August 2020. 
Miss I complains that it took Mapfre over 3 months to deal with her claim, during which time 
she had to chase it on numerous occasions for updates. 
Mapfre then declined her claim citing the medical exclusions in the policy terms and 
conditions. It later said this exclusion had been applied incorrectly and agreed to consider 
the cost of the flights Miss I used to travel home, minus the cost of the initial return flight 
shed booked for 16 April 2020, amounting to a total £185.99. It apologised for the way it had 
handled her claim and waived the £80 policy excess as a gesture of goodwill. But explained 
that additional accommodation costs were not covered by the cancellation and curtailment 
section of the policy.
Miss I wasnt happy with this outcome. Shes explained she had to borrow a lot of money 
from family and friends to cover the cost of her hotel and additional return flights home. And 
asked that our service investigate to see if she is eligible for further reimbursement from 
Mapfre.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt think there was any cover 
under the policy for the additional accommodation expenses Miss I had incurred.
Miss I asked that her case be looked at by an ombudsman for a final decision. So it has 
been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my decision, Ive given regard to industry rules set out by the regulator which 
say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim.
I do empathise with Miss I. She incurred unexpected costs when she couldnt return from her 
trip when she intended, through no fault of her own. However that doesnt automatically 
mean Mapfre should cover all these costs. 
The policy sets out the terms and conditions under which Mapfre will meet a claim.
Mapfre has explained that if Miss I had travelled abroad with a pre-booked flight home, it 
would have considered the additional expenses shed incurred for her return journey home. I 
can see Miss I told Mapfre she was refunded for the two cancelled flights after 60 and 21 
days respectively. And Mapfre has also agreed to pay the difference in price between the 
third flight Miss I got home on 27 April 2020, and the first return flight shed booked for 16 
April 2020. 
However Mapfre says that there is no provision under the Cancelling and cutting short your 
holiday section of its policy to meet her additional accommodation expenses.
The policy says:
J - Cancelling and cutting short your holiday
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below we will 
pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on pages 6 and 7 for:
 Travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay under a 
contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid excursions, tours or 
activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or cutting short your trip; and
 Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting short your trip.
This section of the policy covers pre-agreed or pre-paid accommodation expenses in the 
event of a trip being necessarily cancelled or cut short. However in this instance Miss I didnt 
cancel or cut short her trip  rather her stay was extended. So I think Mapfre was acting 
fairly and reasonably when it said this section of the policy did not cover the additional 
accommodation costs Miss I incurred in this situation. 
Ive looked carefully at the rest of the policy to see if I think Miss I might be entitled to further 
payment under any other policy section. But I cant see that this is the case. 
I note that section A - Medical and other expenses refers to extra accommodation and 
travel expenses if you cannot continue with your trip as planned or return as you had 
originally booked. But Miss I doesnt have a valid claim under this section as the additional 
costs she incurred were not as a result of her being unexpectedly injured or taken ill on the 
trip.
Sections D and E of the policy provide some cover for delayed and missed departures when 
certain insured events occur. Miss I did not have cover under these sections of the policy as 
she did not purchase an economy plus or premium policy. But regardless, the circumstances she found herself in were not a result of one of the insured events listed in 
these sections. And so would not have been covered.
Miss I is unhappy with the amount of time it took Mapfre to respond to her claim. I can see 
she contacted it on a number of occasions for updates, and in response to requests for 
information she felt she had already provided. Mapfre has also agreed that the initial reason 
it gave for declining her claim  related to medical exclusions, was incorrect.
Mapfre apologised for the inconvenience and explained that its level of service has been 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. But it also waived Miss Is £80 policy excess as a 
gesture of goodwill. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking 
Mapfre to do anything more here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman