DRN-3208023
The complaint and what happened
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, allowed a fraudulent 
transaction on his account. He is also unhappy that Halifax isnt following the matter up with 
the relevant authorities. 
The full details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
On 29 June 2021, two transactions for £354.94 were attempted online. Only one 
successfully debited the account. Mr M contacted Halifax on 2 July 2021 to notify it 
that he hadnt carried out the transactions. It refunded the amount the same day, 
backdated to the date of the transaction. 
Mr M complained the transaction had been allowed in the first place. Halifax didnt 
uphold his complaint. Neither did our investigator. He wasnt persuaded anything 
about the transaction would have appeared suspicious such that Halifax ought to 
have blocked it. And whether Halifax does anything further in relation the matter, is 
something for it, not us. The investigator was satisfied Mr M hadnt suffered a 
financial loss as the refund had been backdated to the day of the transaction and as 
it hadnt formed part of the balance isnt something reported to credit reference 
agencies.
Mr M remains unhappy as he believes the transaction should have been stopped or 
at the very least been checked with 2 factor-authentication. And he has had 
legitimate transactions stopped but not this one and so questions the systems in 
place.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Im not persuaded there was anything suspicious about the transaction that meant 
Halifax ought to have intervened. Whilst the transaction might have taken place on a 
different device, that of itself doesnt necessarily indicate fraud. Whether additional 
measures are needed, such a 2 factor-authentication, is a matter for a banks own 
security prevention methods, and not something Id generally interfere with.
I understand the argument Mr M makes about a different delivery address. But Im 
not persuaded Halifax would have known where any items were due to be delivered 
as that information would have been entered on the merchants systems and not the 
banks. And many merchants allow delivery to an address that doesnt match the 
billing address. 
I have considered the argument Mr M has put forward about his recent transaction 
that was blocked because the online form auto-filled an old address. But I think that 
was likely in the billing address section rather than delivery. But even if it wasnt, that 
a transaction was stopped then, doesnt mean that all other transactions should be.
Halifax has refunded the fraudulent transaction promptly and backdated that refund 
to the day of the transaction. That means Mr M hasnt lost out financially as a result 
of the fraud. Whether or not Halifax decides to pursue the perpetrator is a matter for 
its commercial judgement and not something Id expect it to make customers privy to. 
It is of course open to Mr M to report this matter to the police himself. Whether the 
police take the matter forward is a matter for them.  
As the transaction was reimbursed within a matter of days, it is unlikely to have 
formed any part of Mr Ms credit history; and he hasnt provided any persuasive 
evidence it has. 
I understand Mr M feels strongly about his complaint. And I acknowledge his request for 
compensation. But Im not persuaded Halifax has done anything wrong and so I wont be 
upholding his complaint or making any award.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman