DRN-2659000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the interest rate payable on their mortgage with Nationwide 
Building Society. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an existing mortgage with Nationwide. In 2019 they applied, through a 
third-party broker, to port this mortgage to a different property and to take additional 
borrowing. The purchase of the new property was also supported by help to buy funding.
In November 2019 Nationwide issued a mortgage offer. This confirmed the existing 
borrowing, that was to be ported, would continue on the existing interest rates. It also 
confirmed that the new borrowing would be on a five-year fixed rate of 2.04% per annum.
Around February 2020, before the mortgage was taken out, Mr and Mrs M and their broker 
contacted Nationwide to discuss the interest rate and see if a better rate was available  as 
theyd seen an alternative lower rate being advertised for new mortgage customers. 
Nationwide said that the rates advertised were available to all customers  and that the help 
to buy finance didnt impact this. This statement was incorrect.
In August 2020 Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage, at the rate that was set out in the 
mortgage offer. They complained to Nationwide however that theyd been told that better 
rates shouldve been available to them. So, they felt Nationwide should honour what had 
been said and change the rate payable on their mortgage.
Nationwide acknowledged theyd been given incorrect information  as the interest rates 
available to help to buy customers were different to standard residential mortgages. In 
recognition of the upset caused by this incorrect information it offered £25. But it said the 
rate applied to their mortgage was correct and was in line with what theyd applied for and 
the rates available to other help to buy customers.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs M asked our service to consider their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into matters but didnt think Nationwide needed to do 
anything further. He said it wasnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs M had been given incorrect 
information. But he didnt think this had caused them to be in a position they wouldnt always 
have been in. This was because the interest rate being charged on their mortgage was 
correct based on the application made and they werent ever entitled to a different rate.
Mr and Mrs M did not agree with the investigators opinion. They said if they hadnt been 
given incorrect information, theyd have applied for a two-year fixed interest rate instead.
Our investigator noted that the mortgage offer included the right interest rate and theyd had 
the option of applying for a shorter fixed term via their broker but there was nothing to 
indicate this had been done.
Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed. As a result, it has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has said the interest rates it offers to customers using help to buy financing to 
purchase a property are different to those available to customers not using another source of 
funding to assist with the purchase. It has said this is because it considers the risk levels to it 
to be different. The interest rates a business offers are a matter of its commercial discretion 
and not something that we can interfere with.
Mr and Mrs M applied, through a broker, for a five-year fixed rate of interest. The application 
confirmed they were using help to buy funding. Nationwide has shown there were a couple 
of interest rates available to them, the difference being due to a product fee. The rate that 
they applied for was the 2.04% fixed rate. This is the rate that was confirmed in the 
mortgage offer and ultimately applied to the mortgage taken out. So, the interest rate being 
applied to their mortgage appears to be correct  as it is what was applied for and what was 
available to them. 
I can see that, after the mortgage offer was issued, they asked Nationwide if theyd be 
eligible for different, lower rates. And it isnt in dispute that Nationwide gave incorrect 
information about this  by indicating they were eligible for non-help to buy interest rates. So, 
Ive thought about what the fair way to address the incorrect information being provided by 
Nationwide is.
The information Ive seen indicates that, as help to buy applicants, the rates made available 
to Mr and Mrs M were correct for their circumstances. And no revised mortgage offer was 
issued indicating they could take a different rate. So, while incorrect information was 
provided, I dont think Nationwide is required because of this to allow them to have an 
interest rate that they were never entitled to.
Mr and Mrs M have said that, if theyd known they couldnt get a lower five-year fixed rate, 
theyd have instead applied for a two-year fixed. But because they didnt find this out until 
after theyd taken their mortgage, they cant now do that. But Im not sure I agree. 
As Ive said, they applied through their broker for a five-year fixed interest rate, with a 
mortgage offer issued in November 2019. This confirmed that the interest rate would be 
2.04% per annum. There is nothing to suggest that a two-year rate was ever requested from 
Nationwide. The incorrect information Nationwide provided to them was given in February 
2020. But they didnt take their mortgage until August 2020. Ive seen no evidence of a 
formal request or further application for an alternative product. And, as Ive said, there was 
no revised mortgage offer made, to them or the broker, so I think they wouldve known the 
interest rate that was going to apply to their mortgage  and that this had not been changed 
to a lower rate. If theyd been unhappy with this rate, they were under no obligation to 
proceed. And an application for a two-year fixed rate couldve been submitted at any time. 
So, Im satisfied, when they went ahead, Mr and Mrs M were aware of the rate that would 
apply to their mortgage and therefore that lower rates were not available. And had they 
wanted to instead apply for a two-year fixed rate they couldve done so - but I cant see any 
evidence they chose to. So, on balance I dont think this was something they were 
considering. And as a result, I dont think the incorrect information has caused them to be in 
a position they wouldnt otherwise have been in.
I dont doubt however that it was frustrating for them to find that the information given to 
them by Nationwide was wrong  and that their hopes mayve been raised that they mayve been able to obtain a lower interest rate. But, given I think they were aware this wasnt the 
case before proceeding, I think the offer of £25 made by Nationwide for the upset caused is 
fair. So, I dont intend to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint as I think the offer already made 
by Nationwide Building Society is a fair way to resolve matters.
If it hasnt already done so, Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs M the £25 it 
previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman