DRN-2142745
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined his claim under his personal 
possessions insurance for damage to his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr W had kit and personal possessions insurance, including cover for his mobile phone. He 
damaged his phone accidentally when he tripped and dropped it from the upper storey of a 
car park to the path below. He made a claim to Ageas which appointed its electrical supplier 
to provide an opinion. The report concluded that the damage was from more sustained 
pressure rather than a single drop incident, regardless of how far it fell. Ageas declined the 
claim because the damage was more consistent with damage caused by twisting the phone.
Mr W says it took seven weeks for Ageas to return his phone and for most of that time he 
wasnt sure whether it was going to repair or replace it. Ageas says its engineers tried to 
deliver the phone back to Mr W three times unsuccessfully. Mr W didnt think that was the 
case.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold in part 
Mr Ws complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
The photos show significant damage to Mr Ws phone. In particular, the back casing and 
front screen are shattered. There is also a crack running across the middle of both front and 
back. Theres no evidence of significant damage to the edge or corners shown on the 
photos. I appreciate that Mr W says his protective case prevented the edges and corners 
from being damaged and I dont have any reason to doubt that. So Ive focused on the front 
and back damage to decide whether it was reasonable for Ageas to accept the electrical 
experts opinion.
The electrical expert says the damage is more consistent with sustained pressure and goes 
as far as saying it looks deliberate. While the shattered screen and back casing alone dont 
necessarily indicate a deliberate act, I can understand why the crack running across the 
middle might. The report says that the phone casing is bent and the crack is more consistent 
with ongoing pressure rather than being dropped. In the absence of any other expert opinion 
I think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on what its electrical supplier reported.
Ive noted that Ageas has offered to reconsider the claim if Mr W obtains a different expert 
opinion. I think thats fair and he should contact Ageas directly if he wishes to do so.
Finally, Ive looked at the sequence of events to see whether Ageas dealt with the claim in a 
reasonable timeframe. Mr W says it collected the phone promptly and I can see that its 
electrical experts reached a decision to decline the claim within three weeks. Mr W called 
Ageas six weeks after making his claim to ask for an update. Ageas told him the claim was 
declined. 
The contact notes arent clear on this, but Ageas has confirmed that Mr W wasnt aware of 
the outcome of his claim until he called it after six weeks had passed. At that point Ageas 
had been aware of the decision to decline it for three weeks. I dont think its reasonable to 
have waited until Mr W got in touch to let him know his claim was declined. I think he could 
reasonably have expected proactive contact from Ageas and a prompt response so he could 
decide on his next steps for replacing his phone.
Three weeks later, Mr W called again to ask why his phone hadnt been returned. Ageas 
said its electrical supplier had made three delivery attempts. A week after his call Mr W 
received his phone.
The contact notes dont reference three attempts to deliver Mr Ws phone. Ageas attempted 
to return his phone the day after it told him it had declined the claim. The security gate 
refused delivery so its unlikely Mr W wouldve been aware of that attempt. Mr W called 
Ageas three weeks later to ask why his phone hadnt been returned to him and the records 
show that his phone was to be traced and delivered. Ageas confirmed that the second 
delivery attempt, a week later and to Mr Ws home address, was successful. 
So, there was one failed delivery attempt with no indication that a further attempt was going 
to be made until Mr W contacted Ageas again. 
In summary, I dont think Mr W shouldve had to chase action at each step, causing 
uncertainty and delays in next steps for replacing his phone. And, while its likely that there 
was little Mr W couldve done with his broken phone even if Ageas had returned it sooner, it 
was, nevertheless, his phone and he could reasonably have expected it back. Considering 
the service shortfalls identified here, I think a payment of £50 is warranted.
I said I was intending to:
uphold in part the complaint and I am minded to require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
W £50 by way of apology for the delays in handling his claim and confirming the outcome.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Ageas responded to say it accepted the findings in respect of the delays in returning Mr Ws 
phone.
Mr W responded to say that he accepted the decision as he felt it was a fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr W and Ageas accepted my provisional findings, so I see no reason to change the 
outcome. My final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Mr Ws 
complaint.Ageas Insurance Limited must pay Mr W £50 by way of apology for the delays in handling 
his claim and confirming the outcome.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman