DRN-3770173
The complaint
Mr W complains that system failings of Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) delayed the 
execution and cancellation of orders and that Trading 212 caused him losses by executing a 
market-sell order for shares he didnt own and then executing a buy order to reverse this 
short-selling at a price he says caused significant loss. He seeks redress for this loss.
What happened
Trading 212 has said that on a day in June 2021 there was a delay in the reporting and 
execution of sell orders. It says this was due to a service disruption experienced at the 
intermediary that executes Trading 212s orders.
Trading 212 says this issue affected a stop-loss order Mr W had in place for 3120 shares set 
at $17 a share. Trading 212s app didnt show Mr Ws stop-loss as having been executed 
and his shares sold when the share price fell below the stop loss level. Instead it continued 
to show the shares as being held by Mr W and his account as continuing to fall or rise in 
value in line with falls or rises in the share price.
During that time, Mr W submitted a request to cancel his stop-loss order. He also entered a 
market-sell order for the 3120 shares. But Trading 212s system continued to show the 
shares as being held by Mr W and his account as continuing to fluctuate in value in line with 
changes in the share price.
During this time Trading 212 says it placed an alert on its platform as soon as it established 
there was an issue with its intermediary. Mr W also contacted Trading 212 on its online chat 
facility. Mr W said his order wasnt processing and Trading 212 told him it was aware of the 
delay in order cancellation. Around ten minutes later Trading 212 told him: The orders will 
be cancelled and you will be able to place a new one. Around 30 minutes later, according to 
the chat record, Mr W saw his account update to show the transactions that had taken place. 
Mr W says this was an hour after the shares fell below his stop-loss and he had been unable 
to do anything during that time. Shortly afterwards Mr W asked Trading 212 to look into the 
result and compensate him.
That result was that 3120 shares had been sold for Mr W as a result of his stop-loss order,  
which Mr W says sold for $16.99 per share, and a sale for 3120 shares was made for him, 
which Mr W says was for $16.61 per share, as a result of his market- sell order. Mr W didnt 
own the shares needed for his market-sell order because his stop-loss order had already 
sold the 3120 shares he owned, so Trading 212 also created and executed for Mr W an 
order to buy 3120 shares. Mr W says this buy order was executed at $21.87 per share.
The trades Mr W says Trading 212 shouldnt have carried out were the sale of 3120 shares 
he no longer owned at $16.61 per share and then the purchase at $21.87 per share of 3120 
shares to make up the 3120 shares Trading 212 had sold that Mr W didnt own. The result of 
those trades on the day itself was a loss of £11536 plus currency conversion costs of £127.
Mr Ws view is Trading 212 shouldnt have accepted his market-sell order when its effect 
would be to sell shares he didnt own, given he wasnt permitted to do this. So he thinks it 
isnt fair for him to have to bear the losses resulting from such an order. Those losses 
crystallised when the buy order Trading 212 initiated was executed to correct the position.
Mr W has said that, prior to the incident here, his experience was that it wasnt possible to 
sell more shares than he owned. His position is that the risks he agreed to take when 
accepting Trading 212's terms and its provisions - including its exclusion clauses relating to 
the fact that it wouldnt be able to provide a service that would always be working or without 
error - didn't in his view include a risk of Trading 212 selling shares he didnt own. 
Our investigators agreed this wasn't a risk of the kind Mr W was aware he was running when 
using Trading 212's service. They didn't think that when Mr W agreed to Trading 212s 
terms, it was in his reasonable contemplation that Trading 212s disclaimers relating to 
technical errors could cover a situation in which Trading 212 accepted an order from him to 
sell shares he didnt own. They didnt think the disclaimers in Trading 212s terms covered 
this situation adequately enough for it to be fair for Mr W to bear the liability rather than 
Trading 212. They thought Trading 212 should've had measures in place to protect Mr W 
from this sort of thing happening and they didnt think it fair that he should bear the losses.
Our investigators thought it noteworthy that when Mr W placed his market-sell order, he had 
tried to cancel his stop loss order and it wasnt clear - to him or Trading 212 at the time - 
whether the technical error being experienced would mean his pending orders would be 
executed but reported with a delay or executed but after a delay or not executed at all. 
Trading 212 didnt agree with our investigators proposed outcome. It has said, in brief 
summary: 
When accepting Trading 212's terms, Mr W might not have reasonably contemplated 
that the technical error clause could cover a scenario where he was able to sell shares 
he didn't own. But that logic if extended would undermine the whole basis of the contract 
as other terms could be countered because a client might have misunderstood or simply 
not contemplated a particular scenario arising, which would clearly be unreasonable. 
Mr W accepted Trading 212s terms, including the "technical error" clause. If that clause 
intended to exclude only particular errors or scenarios, it wouldve listed them. It didnt 
have a list which clearly means it applies to any technical error.  A view that the clause 
doesnt cover the situation here because it was not the kind of risk Mr W was aware he 
was running, undermines the clause and is like expecting every client to foresee every 
potential technical error which might occur, which clearly is an unreasonable assumption.
Mr Ws previous experience was the system wouldnt allow him to sell shares he didnt 
own, which is correct, but the present scenario was entirely different because Mr W's 
orders had not been filled, were pending and not confirmed as completed. 
Trading 212 fully agrees it should have measures in place to prevent the sort of thing 
that happened in this case  and ordinarily it wasnt possible to short-sell, as Mr Ws 
experience confirms. But there was a technical error and the status of Mr Ws attempted 
trades was unclear, so the prudent stance for Mr W to have taken wouldve been to await 
confirmation of the position and completion of the orders/instructions.
Mr Ws attempt to cancel his stop loss order meant it wasn't clear whether that order 
would be executed but reported with a delay, executed after a delay or not executed at 
all. While the technical issue was being investigated it was too uncertain for Mr W to 
assume his trade had not been filled (or cancelled). In those circumstances, attempting 
to duplicate the trade carried the potential for short-selling to occur. Term 10.16 explicitly says short-selling is not permitted, even if it doesnt explain what 
will happen if an instruction for short-selling can be given and is then carried out.
Term 10.15 says "Market conditions can cause temporary delays to the execution of 
Orders". Trading 212 knows the situation here wasnt caused by "Market conditions", but 
it didnt know this at the time and, more importantly, neither did Mr W. Market conditions 
are stated as a possible cause for a temporary delay, but the intention is clear and it is 
not unreasonable to expect a client to take note of the wording which follows as it makes 
it abundantly clear that "It is the client's obligation to make sure that any earlier pending 
Order/s is/are cancelled before placing a new Order in the same Investment." The term 
clearly places the responsibility on clients to ensure any pending orders are cancelled 
before placing a new order.
The ombudsman acknowledged that term 10.15 appears intended to hold a customer to 
an order which, in its full reading, has similarities with the events relating to Mr W - 
although not being entirely the same. 
The terms and conditions explain the situations in which Trading 212 doesnt accept 
responsibility for client losses. They set out the basis of the contract, are explicit, are not 
flawed or unclear and where wider explanation is not provided it follows that they are 
intended to apply literally. The more detailed terms are, the less likely people are to read 
them all. It is unreasonable to not to be persuaded that the terms relating to third party 
errors and technical faults make it fair for Mr W to bear the losses that arose.
In summary, Mr W accepted that there could be technical errors with the system and that 
Trading 212 said it would not be held liable in such situations, whether due solely or 
partly to a third party. He accepted there was an obligation to make sure earlier pending 
orders were cancelled before new ones were placed and that short-selling was not 
permitted. A technical error occurred, so to determine that Trading 212 cannot seek to 
rely on these clauses in this particular instance because Mr W might not have foreseen 
this exact technical error or the risk posed by it, would be unreasonable.
For reference, terms in the agreement Trading 212 has referred to include the following (but 
I have considered all of the terms):
6.4: in the event of downtime of the Trading Platform You shall waive any claims 
against Trading 212 of missed profits and/or claims that You would have executed an 
order on a specific price during the downtime. You acknowledge that sometimes there 
may be technical issues or faults with the Trading Platform.
10.15: Market conditions can cause temporary delays to the execution of Orders. It is 
the clients obligation to make sure that any earlier pending Order(s) is/are cancelled 
before placing a new Order in the same Investment. We do not accept any liability for 
any actual or potential loss you may suffer if this occurs.
10.16: You are not permitted to Short Sell. This means that you cannot give us an 
Instruction to sell an Investment that you do not own at the time of the sale and that is 
not held on your account, whether settled or unsettled at the time of sale.
25: 25.1. we shall incur no liability whatsoever for any partial or full default of our 
obligations by reason of any cause or event beyond our reasonable control, including but 
not limited to any communications, systems or computer failure and we shall not be 
held liable for any loss you may incur as a result. In addition the above shall 
include any material change in economic conditions or any other event, that is beyond 
the reasonable control and whose effects could not be avoided by reasonable measure. 25.2. [this] shall include the failure of any of our suppliers, and if applicable our 
intermediate broker, agent or principal, dealer for any reason, to perform its 
obligations
Despite all this, Trading 212 said it would pay Mr W £1111 - which it said was the exact 
amount of the negative result of the short position itself. In essence I understand this is the 
extra Mr W wouldve got if his market-sell order is adjusted to the prices his stop-loss order 
got. Trading 212 has explained that it made this offer because it couldnt locate relevant 
evidence for one of the pending orders involved and so it wasnt sure whether issues with 
that order were due to the issue experienced at the time with its broker or if it is something 
else. It also told us it thought £300 for distress, suggested by the investigators, was too high 
but it agreed to pay it anyway. Trading 212 has already paid these sums to Mr W.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Trading 212s redress payment. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, it is one on which I must make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same outcome as our investigators for broadly the same 
reasons. 
In brief, I think it fair and reasonable that Trading 212 compensates Mr W for the loss that 
arose when it facilitated on his account the sale of shares he didnt own and then corrected 
this by buying shares on his account. Ive explained my reasons briefly below.
Ive carefully considered whether Trading 212 ought to have accepted Mr Ws market-sell 
order which resulted, due to the execution of the earlier stop-loss order, in the sale of shares 
Mr W didnt own. It isnt disputed that such a sale of such shares (and without Mr W having 
borrowed them or taken any steps to do so) was a sale that wasnt permitted. The account 
terms didnt permit short-selling, and so wouldnt have permitted the sale even if Mr W had 
borrowed the shares being sold. I also note Mr Ws past experience was that Trading 212 
didnt accept orders whose effect would be to sell shares he didnt own. Trading 212 agrees 
this was the position. So Trading 212 wouldnt usually have accepted or otherwise facilitated 
Mr Ws market-sell order. My view is Trading 212 shouldnt have done so here either.
The market-sell order led to the buy order that corrected the share shortfall and to the loss 
Mr W now complains of. In deciding whether it is fair and reasonable for Trading 212 to 
compensate him for that loss, Ive considered Trading 212s terms and in particular those 
explaining how Trading 212 wouldnt be liable to Mr W for losses arising from failings in its 
service to him, including failures to provide that service and technical errors.
There are terms in Mr Ws agreement with Trading 212 that make clear that once an order is 
accepted by Trading 212 the scope to change it will be very limited indeed. For present 
purposes I accept this was the case, so Ive not detailed those terms above. Also Ive not 
detailed the terms in the agreement that limit or exclude liability where Trading 212 decides 
not to accept an order - because Trading 212 did accept the order complained of here. 
Further above I detailed terms that did explicitly seek to exempt Trading 212 from liability for 
losses. I note that these refer to losses suffered if market conditions cause delays and to a 
waiver of claims where particular transactions cant be made due to the system being down 
and, lastly, to losses arising from matters outside of Trading 212s reasonable control. In 
Mr Ws case there were delays - to either the execution of orders or the reporting of them or both - but this wasnt due to market conditions. Also in Mr Ws case there was a technical 
issue that affected the availability, or at least the proper functioning, of Trading 212s system 
for a time, but Mr Ws claim isnt about transactions this prevented him from being able to 
carry out  it is about transactions that were carried out that he doesnt think shouldve been. 
Trading 212 suggests terms about delays caused by market conditions, given what they also 
say about Mr Ws responsibility for cancelling and so not duplicating orders, ought to apply to 
Mr Ws situation even though it wasnt one caused by market conditions - and that this was 
the clear intention of those terms. 
I agree Mr W didnt follow the stipulation in those terms to ensure his stop-loss order was 
cancelled before placing his market-sell order. But it still seems to me that Trading 212s 
suggestion, that those terms be extended to cover Mr Ws situation, is an invitation to extend 
those terms rather than to apply them strictly. I dont believe that would be the right approach 
to these sorts of terms, bearing in mind their nature. Im not persuaded this would be fair and 
reasonable either - bearing in mind the transaction that caused loss wasnt, at least 
according to Mr Ws experience or what Trading 212 has said should and usually wouldve 
taken place or what was permitted, a possible outcome of the failing detailed in those terms. 
Also, a distinction can of course be drawn between market conditions, which are part and 
parcel of any market transaction, and system errors, which are not.
It is apparent that the delay to the execution or reporting of Mr Ws orders did deny him the 
chance to reinvest the sale proceeds for a time  but I note Mr W hasnt asked for redress 
for that. In my view such a claim would be covered by the terms above that exclude liability 
where particular transactions cant be carried out during a period when the system is down, 
so Mr W was in my view right not to seek to claim for this. 
Turning to whether the losses were outside Trading 212s reasonable control, I do accept 
Trading 212 couldnt reasonably control the problems at its intermediary. Also its clear Mr W 
wouldnt have placed a request to cancel his stop-loss order or placed his market-sell order if 
it hadnt been for the problem at the intermediary that delayed the execution and/or reporting 
of his stop-loss order. If his stop-loss order had been executed and reported in the usual 
way, hed have had no reason to try to cancel it or to try to sell his shares in a different way. 
To that extent Mr Ws losses are linked to the problems at Trading 212s intermediary. But 
these problems werent bound to lead to the loss Mr W complains of. The loss still wouldnt 
have happened if Trading 212 hadnt accepted and facilitated Mr Ws market-sell order. Our 
investigator made this point and we have invited Trading 212 to respond a number of times 
since. On balance what Trading 212 has sent us doesnt make me think its acceptance and 
facilitation of Mr Ws market-sell order and its failure to prevent the sale of more shares than 
he owned, was a direct and inevitable result of the technical fault at its intermediary. Indeed 
to my mind what Trading 212 has sent us doesnt say or show that the technical problems at 
its intermediary directly or inevitably left Trading 212 unable to stop Mr Ws market-sell order 
or the sale for him of more shares than he owned. 
I note also the uncertainty expressed by Trading 212 as to whether one of the orders at the 
time was actually impacted by the issue experienced at the time at its intermediary or if it 
is something else. This uncertainty doesnt lend itself to the conclusion that what occurred 
was a direct result of or purely because of the problems at Trading 212s intermediary. 
I note what Trading 212 has said about missing records. I dont overlook that it might usually 
have been able to send us more about a situation like this. But I must decide the complaint 
based on the information that has been made available and presented by the parties.I note also that Trading 212 has said the situation here was totally different to those in 
Mr Ws past, because his orders here had not been filled, were pending and not confirmed 
as completed. I accept the situation may have been different and its intermediarys problems 
may have been an important part of that difference. But I dont see that this shows that these 
problems were bound to lead directly to Trading 212 accepting and allowing an order to sell 
more shares than Mr W owned or the failure of its usual approach to stopping such orders.
Even if the third-party error contributed in some way to Trading 212s acceptance of Mr Ws 
market sell order, it doesnt follow that it contributed in a way that makes it fair to regard the 
result, and the sale of shares Mr W didnt own, as outside Trading 212s reasonable control. 
Or that Trading 212 shouldnt still have been able to stop the acceptance and execution of 
the order like it normally would have. In short it doesnt follow that this wouldnt be more 
properly viewed as a fault on Trading 212s part rather than the result of third-party error. On 
balance, in light of all Ive said above, I find the loss wasnt caused by the third-party error 
and didnt arise from a matter outside Trading 212s reasonable control.
That said, Ive considered what Trading 212 has said about Mr Ws actions and whether, in 
light of what is said in the terms and the warnings contained there, these mean it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable for Trading 212 to compensate him for his loss in all the circumstances. 
Mr Ws order led to the sale of shares he didnt own, but he didnt intend this or realise this 
was a possible outcome of the orders he had placed (and ordinarily it wouldnt have been). 
There is clear evidence of this in the online chat records available from before the outcome 
of the orders was known. This isnt why Ive found Trading 212 at fault or why Ive reached 
the other conclusions Ive reached above, but it is a reason why I havent come to a different 
outcome in the face of those findings. If Mr W had been aware his actions might lead to the 
sale of shares he didnt own, then my view on his complaint might well have been different.
The terms of Mr Ws agreement with Trading 212 made clear it was for him to cancel the 
existing order if a new order were taking its place. Mr W didnt do this. If he had held enough 
shares to satisfy both orders and both had been executed, it seems to me Mr W would have 
had no grounds to object and this wouldve been covered by the terms Ive outlined above. 
That Mr W was running a risk of both orders being executed even though he didnt own 
enough shares for both, is apparent from the fact that this did happen. But he didnt foresee 
this and I dont think he is at fault for not doing so or that he ought reasonably to have 
anticipated he would be running this risk  given short selling wasnt permitted and all Ive 
said above about his previous experiences of this and Trading 212s normal practice.
I bear in mind that if Mr Ws stop-loss order had failed due to a system error, not placing his 
market-sell order when he did wouldve left him exposed for longer to potentially negative 
price movements from which he might otherwise have been protected  and the terms would 
not have given him any recourse against Trading 212 for this. So I dont agree that this was 
obviously a more prudent course for Mr W to have taken. So even with the account terms in 
mind, I dont see that Mr W ought to have known that the best course was to rely on an order 
that appeared to have failed, rather than placing a new one. The fact Trading 212 speculated 
at the time - in its chat exchanges  incorrectly that Mr W might be able to cancel and place 
a new order once the issue was resolved, in my view reinforces that it was not at all obvious 
what had happened or what Mr W should have been doing about it at the time. So I accept 
the status of Mr Ws attempted trades was unclear, like Trading 212 says. But I dont agree 
that in the circumstances the only prudent course was to await confirmation of the position 
and completion of the orders or instructions.
I agree that had Mr W taken a course of action that was plainly unreasonable in all the 
circumstances, that would be a relevant consideration and might affect the outcome here - 
but Im not persuaded Mr W did act unreasonably.In conclusion Mr Ws loss arose after Trading 212 allowed and enabled a transaction it 
shouldnt have accepted. Also, there was no good reason to accept or facilitate an order 
whose result would be the sale of shares Mr W didnt own  particularly given he wasnt 
borrowing the shares either. The terms of Mr Ws agreement with Trading 212 dont in my 
view exempt Trading 212 from liability for the losses Mr W suffered as a result  nor would it 
be fair and reasonable in my view to exempt Trading 212 in the way it has suggested. 
So for the reasons Ive given and to the extent Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive 
told the parties that records Ive seen show a £11663 loss on the day of the trades (£11536 
being the difference between the market-sell and the buy trades plus currency conversion 
costs of £127). Neither party has sent anything to dispute this or to suggest a different figure.
Id add that I dont agree that if a particular exclusion clause doesnt validly cover a particular 
situation  whether contemplated by the parties at the time the contract was made or not - 
this undermines the whole basis of the contractual relationship. But Id add that looking at 
the contractual relationship as a whole, and in the context of what Ive said above about the 
terms Ive discussed, I dont agree that it would be fair to construe and apply the exclusions 
and exemptions to the present situation in the way Trading 212 has suggested. And I do 
think that the fact such a construction was not in my view contemplated by the parties at the 
outset is a consideration relevant to that conclusion but, as Ive discussed above, it isnt the 
only consideration or reason for it. 
The live chat records Trading 212 has sent show Mr W suffered distress. My award here 
takes no account of the distress suffered by Mr W during the delay to his orders, as this was 
due to a technical problem for which Trading 212 wasnt at fault. Problems of that kind were 
ones Mr W had to be willing to tolerate, given what the terms said about technical problems 
outside Trading 212s control. In its chat exchanges Trading 212 tried to provide Mr W with 
as much support as it could during the delay, as noted by at least one of our investigators. 
But I share our investigators view that Mr W did suffer distress due to Trading 212s error 
once he became aware of the result of his orders. The financial result was no doubt more 
distressing because it arose from an outcome Mr W hadnt thought possible until it occurred. 
So I share the view that an award for distress and inconvenience is appropriate and in all the 
circumstances I reach the view on balance that £300 is fair and reasonable redress for this. 
So, in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Putting things right
Trading 212 UK Limited should pay Mr W £11663 plus simple interest on this sum at the rate 
of 8% per year from the date this loss first arose in June 2021 until the date of this decision. 
Any amount already paid by Trading 212 UK Limited as redress for this complaint may be 
deducted by Trading 212 UK Limited from the total due as and when that amount was paid.
Trading 212 UK Limited should also pay Mr W £300 for distress caused to him by the failings 
Ive outlined. Trading 212 has already paid Mr W this, so it doesnt need to do more for this.
If Trading 212 UK Limited pays my award to Mr W later than one month after it receives from 
us notice of Mr Ws acceptance of my award, Trading 212 UK Limited should also pay Mr W 
simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on my award from the date of my decision until the 
date Trading 212 UK Limited pays my award. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Trading 212 UK Limited must put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman