DRN-3517047
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited (Sabre) charged too much when 
adding a named driver to his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P says his policy went live in July 2020. He says Sabre offers cover for young drivers and 
he wanted to include his daughter on his policy. He says during the first year of the policy he 
was able to add and remove her for short periods by paying an additional premium. 
Mr P says at renewal he was offered two quotes one providing cover for him and his wife. 
The other included his daughter. He says he went with the first quote as his daughter was 
away for parts of the year and she didnt require cover during these periods. Mr Ps 
understanding was he could add his daughter as a named driver online as and when this 
was required. 
In August 2021 Mr P added his daughter to his policy. An additional premium of £611.15 was 
charged on top of the £173.59 premium he had paid to cover him and his wife. He says he 
thought this was expensive but paid this amount as his daughter needed to drive. 
At the beginning of September his wife went online to remove the named driver from the 
policy. This didnt work  so the change was processed over the phone. Mr P says a refund 
for £488.53 was provided, which meant the named driver cover cost £123 for around 18 
days.
Mr P didnt think this was correct as it was a lot more than he had paid for cover previously. 
Sabre says it calculated the additional premium correctly when the named driver was added, 
and when the named driver was removed. It says the instructions it received were to 
permanently add the named driver and then permanently remove. This is what it did. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Sabre had shown that it increased the premium in 
line with what it would charge anyone else in the same circumstances. Mr P didnt agree with 
this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr P has another complaint regarding the involvement of his insurance broker in this matter. 
My role here is to consider whether Sabre treated Mr P fairly based on the instructions it 
received. For clarity, I wont be considering any issues relating to the involvement of his 
broker.
Sabre says Mr Ps policy was renewed in July 2021, which provided cover for him and his 
wife. It says a mid-term adjustment was made in August 2021. This was to add a named 
driver permanently to his policy. A further mid-term change was made in September to 
permanently remove the named driver from the policy. It explains that these adjustments 
were made as permanent changes and not temporary adjustments as Mr P mentions in his 
complaint. 
I can understand why Mr P was concerned with the premium refund he received as this was 
significantly more expensive for the period his daughter was covered, than arranged in 
previous years. 
Sabre has told us the main issue here relates to the named driver being added permanently 
as opposed to a temporary change to the policy. We asked it if temporary cover can be 
added for a named driver. Sabre confirmed it can do this, but it isnt responsible for the 
instructions it received. It maintains it processed this correctly as a permanent addition and 
then removal of the named driver. 
The issues around why Sabre received instructions to make permanent changes to the 
policy are considered in Mr Ps other complaint. But I have considered whether Sabre 
treated him fairly when calculating the additional premium and the refund it provided. 
Sabre has supplied its underwriting information to show how it calculated Mr Ps original 
premium, the permanent addition of the named driver and the subsequent removal. 
How an insurer assesses risk and calculates its premiums, is a decision for it to make. Were 
not the regulator and cant tell an insurer what it must charge. I cant share Sabres 
underwriting information with Mr P, as this is commercially sensitive. But from the 
information it provided it followed its underwriting criteria as it would be expected to. I cant 
see that it treated Mr P any differently from any other customer. So, I cant reasonably say 
that it behaved unfairly in the additional premium it charged and the refund it provided. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps reference to paying far less for the temporary cover his daughter 
received on previous occasions. I dont dispute what he says. But from what I have seen 
Sabre processed the instructions it received correctly following its underwriting criteria. 
Because of this I dont think it treated Mr P unfairly so I cant reasonably ask Sabre to do 
anything more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman