DRN-2079384
The complaint
Mr S says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2000 Mr S took out a Halifax mortgage along with PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr S disagrees. 
Mr S mainly says that he didnt know Halifax was going to include PPI with his mortgage and 
he didnt know he had it. Mr S said PPI wasnt something he needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. But 
that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. 
Mr S told us he took out the PPI during a meeting so I think its likely thats what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr S has told us about the way he says Halifax sold him 
the PPI. But what Mr S says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr S to recall exactly what was discussed at the time.
I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr Ss home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, 
I can see why Mr S mightve felt PPI was useful to have.
I can completely understand why he mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. 
But, on balance, I think its likely that Mr S decided he wanted to have the benefits and 
security that PPI offered and he chose to buy the policy. 
Halifax looked at his complaint on the basis that it wouldve advised Mr S to take out PPI. 
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Halifax sold Mr S the PPI, I think this is the fairest 
way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business 
makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information 
in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is 
suitable. 
Mr S was eligible for the PPI. 
The policy wouldve paid out in full for up to 24 months per claim in the event of an accident 
or illness that prevented Mr S from working. The policy wouldve paid out on top of work 
benefits and for a guaranteed period significantly longer than Mr S couldve relied on getting 
sick pay through work. Bearing in mind that Mr S mightve also had some additional costs if 
he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit 
at whats likely to have been a difficult time  especially if he went down to half pay only after 
6 months off sick.   
The policy also paid out for up to 24 months for any one claim if Mr S lost his job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed. 
And Mr S couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term protection for 
his mortgage.
Ive taken into account that Mr S had some savings at the time. But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim. And the policy paid 
out for longer than its likely the amount of savings hes mentioned would've lasted if hed 
had to rely on these to cover outgoings when he was unable to work.  
Having PPI meant Mr S could be sure hed always be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect his home. So, looking at Mr Ss circumstances at the time, 
I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr  S about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if he was affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr S when he bought the policy. But, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums at the time. And he 
couldve cancelled the policy at any time at no additional cost if his circumstances changed 
or he no longer wanted to pay to keep PPI. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a 
different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think hed still have taken it out. 
So I dont find that Mr S has lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong. This means it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionFor these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman