Complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr W had a PPI policy on his credit card in 2000. The first recorded charge for the PPI was 
in May 2000, then a few days later he cancelled the policy and the charge was refunded.
Lloyds agreed the policy may have been mis-sold, but said there was nothing left to refund. 
I sent Mr W and Lloyds a provisional decision on 13 May 2020, to explain why I didnt think 
Lloyds needed to refund anything further. In that decision, I said:
Lloyds have Mr Ws credit card statements going back to January 2000. This is a 
considerable length of time, not least given that businesses commonly dispose of such data 
after around six years or so.
According to the statements, Mr W was first charged for PPI on 3 May 2000, for £4.88. He 
then cancelled the policy, and the £4.88 was refunded to the card on 9 May 2000. There 
were no further charges for PPI.
The available statements show that Mr W didnt pay anything for PPI between January and 
April 2000. And theres nothing in Lloyds internal systems that indicates Mr W had a policy 
or paid anything for PPI on this card before May 2000, either.
Up until May 2000, Mr W cleared his balance in full each month. The PPIs cost was based 
on the cards balance, so a zero balance meant a zero cost. So by clearing his card in full 
each month, Mr W would not have incurred any PPI charges. This may explain why he might 
not have been charged for PPI prior to May 2000  assuming the policy was even in place 
before then.
Further, Mr W said the policy was added without his knowledge or permission. And it looks 
like he cancelled it as soon as he was charged for it. This would also support it being likely 
that May 2000 was his first PPI charge.
When we find that a policy has been mis-sold, we tell the business to put their customer in 
the financial position theyd be in now if they never had PPI. Based on the available 
evidence, it looks like Lloyds already did that back in 2000  and if thats the case, then 
I dont think theres anything more they need to do now.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 June 2020. But neither Mr W nor Lloyds sent me anything new to consider.
DRN-1912396What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I think Lloyds have already dealt 
with the compensation fairly in this case.
Mr W questioned why Lloyds were able to see all the older statements when working out 
compensation on a different PPI complaint, and I understand why hes asked this.
Im not privy to the statements or calculations involved in that case. But from the final 
response letter Mr W gave us, I can see Lloyds did say that due to the length of time that 
had passed, they no longer held all the relevant records, and had to estimate the start date 
of the policy and the refund due for periods where they didnt have statements. So it doesnt 
look like they had all the statements there either. Further, different sub-businesses may have 
held information for different products in different ways. 
In this particular case, it looks like Mr W was only charged once for PPI, and then had that 
charge refunded. He wasnt charged before that as far as the statements go back. And as 
I said in my provisional decision, given that Mr W says he never wanted PPI, and that he 
seemingly cancelled it at the first instance it was charged, and that theres no evidence of a 
policy existing earlier, and given the way he cleared his card each month, it doesnt seem 
likely that Mr W paid for PPI on this card before the statements start.
So while I appreciate where Mr Ws coming from and why he asked us to look at his case, 
I have not found that Lloyds need to do anything further in this instance.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman