DRN-3878141
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage which, until recently, Mrs and Mr T held 
with Nationwide Building Society. Mrs and Mr T are unhappy with their treatment by 
Nationwide when their fixed rate mortgage deal was due to end. It refused a new two-year 
fixed rate because there was less than two years left on the mortgage term. It also refused to 
extend the term to two years in order to allow a new rate, unless they switched the mortgage 
to capital repayment. Instead, the mortgage went on Nationwides standard variable rate, 
and Mrs and Mr T repaid the mortgage in 2022, when the term expired.
What happened
The investigator wasnt persuaded Nationwide had treated Mrs and Mr T unfairly. 
Mrs and Mr T have asked for an ombudsman to review the case. In December 2022, I 
issued a decision that confirmed that my remit allowed me to consider all of the complaint. 
Nationwide had previously argued that part of the complaint was time-barred under our 
rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr T borrowed money from Nationwide, and under the term of their agreement with 
Nationwide, were due to repay it in August 2022. As a starting point, no one is entitled to 
borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before; theyre not automatically entitled to 
more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. 
But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, 
that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being 
mindful of what mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially 
sensitive and not generally made public. The same broad approach applies to new interest 
rate when an existing deal is finishing. 
The difficulty Mrs and Mr T faced was that their mortgage only had about a year and a half 
left before it was due to be repaid. Meanwhile, the shortest fixed rate deal Nationwide offers 
is two years. Its not alone in that; two years is pretty much universal amongst mortgage 
lenders as being the minimum duration of a fixed rate deal. Its for lenders commercial 
judgement to decide the deals they offer, and not up to me to say Nationwide should offer 
fixed rates with shorter durations than two years. 
Its normal for fixed rate deals to come with an early repayment charge (ERC) in the event 
the mortgage is repaid during the product term. So it wouldnt be right for Nationwide to give 
Mrs and Mr T a new two-year deal knowing theyd be forced to incur an ERC on repaying the 
mortgage when it became due. That invites the question; should Nationwide have agreed to 
extend the mortgage term beyond August 2022 in order to facilitate a two-year fixed rate? 
Its not Nationwides policy to do so; its lending criteria doesnt provide for term extensions 
on interest-only loans. That too is a matter for Nationwides commercial judgement. 
Mrs and Mr T said that having to pay interest at Nationwides standard variable rate instead 
if a new fixed rate meant they had to stop making overpayments to offset the risk of a 
shortfall when the mortgage term ended. I appreciate this was a concern for them, but I also 
note that they were able to repay the mortgage in full and in time. Ive noted what theyve 
said about the impact this had on their normal spending habits, but it was, ultimately, a debt 
that was due
As for the short notice Mrs and Mr T say they were given about the impending expiry of the 
fixed rate deal, I dont think that should have come as a shock or a surprise to them. The 
duration of the fixed rate  and hence the end date  will have been set out in the product 
offer when they took the fixed rate out. Also, a reminder of the fixed rate expiry date was 
included on annual mortgage statements, alongside a reminder of the mortgage end date.
The obligation to treat consumers fairly doesnt simply mean giving them what they want. 
Here, the obstacle for Mrs and Mr T is that to find that Nationwide should have given them 
what they wanted requires me to second guess Nationwides judgment (and impose my own 
judgement in its place) on two elements of its lending policy. In the circumstances, that 
would not be appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
31 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman