DRN-2743476
The complaint
 Miss L is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited wont refund a payment she made.
What happened
In September 2019, Miss L says she responded to an online advert for modelling. She told 
us she was then called by a company Ill call I, and they talked about Miss L having a 
modelling assessment. She says she was then asked to pay a £50 deposit to secure a 
photoshoot. The deposit was to be refunded when she arrived at the studio. This was paid 
using her Starling debit card. 
Miss L then went to the photoshoot. This was hosted by a company Ill call M. Miss L told us 
at the photoshoot she passed an assessment and was told she could have a promising 
modelling career and could be working as a model within weeks. Miss L says that to be able 
to do this, she was then pressured into paying £1,925 for photos, a slot on Ms website, a 
web host name and access to a model manager. 
Miss L signed a purchase agreement/contract with M. This listed the details being purchased 
as: digital images, Z-card, web folio, unique hosting address and Platinum. The agreement 
didnt specify what Platinum entailed. Miss L says she was led to believe she would be 
offered modelling jobs with various well know high street and online brands and get work 
almost immediately. Miss L used her Starling debit card to pay the £1,925 fee. 
Miss L was then contacted by a model manager from I and, a few days later, she told us she 
was persuaded to pay £120 for aftercare to a model management company that was looking 
for models. But soon after, when no work materialised, Miss L became suspicious that she 
may have been scammed. After looking at similar stories online, she then got in touch with 
Starling to ask if it did chargebacks  that is, could she get a refund. She said shed been 
scammed and wanted her £1,975 back  the £50 deposit and the payment of £1,925. This 
was in October 2019. 
But Starling didnt raise a chargeback for Miss L. It told her it wouldnt dispute the 
transactions as the contract shed signed was for a modelling platform, not a modelling 
agency. The bank told Miss L shed need to take the matter up with M or her local 
authorities. 
Following advice from a charity, Miss L then tried to resolve things with M, but it wouldnt 
give her a refund. In the meantime she brought her complaint to our service. In January 
2020 Starling repeated to Miss L that, based on the information in the contract shed signed, 
a chargeback on the grounds she hadnt received the services shed expected wouldnt be 
successful, so it hadnt raised one. The bank told her it had raised a chargeback for the £50 
as this was for a refundable deposit that she hadnt got back. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ls complaint. Briefly, he didnt think Starling had 
done anything wrong when it didnt raise a chargeback. Miss L wasnt happy with this and 
asked for the matter to be reviewed. She repeated that shed been scammed. Miss L said 
the promises made by these companies are never fulfilled and everyone gets the same 
progress report, which isnt possible when everyone is different. 
Another investigator then looked into Miss Ls issues and came to a different view. In 
summary, she said: she would have expected Starling to raise a chargeback when one of its 
customers mentions being scammed or misled and there was strong testimony and evidence 
to support this; Starling ought to have taken a much closer look at the transaction rather than 
just focussing on the agreement signed by Miss L; and, while Miss L had got a refund of the 
£50 deposit, by not attempting a chargeback Starling had denied Miss L the opportunity of 
getting the £1,925 back  so the bank should now refund this amount to Miss L along with 
8% yearly simple interest. 
Starling didnt accept this view. In brief the bank said: there arent chargeback rights for 
scams; Miss L had received everything in the contract so there were no valid grounds to 
raise a chargeback; and the card schemes guidelines dont support verbal agreements. 
So, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision. After looking at all the available 
evidence and arguments, I told Starling I was minded to uphold this complaint, largely for the 
same reasons as our investigator. I said I was also minded to award Miss L £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience shed experienced by the way the bank had dealt with her 
chargeback request. But I wanted to give Staring the opportunity to provide further details 
about the card scheme providers guidelines not supporting verbal statements. 
Starling replied, pointing to a section of the card scheme providers chargeback guidelines. 
The bank stated that acceptable documents to support a chargeback were: cardholder 
email; letter; or message. Starling said Miss L hadnt been able to give it any evidence other 
than her verbal testimony and the guidelines dont state she is solely able to provide this to 
raise a chargeback. The bank also pointed to another complaint which it thought supported 
its position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: should Starling have raised a chargeback request for Miss L?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
I know Starling has pointed to another complaint our service looked at to support its position. 
But I would point out that, while on the surface there may be similarities between complaints, 
important differences wont be apparent. Also, each case is determined by its own individual 
circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of 
Miss Ls complaint and the actions of Starling in dealing with it.
 
A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers, such as Starling, and merchants. These disputes are dealt with under the relevant 
card scheme rules. In certain circumstances, the process provides a way for Starling to ask for a payment made by Miss L to be refunded. These circumstances include where goods or 
services arent supplied or arent as described by the company Miss L paid.
 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company that Miss L paid can defend any 
chargeback claim. When that happens, Starling can pursue it further through the chargeback 
scheme.
 
Theres no obligation on Starling to submit a chargeback or pursue it further if its then 
defended. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the 
right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of success. Also, where the consumer has 
alleged they are the victim of a scam, I think it would be generally good practice to robustly 
pursue the chargeback. Here, Starling didnt attempt a chargeback at all. So, Ive thought 
about whether it acted fairly in not doing so.
 
Starlings main reason for not attempting the chargeback is that the contract Miss L signed 
was with a modelling platform, not an agency. As such, the banks view was that a 
chargeback on the grounds that she didnt receive the services she expected wouldnt be 
successful. Im disappointed Starling responded in this way. Miss L made it clear from the 
outset that she thought shed been the victim of a scam and been pressured into agreeing to 
the contract.
 
Bu rather than supporting Miss L and robustly pursuing a chargeback for her, Starling 
focussed on the narrow confines of the contract shed signed. I think it would have been fair 
and reasonable for the bank to ask Miss L for as much detail as possible about what had 
happened, look at the situation as a whole and then discuss what was needed for a 
chargeback. Instead of this, Starling asked Miss L for only a brief summary of the nature of 
her dispute before telling her to contact the merchant directly or to speak to her local 
authorities.
 
Ive reviewed the relevant card scheme rules. There are a number of different chargeback 
categories or codes that can be used depending on the nature of the dispute. Here it 
seems the most relevant code would be Goods or Services Were Either Not as Described 
or Defective.
 
Each chargeback code has its own set of requirements that need to be met in order for a 
chargeback right to exist and for it to have any prospect of success. At the time these were: 
Miss L engaged in the transaction; she contacted the merchant or attempted to contact the 
merchant to resolve the dispute; and for disputes involving goods, Miss L returned these or 
informed the merchant the goods were available for pick up.
 
I would expect Starling, as the scheme member, to have understood the various 
requirements under the chargeback rules and to have advised Miss L of what she needed to 
provide in order for a chargeback to be attempted. Instead, rather than giving her the full 
details and explaining about the time limits involved, as above, the bank asked for only brief 
details of her dispute before directing her elsewhere.
It was only after a charity gave her advice on what to do that Miss L tried to resolve the issue 
with the merchant. She also made it clear from the start she was willing to return everything 
to the merchant.  So Im satisfied Miss L would have met the requirements of this 
chargeback code.
 
Ive looked at the purchase agreement/contract Miss L signed. I accept that, notwithstanding 
the undefined Platinum item, this didnt specify she was guaranteed to be supplied with 
modelling jobs. But Ive looked at the supporting documents Miss L has provided along with her own testimony. These follow a pattern consistent with well documented modelling 
scams.
 
As soon as Miss L paid her £50 refundable deposit for the photoshoot, she received an 
email from I. I can see this sets out that if the shoot went well it could be a life changing 
opportunity for her. It went on to say that in a matter of three to four weeks she could be 
signed to an agency and start working. At the shoot, Miss L was given a written assessment 
saying how well shed done. It recommended she pursue modelling in high street fashion, 
catalogue, television and film. Having read this assessment Im satisfied it would have led 
Miss L to believe she was on the verge of a career in modelling.
 
Miss L told us the studio mentioned well known retailers it worked with and mentioned 
someone who worked for a leading online fashion brand. She says was told if she paid 
£1,925, she would get a manager, a slot on their website, a web host name, photos and that 
she would get work.
 
When Miss L hesitated and said she wanted to think about things and come back later, the 
studio told her if she left, all her photos would be deleted for data protection reasons. Im 
satisfied this was said to give Miss L very little time to think through her options and to put 
pressure on her to pay the money there and then. I can fully understand why Miss L was 
persuaded to make the payment as shed just been giving such a glowing assessment of her 
modelling potential.
 
Miss Ls testimony has been consistent throughout - from the moment she got in touch with 
Starling and in all her contact with our service. After looking at the whole chain of events, Im 
satisfied Miss L was led to believe that if she paid the £1,925, she would get modelling work 
in return. I dont accept she would have paid this amount if she hadnt thought this was the 
case  or that she was paying such a large sum just for a web page and photos. With this 
being the case and, as above, Miss L being able to meet the chargeback code requirements, 
I dont think Starling treated her fairly and reasonably when it didnt pursue a chargeback for 
her.
 
Starling have said that the documents accepted by the card scheme provider to support a 
chargeback under this code are: a cardholder email, letter or message. But thats not quite 
right. The scheme rule information it sent to us states it needs a cardholder email, letter, 
message or completed dispute resolution form describing Miss Ls complaint in sufficient 
detail to enable all parties to understand the dispute. From this, Im satisfied Miss Ls 
testimony on a dispute resolution form would have been sufficient for the bank to attempt a 
chargeback.
 
Given all the circumstances Ive outlined above, Im satisfied Starling should have pursued a 
chargeback request for Miss L. The banks failure to do so denied Miss L the opportunity of 
getting her money refunded and added to the distress she experienced throughout this 
whole episode.
 
Also, I can see Miss L did receive a refund from Starling for the £50 photoshoot deposit. I 
would point out here that Starling didnt raise a chargeback for this amount, although this is 
what it told Miss L it had done. Instead, it simply refunded the money to her account.
 
To put things right, Starling should now refund the £1,925 to Miss L together with 8% yearly 
simple interest on this amount. The interest should be calculated from 30 October 2019 to 
the date of settlement. Ive used this date as Im satisfied that if Starling had pursued 
Miss Ls chargeback request as Id have expected, it could have reasonably attempted it by 
this point instead of referring her elsewhere.
 Im also satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Starling to pay Miss L £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced due to the bank not pursuing a chargeback for her.
My final decision
 My final decision is that Starling Bank Limited should:
refund £1,925 to Miss L. It should also add 8% yearly simple interest on this amount 
from 30 October 2019 until the date the refund is made; and
pay Miss L £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
If Starling considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Miss L how much its taken off. It should also give Miss L a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman