DRN-3673731
The complaint
X has complained that they were unable to proceed with their application for car insurance 
via Yoga Insurance Services Limited (Yoga) because it didnt offer Mx titles on its systems.
Background
In May 2022 X need to apply for new car insurance and was offered a quote from Yoga, an 
insurance broker, through a third-party comparison website. However, when X tried to 
complete their application with Yoga they were unable to do so because Yogas website 
didnt provide Mx, Xs title, from its drop-down list. As Mx is the title on Xs drivers licence, 
Yogas systems were unable to override the issue because the application couldnt match 
the details on the Driver and Vehicle Licence Agencys (DVLAs) records.
X complained to Yoga that they were being excluded from applying for insurance purely 
because they are non-binary and use Mx as their title. 
Yoga responded that it wasnt intentionally excluding X because of their gender identity but, 
because of the limitations of its systems at the time of application, it was unable to override 
the issue and so couldnt proceed with Xs application. It apologised for the inconvenience 
and suggested they purchase their insurance elsewhere. 
Unhappy with Yogas response X brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Xs complaint already. She found that while Yoga may not have 
intended to exclude non-binary, trans or gender fluid consumers who use Mx as their 
preferred title, it was effectively doing so when it only provided gendered titles in its 
application process. She upheld Xs complaint and suggested Yoga pay them £200 
compensation in recognition of the upset it had caused. 
Yoga disagreed with the investigators view. It said that it worried our service was setting a 
very dangerous precedent and alluded to the fact that the comparison website X had used 
initially also didnt offer Mx as a title. It felt that it was unfair for Yoga the be penalised in 
this way as it was the comparison website that was primarily at fault. It also clarified that 
since X had attempted to apply for insurance with Yoga it had updated its systems and Mx 
was now available as a title.
It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it has been passed to me to 
consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with the findings made by the investigator and for much 
the same reasons. 
Yoga has raised concerns that as the comparison website also didnt offer Mx as a title, 
complaints could also be brought against it. I agree this may happen, but as Im sure Yoga is 
aware, this service considers each complaint on its own merits. So, if a complaint is brought 
against another business on similar grounds any decision or finding made will be based on 
the specifics of that complaint. As such I dont think it has any bearing on the complaint 
before me, which concerns Xs dealing with Yoga as an individual business. 
Yoga has also said that the issues started when X entered their title as Mr on the 
comparison website and it carried through to Yogas website in this way. Having read Xs 
testimony, it seems as though they did this purely as a work around because Mx wasnt 
available to them when they started their initial search through the comparison site. The 
issue here isnt what was entered initially, but the fact that Yoga has confirmed that even if X 
had come directly to its site, without using a comparison site at all, they still wouldnt have 
been able to progress their application because Mx, their preferred title, and the one that 
appears on their drivers licence, wasnt available to them. 
So, I dont think the points Yoga has raised in regard to the information inputted in the 
comparison site has any bearing on the problems X faced when trying to arrange insurance 
via Yoga. Regardless of what happened initially Yogas systems didnt provide the full list of 
titles it needed to. 
Yoga has also stated that its impossible to know for sure whether or not X has lost out 
financially because they were never offered insurance via Yoga. X went on to arrange car 
insurance elsewhere and it could be that the insurance they ultimately ended up with was 
the best deal for them. Yoga has said any offer it may have formally made might have been 
considerably more expensive than those made by its competitors.
Again, I feel Yoga is missing the point here. Our investigator clearly set out in her view that 
she wasnt awarding the price difference between the initial quote X told us they got through 
the comparison site and what they eventually ended up paying. This is because there are 
too many unknown variables that may have increased the overall cost of any policy 
eventually offered by Yoga. Rather she suggested that Yoga pay X £200 in recognition of 
the fact that they were excluded from applying for insurance through Yogas website (the 
only mechanism consumers can use to purchase insurance from Yoga) merely because of 
their title. This was a distressing experience for X and the compensation suggested was in 
recognition of this avoidable and unnecessary distress. 
I appreciate that Yoga feels it is being unfairly penalised for not being able to progress Xs 
application. It has said that it was beyond its control. However, given it was the limitations of 
its own IT systems that caused the problems, it seems to me that it was very much within 
Yogas control. This is further evidenced by the fact that Yoga has since updated its systems 
and now does offer Mx as a title option. 
Therefore, having reviewed all of the evidence provided by both X and Yoga I agree that the 
£200 compensation suggested by our investigator is reasonable in the circumstances. Yoga 
may not have set out to deliberately exclude non-binary, trans or gender fluid consumers 
from using its services, but its failure to offer non-gendered titles in its application process 
effectively did this. And while it may not have taken X a long time to arrange alternative 
insurance elsewhere thats not the point. It was distressing and alienating to be prevented 
from even applying for insurance merely because of their gender identity and for that Yoga 
should pay compensation. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Yoga should pay X £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it 
caused them. My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Xs complaint against Yoga Insurance Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman