DRN-4283810
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way in which Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
handled his disputed transaction claim.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr M entered into an agreement with a merchant (E) to rent a car. He paid 
£414.59 using his Virgin credit card and signed the rental agreement.
In October 2022 Mr M discovered that £220 had been debited from his Virgin Money account 
by E. This was in relation to four speeding tickets issued to Mr M whilst he was driving the 
rental car.
Mr M disputed the charges but was unable to resolve matters with E so he raised a disputed 
transaction claim with Virgin Money.
Virgin Money considered the disputed transaction claim under chargeback and section 75. In 
its final response it said that no breach of contract had been demonstrated and that it was 
unable to progress the claim.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt a relevant chargeback 
reason for the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, and that Virgin Money hadnt treated Mr M 
unfairly by not raising a chargeback. In relation to section 75, the investigator said he 
thought that Virgin Money had fairly concluded that there had been no breach of contract, 
because there was a term in the agreement between Mr M and E which gave E authority to 
charge a £55 fee when dealing with offences sent to E whilst cars were on hire.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against the possible chargeback reasons to see what evidence is required. This is 
so it can decide whether it can make a successful claim for the customer. Card issuers dont 
have to submit claims and will only do so if they have evidence which will support a 
chargeback claim. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect 
them to raise a chargeback if there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at the Mastercard scheme chargeback rules which are applicable to Mr Ms 
Virgin Money account. I cant see that any of the possible chargeback reasons are relevant 
to the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. Because of this, I dont think Virgin Money made 
an error or acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback.
Section 75
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr Ms complaint against Virgin Money, I would need to be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that Virgin Moneys response 
to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr M hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
In this case, Mr M says that E had no contractual right to charge him the £55 fee because he 
didnt incur a fine.
Ive looked at the agreement that Mr M entered into with E. the agreement includes the 
following term, which is relevant to Mr Ms complaint:
Traffic and parking fines: If the vehicle receives a fine during the rental period, you will be 
responsible for full payment of the fine as well as a £55 traffic fine management fee per fine. 
This includes, but is not limited to, parking offences, speeding fines, congestion charges, bus 
lane offences, traffic signal offences, toll road offences, private company fines etc
Its not disputed that Mr M committed four separate speeding offences whilst he was driving 
the car hed hired from E. Notification of the offences was sent to E as the registered owner 
of the car.
Mr M says that because he wasnt prosecuted and didnt receive a fine, the terms in the 
agreement with E cant be enforced against him and the charges of £55 per offence 
shouldnt have been applied.
Ive seen a letter provided by Mr M which suggests that the prosecutor has decided to take 
no further action as at 3 March 2023, but that the prosecutor reserves the right to prosecute 
the case against Mr M at a future date. However, this doesnt change the fact that E received 
four notices of intended prosecution and that E had to undertake administrative tasks in 
relation to these, including (for instance) complying with its obligation to identity the driver.
 When Mr M signed the car rental agreement with E, he agreed to pay any traffic fines plus 
the administrative fees that E charges to deal with a fine. The purpose of the term in the 
contract is to cover the administrative costs incurred by E if a driver commits a traffic offence 
whilst driving the rental vehicle. Im satisfied that the clause covers circumstances where a 
speeding offence has been committed, and that E applied the charges in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that a breach of contract has occurred. Therefore, I dont think that Virgin Money acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it declined to take the section 75 claim any further. For these 
reasons, Im unable to uphold the complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman