DRN-4038963
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc didnt fairly or reasonably deal 
with her claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in 
relation to a holiday product she purchased, with Mr P, in 2011.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mrs Ps, because it relates to a credit 
card in her sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Ps name, Ill refer to Mr 
and Mrs P throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P purchased membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) in 
May 2011. The purchase price was around £20,098. They part funded the purchase with 
Mrs Ps Marks & Spencer credit card. The holiday product was a one-week floating 
membership which offered Mr and Mrs P the opportunity to stay in holiday accommodation 
during any season.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with what happened at the time the holiday products were sold 
to them. In July 2018, Mrs P - using a professional representative (PR) - made a claim for 
misrepresentation under Section 75 of the CCA. She said they were told by the Supplier that 
there would be no problem with booking a fortnight's holiday at the resort at any time of the 
year. However, theyve never been able to do this as theyve always been told theres "no 
availability".
Mr and Mrs P want a full refund.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services said it wasnt able to fully review and provide a 
response to the Section 75 claim as it didnt receive all the information it needed from Mrs P. 
It concluded it had followed its procedures correctly in regard to the claim and didnt issue a 
refund.
Mr and Mrs P referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator issued a view in November 2020. They concluded that:
The Section 75 claim for misrepresentation was made out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
The Section 140A claim was not upheld on its merits.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept our adjudicators view. They reiterated that it didnt matter when 
they tried to book a holiday, they were always told there was no availability.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, the details of which are set out below.
Was the right arrangement in place?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a 
claim under that provision. And given the facts of this complaint, thats also the case when 
claiming under Section 140A of the CCA.
As the purchase agreement indicates that payments under that agreement (except for those 
for finance) had to be made to a trustee rather than the Supplier directly, its possible that 
there was no such agreement in place.
However, given the overall outcome Ive reached below, I dont think its necessary to make 
a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for the purpose of this decision 
because I think Marks & Spencer Financial Services had and has a defence to the Mrs Ps 
Section 75 claim under the LA and I dont think the complaint should succeed under Section 
140A either.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mrs Ps claim was made out of time under the LA. But the 
Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether Marks & 
Spencer Financial Services response to the claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs P entered 
into the purchase agreement. I say this because they entered into the agreement based on 
the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. And Mrs P used her 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services credit card to help pay for the purchase, it was when 
she used her credit card that she suffered the loss.
It follows therefore that I think the cause of action accrued in May 2011 when Mr and Mrs P 
made their purchase, and this means that this claim had to be made within six years of that 
date. As the claim wasnt made until April 2018, I think its likely to have fallen outside of the 
time limit set out in the LA.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the creditor and debtor 
is unfair, but it is relevant law, so I have taken it into consideration.
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statue  which is governed 
by section 9 of the LA. So, the time limit for making a claim is six years from the date when 
the cause of action accrued. But in this case the six years applied from when the relationship 
between Marks & Spencer Financial Services and Mrs P ended  assuming it has ended.
Based on the relevant case law, it can be argued that the limitation period started when the 
credit relating to the purchase in question was paid off, rather than when the relevant credit 
agreement is formally brought to an end and the entire debtor-creditor relationship ends. That said, consideration also needs to be given to whether there are continuing financial 
detriments and/or ongoing contractual obligations that continue to render the debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair.
In this case, Mrs P made the initial payment on her credit card in 2011. But I do not have the 
information to determine when this payment amount was settled. Because of this, it isnt 
clear whether Marks & Spencer Financial Services is likely to have a defence to a claim 
under Section 140A under the LA. So, I have considered the merits of this complaint under 
Section 140A.
Having done that, Ive thought about Mrs Ps allegation of misrepresentation and whether 
there were any other acts and/or omissions by Marks & Spencer Financial Services and/or 
the Supplier that were unfair or misleading. In this case, Mrs Ps allegation is that she was 
told they would be able to book a fortnights holiday at the resort when they wished but then 
they werent able to do this. While I appreciate why Mr and Mrs P were upset by the 
experience they had, I am not persuaded that this issue means that a misrepresentation 
occurred. I say this because while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps membership allowed them to 
book holidays in any season, I have nothing to show that they were guaranteed availability. I 
understand they wanted to book a fortnights holiday, but the purchase agreement sets out it 
is for one week floating. Therefore, while I do not doubt that Mr and Mrs P may have 
believed they would be able to book a fortnights holiday whenever they wished, I do not 
have evidence to say this was misrepresented to them. Because of this I do not find I can 
say the purchase was misrepresented and based on the information I have received I do not 
find there are allegations that mean Section 140A needs to be considered further.
No additional information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I set out my conclusions and reasoning for these in my provisional decision. As no further 
information was received in response to this my conclusions havent changed. 
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not Mrs Ps claims have expired under the 
LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, a claim under Section 75 of the 
CCA against Marks & Spencer Financial Services is likely to have been made outside of the 
relevant time limit set out in the LA. In regard to Section 140A, as is explained in my 
provisional decision, I do not find I have evidence to say the purchase agreement was 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P. Because of this and based on the information I have 
received I do not find there are allegations that mean Section 140A needs to be considered 
further. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Marks & Spencer Financial Services needs to do 
anything to put things right in this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman