DRN-3920493
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a guarantor loan Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to him. 
He says he took this loan to consolidate debts and he couldnt go to his local bank as he had 
a poor credit report and wouldnt accept his application.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr B with a loan for £5,000.00 in July 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £200. The purpose of the loan at the time of 
the application was recorded as debt consolidation.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Bamboo had told us. And he thought that 
Bamboo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr Bs complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Id like 
to explain why in a little more detail.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo says it agreed to Mr Bs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out. In its view all of this information showed Mr B could to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr B has said he should never have been provided with this guarantor 
loan because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Bamboo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that while Bamboo might not have obtained bank statements, 
which isnt a requirement before providing a loan, it did carry out checks with credit reference 
agencies. So I dont think that this was a case of Bamboo simply accepting an over-
optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. 
Bamboos credit searches showed that Mr B had had some minor difficulties repaying credit 
and that hed taken out a payday type loan relatively recently. Furthermore, Mr B had taken 
out cash on his credit card. But Mr B was being provided with enough funds to clear all of the 
debts that showed on his credit file. 
Indeed, although this loan was expensive and while it did increase the length of time Mr B 
had to make payments for, theres no doubting that Mr B would have been able to afford the 
repayments and would have had an increased monthly disposable income as long as he 
cleared his existing debts. 
Equally, as this was Mr Bs first loan with Bamboo, Im satisfied that it was reasonably 
entitled to believe that Mr B would settle his existing debts with the proceeds from this loan. 
And that it wouldnt be increasing Mr Bs existing indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I accept that Mr B went on to experience difficulty making the payments. And having looked 
at his bank statements, I can see why this happened. Ive also seen that Mr Bs position 
ended up deteriorating after this loan was provided too. But given obtaining bank statements 
werent the only way further checks into Mr Bs circumstances could have been carried out, 
Im not persuaded that further checks would necessarily have highlighted the reason why   
Mr B might not have been able to make the repayments on this loan. 
Furthermore, Bamboo could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. It wont have known Mr B wouldnt clear all his debts once he was 
provided with the funds. All Bamboo could do was take reasonable steps to ensure the 
payments would be affordable should Mr B clear his other debts like he said he would, which 
for reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied it did so.
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to   
Mr B  Im not persuaded that reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that 
Mr B shouldnt have been lent to notwithstanding the fact that the payments appeared to be 
affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman