DRN-2762995
The complaint
Mr S says Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) lent to him irresponsibly and treated 
him unfairly when he couldnt repay the loan. 
What happened
 Mr S took out a 36-month loan for £4000 on 25 April 2019. The monthly repayment was 
£394.44 and the total repayable was £14,199.84. The loan was a log book loan. It was given 
on the basis that Mr S provided Varooma with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if 
Mr S didnt make his loan repayments, Varooma could potentially recover its losses through 
the sale of the car. As Mr S was unable to make his repayments his car was repossessed 
and sold at auction. There remains an outstanding balance on the loan.
Mr S says Varooma didnt carry out proper checks to make sure the loan was affordable for 
him; it didnt correctly register the bill of sale; and it didnt follow the correct process when it 
repossessed the car. Its refusal to fairly consider his payment plan offer after the recovery of 
the car caused him a lot of stress when he was already struggling with ill health.
The adjudicator largely upheld Mr Ss complaint. He said the checks Varooma carried out 
were not proportionate, and had it carried out better checks it would have seen Mr S was 
having problems managing his money. A number of his credit accounts had recently 
defaulted and a CCJ was registered against him in the prior month. So as a responsible 
lender Varooma would have realised it was unlikely Mr S would be able to sustainably repay 
this loan. However he didnt find Varooma had acted unfairly or unreasonable in any other 
way. He felt it had fairly managed the loan account once it went into arrears and 
repossessed the car in line with industry guidelines. 
Mr S responded saying Varooma had taken his car with £1,500 worth of possessions inside, 
without knocking on his door, so this must be considered in the compensation, and it had 
ignored his requests to see the correctly registered bill of sale. The adjudicator said Mr S 
had been informed about the date of the repossession so he could have removed his 
possessions, and he was also given details of how to recover his property after the car was 
taken. So he disagreed Varooma should compensate Mr S for them.
Varooma responded saying it disagreed with the trade value of the car the adjudicator used 
in the redress, but it anyway didnt agree to refund the value of the car to Mr S. It argues he 
is due no refund due to non-payment and Varooma has already suffered a significant 
financial loss. It said it would remove the loan from his credit file and write off the outstanding 
balance, but it must be taken into account Mr S signed a contract he then breached and 
didnt even pay back 1% of the money he borrowed. It also provided evidence showing the 
bill of sale was properly registered within five days of the execution of the loan agreement on 
30 April 2019. 
As agreement could not be reached between the parties the case was passed to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The first part of Mr Ss complaint relates to the affordability of the loan. Varooma did not 
respond to, or challenge, the adjudicators finding that it should not have lent to Mr S. It has 
agreed to remove the loan from his credit file and write off the outstanding balance. So as 
this area is no longer in dispute and it seems Varooma accepts it should not have lent to    
Mr S, I will focus on what remains in dispute. This is whether or not the calculation of redress 
should include refunding the market value of Mr Ss car, and if so what should that value be. 
When we uphold complaints about irresponsible lending our approach to redress is to 
ensure the lender puts the customer back in the position they would be in had it not made an 
irresponsible lending decision. This means Mr S should have repaid no more than the capital 
he borrowed - and should still have his car. Unfortunately Varooma cant simply return it as it 
has sold the car. 
I dont think its reasonable not to consider the fact Mr S lost his car as a consequence
of being given a loan that Varooma ought to have realised wasnt sustainably affordable for
him. He no longer has the asset he secured the loan against. Whilst this could be an 
acceptable outcome if he breached the terms of a loan that was lent responsibly, that is not 
the case here. So Varooma needs to ensure Mr S doesnt lose out because of the 
repossession and sale of the car.
As I have found Varooma was at fault in its lending decision, fair redress must consider all of
Mr Ss financial loss. Had Varooma not approved the loan he would not have been in the
position that led to the repossession of his car. Mr S argues he has incurred additional 
losses to a value of £1,500 as he left possessions in the car. However, I agree with the 
adjudicator that Mr S could have mitigated against this loss by removing the items prior to 
the repossession date that he was notified of, or by recovering them afterwards. So I cant 
fairly hold Varooma liable for the cost of these goods.
Varooma has confirmed that the sale price of the car at auction was £3850. But as I dont 
think Varooma should have given Mr S this loan, it follows that I dont think he should lose 
out because of Varoomas decision to sell the car at that price.
To work out the fair way to put things right I need to understand the market value of the car.
To do this I have reviewed three standard industry price guides that are used for valuing
vehicles (CAP, Carzana and Glasss) and assumed the car was in below average condition. 
Ive done this as Varooma has provided its inspection report and photos of the car on 
collection which show it had a significant amount of damage to the bodywork (nine instances 
of dents, scratches or cracks are listed). Only CAP provides a trade value adjusted for a 
vehicle in below average condition, so I have reduced the Carzana and Glasss valuation by 
7.5% to mirror the reduction in value in the CAP guide. 
On this basis I am estimating the market value to have been the average of the trade price 
valuations from the sources listed above (£5377, £6150 and £6050) - so £5846. 
In response to the adjudicator Varooma explained its reserving policy and why it sells at 
auction. But these are commercial decisions it has made and the price it accepted doesnt 
necessarily reflect the value of the car to Mr S at the time or the price he might have 
received on selling it himself.  It also pointed out it has made a loss on this loan. But the calculation of the redress would not be affected by either the level of profit or the size of the 
loss a lender has made on a loan that we have concluded should not have been given. 
It follows I find the market value of the car must be considered in the calculation of redress. 
Did Varooma treat Mr S unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont think it did. I acknowledge and I am sorry that Mr S was experiencing difficult 
circumstances at the time. But, like the adjudicator, I cant see that Varooma acted unfairly 
when Mr S was unable to make payment, and nor was its decision not to accept the 
proposed payment plan unreasonable given the supporting evidence Mr S provided. I have 
also havent found any evidence of failings in its default or repossession process.  
Putting things right
Varooma must put Mr S back in the position he would be in had it not made an irresponsible
lending decision. This means Mr S should have repaid no more than the capital he
borrowed, and he should not have lost his vehicle.
So Varooma should:
- refund an amount of £5846 to Mr S to reflect the loss of his car
- it can deduct from this amount the original capital amount of £4000 Mr S borrowed
- write off the outstanding balance which I understand includes, for example, interest, 
late fees and repossession charges
- remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in respect of the loan
My final decision
 My decision is I am upholding Mr Ss complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman