DRN-4222707
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D are unhappy with the amount Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) 
offered to settle their claim for an escape of water.
They had a buildings and contents insurance policy with RSA in joint names but, for ease of 
reading and because she dealt with the complaint, Ill refer only to Mrs D throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs D claimed under her policy after her en-suite shower leaked, causing additional damage 
to the ceiling of the room below. RSA accepted the claim and scoped for the work needed to 
repair the damage. 
The damage caused is not in dispute, so I wont go into detail here. 
Mrs Ds plumber provided two quotes for the repairs. Because she preferred to use her own 
plumber, RSA confirmed a cash settlement offer of £2,200. Mrs Ds plumber quoted £3,600. 
Both figures are rounded for simplicity.
Because RSAs cash offer was much lower than her plumbers quote, Mrs D complained. 
She thought RSA hadnt quoted for work to current building standards.
RSA looked into Mrs Ds concerns, and it was several weeks before it issued its final 
response on the matter. During that time, Mrs D contacted RSA to push the claim forward 
and to explain that she needed her shower for medical reasons.
RSAs final response to Mrs D was that its offer was in line with the policy, so she brought 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator thought RSA had handled the claim in line with the policy, although they 
recommended £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by RSAs 
delays handling the claim.
RSA didnt agree that compensation was warranted because it had offered the cash 
settlement promptly and the delays resulted from Mrs D disputing the amount.
First provisional decision
I issued my first provisional decision in May 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
In summary, I said RSA had offered a fair cash settlement in line with the policy. That was 
because Mrs D chose to use her own plumber, so RSA was entitled to settle at the amount it 
wouldve cost using its own suppliers. However, RSA did offer to pay for all four walls to be 
tiled which was more than I wouldve required. For the service shortfalls identified, I thought 
compensation of £100 was more appropriate.
Mrs D had some concerns that the policy didnt require RSA to cover the cost of complying 
with building regulations. But the policy only said it wouldnt cover the cost of complying with 
building regulations if it was something Mrs D already knew about before the escape of 
water.
I said I was intending to:
require RSA to pay £100 by way of apology for its delay responding to Mrs Ds 
request for an increased settlement amount.
RSA accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs D didnt think it was fair because she hadnt 
preferred to use her own plumber. She said RSA hadnt offered to complete the work, so she 
had to make her own arrangements. 
I asked RSA to provide evidence that it offered to do the work for Mrs D. It provided me with 
information obtained from its contractor, and said Mrs D was always going to use her own 
plumber. RSA also said the policy places responsibility on her to ask it to carry out the work, 
which she didnt do.
Second provisional decision
In light of the comments from Mrs D, and the additional evidence RSA provided, I 
reconsidered the complaint. I issued my second provisional decision in June 2023 saying I 
was intending to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
Policy
RSA said the policy places responsibility on Mrs D to ask it to do the work.
Page 12 of the policy booklet, under the heading Preferred Suppliers, says:
   
Our philosophy is to repair or replace lost or damaged property, where we consider it 
appropriate, and we have developed a network of contractors, repairers and product 
suppliers dedicated to providing claim solutions. Where we can offer repair or 
replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to pay our customer a cash 
settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we would have paid our 
preferred supplier.
Page 19 of the policy booklet, under the heading How We Settle Claims, says:
1 d. Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but instead 
you request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not normally 
exceed what we would have paid our preferred supplier. (The emphasis is mine.)These two sections of the policy indicate to me that Mrs D couldve reasonably expected 
RSA to offer to do the work, and it was not her responsibility to ask for its services. Rather it 
was up to Mrs D to specifically request a cash settlement if thats what she preferred.
When I asked RSA for evidence that it offered its service to Mrs D, it provided me with a 
copy of emails between it and its contractors. The contractor clearly stated that it did not 
offer to complete the work:
[Contractor] never offered the customer the use of [its service] as
an option. The customer had quotes and accepted a cash settlement from our initial 
survey. At no point did [the contractor] offer the customer the use of the [repair service]
Further to this, RSAs notes for a call with Mrs D on 19 January 2022 say:
[RSA] advised [it] will book [contractor] to attended (sic) to validate the damage once they 
have validated and confirmed cover they will look to make a cash settlement [RSA] 
confirmed that [contractor] do not complete any works and [Mrs D] will have to employ 
their own contractor 
Based on the new evidence, Im minded to agree with Mrs D that RSA didnt offer to 
complete the work for her. That means RSA shouldnt have relied on the policy condition 
which allows it to offer its own costs to repair rather than the cost to Mrs D.
With that in mind, Ive looked at the quotes Mrs D sent in. In her first quote, which included 
tiling four walls, replacing the shower tray and enclosure, and fitting a new fan in the loft 
space, the total is £4,560.
RSA already offered to pay for all four walls, so that cost is fair. But the replacement shower 
enclosure, tray and fan are all betterment. That is, they werent affected by the leak so I cant 
reasonably say they needed replacing. The cost for those three items on Mrs Ds quote was 
£1,010, which Ive deducted from the total, leaving an outstanding amount of £3,550. This is 
the amount I think RSA is responsible for because it didnt offer to complete the repairs.
In light of the failure to handle the claim in the way it shouldve done, and because it based 
its offer on a policy condition which didnt apply, Im minded to increase the compensation 
back to £250.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and require RSA to:
pay Mr and Mrs D the cash settlement of £3,550 (less any policy excess or 
settlement payment already made), and 
pay £250 compensation for the delays, inconvenience caused, and the mistake it 
made in relying on a policy condition inappropriately.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs D had nothing further to add.
RSA accepted my second provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party had any further comment to make, my second provisional decision 
becomes my final decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my second provisional decision, I uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ds complaint and Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc must:
pay Mr and Mrs D the cash settlement of £3,550 (less any policy excess or 
settlement payment already made), and
pay £250 compensation for the delays, inconvenience caused, and the mistake it 
made in relying on a policy condition inappropriately.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman