DRN-3855657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Skipton Building Society gave them unsuitable investment 
advice in 2005, 2006 and 2008.
Mr and Mrs H are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). 
What happened
In 2005, Mr and Mrs H received advice from Skipton to invest £53,000 that they held on 
deposit. They were advised to do the following:
- Invest £20,000 into a joint Prudential Bond in the Distribution Managed fund
- Invest £19,000 into a joint Standard Life Bond in the Managed fund
- Invest £7,000 each into a maxi ISA  for Mr H this was invested in the Investec 
Cautious Managed fund and for Mrs H this was invested in the New Star Monthly 
Income fund.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs H wanted to invest another £14,000. Skipton recommended they invest 
it into their ISAs but Mr and Mrs H chose to invest it into their Prudential and Standard Life 
bonds  topping up each bond with £7,000.
In 2008, Mrs H was advised to invest the proceeds of a maturing bond into a six year capital 
protected structured product.
Mr and Mrs H complain that these investments exposed them to too much risk. Their CMC 
says the underlying funds were medium to high risk investments and its clear Mr and Mrs H 
couldnt take that level of risk. Mr and Mrs H also complain they werent left with enough 
funds on deposit for emergencies.
I sent out my provisional decision on 25 November 2022 outlining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold the complaint. The relevant extract, which forms part of this decision, is as follows:
Attitude to risk
To consider whether the advice Skipton gave Mr and Mrs H was suitable, Ive considered Mr 
and Mrs Hs recorded attitude to risk. I can see its recorded as being medium low. Mr and 
Mrs H were in their 50s in 2005, had four children who werent dependent and didnt have 
any pension provision. Mr H was earning over £50,000 per year and Mrs H wasnt working. 
They were looking to invest a lump sum that they held on deposit for better returns than they 
could get in deposit accounts.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Hs situation, its clear they wanted to achieve some level of growth to 
their capital. And with no pension in place, and around ten years until Mr H reached his 
target retirement age, I dont think it was unsuitable to take some risk with their money to try 
to achieve some level of return for the future. So, I think its likely Mr and Mrs H were 
comfortable, and had capacity to take a medium low level of risk.
Emergency funds
Mr and Mrs H complain they werent left enough money on deposit for emergencies. Ive 
considered this carefully. I can see they were advised to invest the full £53,000 in 2005 and 
£14,000 in 2006. Looking at their assets, they held cash in ISAs as well as other bank 
accounts. It was recommended that Mr and Mrs H leave emergency funds in cash of 
£15,000. I dont think that was an unsuitable level of emergency funds. I can see that the 
majority of these funds were in a cash ISA, but I cant see that they were inaccessible. Mr H 
was continuing to earn and save during this time, they didnt have any planned expenditure 
and the funds were available for emergency purposes. I dont think it was unsuitable, in this 
case, for some of those emergency funds to be held within a cash ISA.
It appears in 2006 they had additional money on deposit and were advised to ensure at least 
£15,000 was accessible. Whilst, again, some of this was in a cash ISA, in this case looking 
at Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances I consider them to have held enough cash for emergencies 
and that this was accessible in the case of an emergency. Its also clear that Mr H continued 
to earn and save. I dont consider the advice Skipton gave to be unsuitable based on the 
level of emergency funds available.
Its also worth noting that it appears Mr and Mrs H were keen to determine the level of cash 
they invested, as well as where it was invested, which is evident from their decision to 
decline much of the advisers recommendations. Ill cover this in more detail below.
The investment advice
In 2005, Mr and Mrs H were advised to take out an ISA each and to invest in two bonds. 
Neither Skipton or Mr and Mrs H have been able to provide me with the fund fact sheets 
from the time so Ive considered the evidence available to me to determine if the investments 
exposed Mr and Mrs H to too much risk.
Looking at the fact find, as well as the suitability report from the time I can see Skipton 
advised Mr H to take out income protection in the event that he couldnt work. It also advised 
him to look into pension options. It was Mr and Mrs H that declined this advice saying they 
didnt want to lock the capital away in a pension. Its clear they only wanted advice on 
investing the lump sum so Skipton advised accordingly.
Both Mr and Mrs H were advised to utilise their ISA allowances. And looking at the funds 
they were advised to invest in within their ISAs  the Cautious Managed fund and Monthly 
Income fund  Ive not seen anything to suggest these posed too high a risk. Their attitude to 
risk was medium-low, and from what I understand, both these funds invested in some UK 
equities, bonds and fixed interest securities. Neither party has been able to show me 
evidence that would suggest that these funds were too high risk for Mr and Mrs H. Skipton 
has been unable to provide the fund fact sheets when requested.  If Mr and Mrs Hs CMC is 
able to provide evidence of the asset classes to show it presented higher risk then I can take 
that into consideration.
The majority of Mr and Mrs Hs lump sum went into their investment bonds. Skipton has 
provided the illustrations from the time, and Ive been able to see the likely asset make up of 
both the funds the bonds were invested in on the providers websites. I cant see anything to 
suggest that either of these bonds presented more risk than Mr and Mrs H were willing to 
take. So, it follows that I dont think the advice Skipton gave in 2005 was unsuitable.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs H wanted to invest a further £14,000. Skipton advised them to put 
£7,000 each into their ISAs to invest in different funds. However Mr and Mrs H didnt accept 
this advice. They decided to top up their existing bonds. Ive already established that their bonds werent unsuitable for them and I cant see that their circumstances had changed that 
would make this unsuitable. I can see Skipton warned Mr and Mrs H that by investing into 
the bond they werent utilising their available ISA allowances, and that the return on the bond 
investment may be affected by corporation tax paid out within the bond. Im satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs H decided to top up their existing bonds in 2006 and I cant see anything to show 
Skipton gave them unsuitable advice in this regard.
In 2008, Mrs H received advice to invest the proceeds of a matured investment. Skipton 
recorded that Mrs H didnt need access to the capital  which had been invested previously. 
At this point Mrs H wanted a low risk investment and was advised to invest into a six year 
capital protected structured product. Mr and Mrs Hs CMC says this was a complex product 
that wasnt sufficiently explained. I agree that these products can be difficult to understand, 
particularly the features surrounding the return. But, looking at Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time I cant see anything to suggest that this advice was unsuitable for her.
She said she didnt need to access the money for six years, which I think is likely considering 
this money had already been invested without access. Mrs H was familiar with investments 
at this point and had money already exposed to medium low risk investments. Its clear she 
wanted less risk and I think this provided that. Mrs Hs capital was guaranteed as was part of 
the return provided the investment was held for the full six years, and the product could have 
provided a return better than what shed have achieved keeping the cash on deposit. I cant 
see that the advice to invest in this product was unsuitable for Mrs H. As a side note I can 
see Mrs H didnt access the funds and that it paid out what it was intended to.
In summary, I understand that Mr and Mrs H have concerns over the advice Skipton 
provided, particularly as they may have lost money with some of their investments. But, 
looking at their circumstances at the time, and the information I have about the funds they 
were advised to invest in, I dont think the advice was unsuitable.
Responses to the provisional decision
Skipton didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H disagreed. Their CMC 
made the following points for me to consider:
- Mr and Mrs H were advised to invest 66% of their liquid wealth. Mrs H was 
unemployed and had no means to replace any losses. Mr H was a labourer so we 
would question whether between them the clients actually understood what they 
were taking out.
- Mr and Mrs H had virtually no investment experience but were advised to invest 
directly onto the stock market.
- The fund fact sheets show their money was invested in a high percentage of equities 
which cant be suitable for someone with virtually no investment experience.
Mr and Mrs Hs CMC also sent in some fund fact sheets which showed the holdings of two 
funds Mr and Mrs H were invested in as of 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs CMCs comments but it hasnt changed my decision. My 
decision is the same as set out in my provisional decision (extract above which forms part of 
this decision) for the same reasons. I will however address the additional points.Id already concluded that I felt the amount Mr and Mrs H were advised to invest wasnt 
unsuitable for their specific circumstances. They continued to accrue funds on deposit and 
had declined any advice around investing for their pensions or protection purposes. They 
had no planned expenditure and were keen to get as much as a return as they could. Mr H 
was still earning and they were able to save regularly. I consider the funds they had in cash 
were sufficient for their specific circumstances and Im satisfied they werent advised to 
invest too much for their objectives.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs Hs employment status meant they couldnt 
understand what investments they were taking out. And as mentioned in my provisional 
decision, it would appear the investment decisions were largely driven by Mr and Mr H given 
they didnt accept the advisers recommendations on a number of occasions. Skiptons 
responsibility was to ensure the advice it gave Mr and Mrs H was suitable, and having 
considered their circumstances, Im satisfied that it was for the same reasons outlined in my 
provisional decision.
Finally, Ive considered the fund fact sheets that Mr and Mrs Hs CMC provided. One is for a 
fund that Mr and Mrs H invested in as part of their ISA in 2007. Its worth noting that this has 
never formed part of the complaint so I wont consider this further. The complaint was about 
the advice specifically received in 2005, 2006 and 2008 as submitted by Mr and Mrs H to 
both Skipton and this service. The complaint listed the specific advice and investments they 
wanted to complain about so any advice in 2007 hasnt formed part of the complaint that was 
referred to this service.
The other fact sheet is for a fund that was previously the Investec Cautious Managed Fund. 
However, Mr and Mrs H were advised to invest in this fund in 2005. The fact sheet from the 
fund (which has a new name) is from 2022 and I dont think its a reliable source of what the 
fund was made up of from the time. Although its important to note that Mr and Mrs H were 
considered medium (low) risk investors, and Id expect there to be some level of equities in 
the fund theyd invested in to generate the return they were looking for.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the advice given to Mr and Mrs H in 2005, 2006 and 2008 
was unsuitable for their circumstances. And Ive not seen any additional evidence from Mr 
and Mrs H which leads me to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman