DRN-3932179
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Cards Ltd (NewDay) defaulted his account and marked his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr M is very ill and is represented by his wife, Mrs M. But I will refer to Mr M as the
complainant in this provisional decision.
Mr M had a branded credit card supplied by NewDay. In February 2021, the limit was £3,150
and the balance was £2,927. Payments were up to date and were made by direct debit.
Because of Mr Ms serious illness, Mrs M called NewDay on 5 February 2021 to ask for help
 as he could no longer afford to make the minimum payments, which were about £120 per
month. A payment hold was agreed with no payments, interest, or fees. No payments were
made in March 2021, April 2021, or May 2021. On 5 February 2021, NewDay wrote to Mr M
to say the monthly direct debit had been cancelled. On 16 April 2021, NewDay send a Notice
of Default which asked for payment of £58.56 by 7 May 2021. The account was defaulted in
May 2021 after three missed payments. A total of five missed payments were recorded at
the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Mr M complained. He said that when Mrs M called NewDay on 5 February 2021, they didnt
say the direct debit would be cancelled and therefore he was surprised when payments were
missed as a result; and the account was then defaulted. He said he hadnt received the letter
dated 5 February 2021 which said the direct debit was cancelled. He said that wasnt fair. He
wanted to renew his mortgage and was concerned that higher interest rates would be
applied because of the default.
NewDay said that on the call on 5 February 2021, Mrs M was advised that the account
would fall into arrears if payments werent made and this would affect Mr Ms credit file. The
direct debit was cancelled as a medical hold was placed on the account, and no payments
were needed. They said their call handler advised Mrs M that a default would take six
months to register on Mr Ms credit file. They agreed that Mrs M shouldve been advised that
the direct debit was to be cancelled, and she wasnt. For that, they paid compensation of
£15. NewDay also refunded a £12 overlimit fee. NewDay rejected the rest of Mr M's
complaint.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said NewDay acted reasonably. On the
call on 5 February 2021, NewDay advised Mr M that a statement would be sent every month
which required payment of the minimum balance  1% of the balance outstanding. NewDay
said that missed payments would be advised to the CRAs and arrears would accrue. They
also said a default would usually be recorded if six months payments were missed. A default
would also be recorded if there was a medical write off. She agreed that the cancellation of
the direct debit wasnt mentioned, but NewDay wrote to Mr M twice to say that would
happen. If the letter didnt arrive at Mr Ms address, NewDay couldnt be held responsible for
that. On the call, NewDays call handler said Mr Ms credit file would be affected because of
the payment hold  and he was advised to read the letters that would be sent. 
The call handler also said that missed payments would be noted at the CRAs, and a default 
would be noted on Mr Ms credit file after six missed payments. Five payments were then 
missed (between March 2021 and July 2021). A Notice of Default was sent on 7 May 2021. 
The next payment received was £163.14 on 2 August 2021.
Mr M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a first provisional decision where I said:
This is a finely balanced provisional decision, with valid arguments on both sides. But on
balance, given the content of the call on 5 February 2021 (which I have closely listened to), I
believe that NewDay should amend Mr Ms credit file and remove the default; but leave in
place the missed payments that are recorded.
I can see that NewDay agreed a payment hold during the call on 5 February 2021. Because
of Mr Ms serious illness, he couldnt afford to make the minimum payments any longer.
Interest and fees were set to zero and no payments were required. I dont dispute that
NewDay sent to Mr M most of the necessary paperwork to advise him what was going on; on
5 February 2021, they sent a letter to say that the direct debit was cancelled. NewDay told
us this was sent twice (although Im not sure why that would be). Mr M has said he wasnt
aware that the direct debit was to be cancelled  but since, on the call, it was agreed that
payments would stop, it was clearly necessary to stop the direct debit  otherwise payments
would still be made. So  I dont think that the issue of the stopped direct debit is very
relevant here.
NewDay sent statements which showed no payments were made between March 2021 and
July 2021. But  each statement showed that a minimum payment was due and arrears
were building up as a result  in July 2021, the arrears were £134.13. This was part of what
was agreed with Mr M on the call  that statements would still be generated and arrears
would build up. NewDay also sent a Notice of Default on 16 April 2021 which asked that a
payment of £58.56 was made by 7 May 2021  and it wasnt.
But for me, it is the content of the call on 5 February 2021, which is important and this, taken
with the context of what happened, persuade me that Mr Ms complaint is upheld.
On the call, Mrs M (representing Mr M) explained that Mr M was seriously ill and as a result, 
the payments couldnt be made. Mrs M was clearly looking for guidance and help  and was
dealing with the effect of Mr Ms illness as regards advising NewDay (and other lenders) for
the first time. I think its reasonable therefore to say that she was depending on NewDay to
give her the right information on the call.
A payment hold was agreed with no payments, and zero interest and fees. The call handler
also discussed with Mrs M the possibility of a medical write off  and explained to her the
process for applying for that. While initially, the call handler proposed a payment hold for 12
months, it was agreed that it would be put in place for three months  in order that she could 
consider Mr Ms situation and get the documents together to apply for a medical write off.
Mrs M was given the clear direction that while missed payments would be notified to the 
CRAs, a default would not be made during the three-month period of the hold.
NewDays call handler said that interest and fees would be stopped, and Mr Ms credit file
would be impacted, and said he should read the letters that were sent  that was correct
and what we would expect to hear. But he went on for the time being (well) put a hold onfor now but going forward you can ask for a medical write off. Mr M was clearly concerned
about the effect on Mr Ms credit file and asked about it several times. I heard the call
handler say that arrears will build, minimum payments are still required  which was also
correct. But he also said (in response to a further question from Mrs M about the effect on
the credit file I dont think there is anything that can happen but will check. He then said
(after checking) (the) hold will not affect your credit file. What affects your credit file is
statements generated (which say) minimum payments duecredit file could potentially say
payments missed. So, to that extent  he said that missed payments would be advised to
the CRAs  which was correct.
But he then went on to say a default would be added after six months of missed
paymentsso it takes a while for default to be appliedthe medical hold will not affect your
credit fileits just when the minimum payments get generateddefault gets registered after
six months of missed payments.
Mrs M then asked so if we stop it (the payments) for four months, then it wont go on the
credit file?..and we can then consider what to do on the medical write off(it will) give us
time to get medical evidence together The call handler replied yes, you can put on a
three/four month hold only.
Mrs M asked again if we put it on hold for four months wont it affect credit file?. The call
handler said, if you put it on for three months to give you time to get the medical evidence to
us.
Mrs M asked you say it takes six months (to default)so hold for four months? The call
handler replied, credit file will show missed payments (but) default will be added at the six-
month mark. He went on the CRAs will be advised of missed payments but thats not a
default.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the
consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put
an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. And so  NewDay
could register a default after three missed payments  which is what they did.
But for me - its clear that while Mrs M was advised that missed payments would be advised
to Mr Ms credit file, she was told that a default might only happen after six months  and so
she agreed to a three month hold on that basis. And in this case, a default was registered 
after three months of missed payments  which is not what NewDays call handler said
would happen.
Against this, I must consider the letters that NewDay sent to Mr M. I noted that a letter was
not sent to Mr M to confirm the detail and terms of the payment hold  if such a letter had
been sent, it might well have set out the effect on his credit file and the potential for default.
The Notice of Default in April 2021 said that if the payment wasnt made Well terminate
your credit agreement with us, close your credit card account and ask you to pay the full
account balance immediately. If we terminate your credit agreement, we may sell your
account to a third party. We will also share details of the status of your account with credit
reference agencies which may make it harder for you to get credit in the future. So  while
the letter was correct and was in the format laid down by the regulators and said that
information would be sent to the CRAs, it didnt say a default would, or could follow. Mr M
could well have considered that it referred to missed payments rather than default  given
what he was told on the call in February 2021.It looks like once Mr M realised what had happened, he paid the NewDay account up to date
in August 2021  with a payment of £161.14. So, Im persuaded that its likely that had he
been aware of the potential for default, he couldve avoided that by paying in enough money
in preceding months.
And so  on balance, and in the circumstances of this complaint, I am persuaded that the
default should be removed from Mr Ms credit file. But  as the statements and the contents
of the call were clear that there would be missed payments accruing; and the call said they
would be advised to the CRAs, its reasonable that the five missed payments should remain
on Mr Ms credit file. While it is for individual lenders to interpret what they see on a
customers credit file, it is fair to say that a small number of missed payments arent seen as
serious as a full default  and so Mr M should be aware of that.
Responses to the first provisional decision:
NewDay said theyd realised that a full default hadnt been registered. But missed payment
markers had been advised to the CRAs.
Mrs M (on behalf of Mr M) argued strongly that the missed payment markers should be
removed - because NewDay werent clear that the direct debit would be cancelled, and it
was. In support, she described, in detail, the deteriorating health of her husband during the
period between February 2021 and June 2021. This left him in a vulnerable position, and
unable to deal with financial matters.
I considered these comments and issued a second provisional decision:
I said in the first provisional decision that the default should be removed. NewDay have now
told us that in fact a default wasnt registered  but that contradicts what they told us before.
So  I am still proposing to issue a decision which ensures that if there is a default on Mr Ms
credit file, it is removed.
I have thought about what Mrs M has said to us. She is arguing that all missed payment
markers should also be removed. I looked at this again and there were five missed payment 
markers added to Mr Ms credit file in 2021. But the payment hold agreed by NewDay for the
months of March 2021 to May 2021 was for three months. It seems reasonable to me that
the missed payment markers must remain in place for those months. Even though Mr M
wasnt told on the phone call that the direct debit would be cancelled  he was advised of
that in a letter sent in February 2021. And its also clear that for payments to be suspended
for three months  the direct debit had to be cancelled. I dont believe there was any other 
way of doing that. That had to be part of the payment hold that NewDay agreed.
But because the direct debit was cancelled, what then happened was that a further two
months payments were missed  beyond the payment hold period. And so, for me, and with
reference to Mr Ms vulnerability - it seems unreasonable that Mr Ms credit file should be so
marked for those two months. And as the provisional decision said, he paid off the arrears in
August 2021  after he realised what had happened. And so  I propose that two months 
missed payment markers are removed but the three markers for the period of the payment 
hold must remain in place.
Responses to the second provisional decision:
New Day didnt respond. Mrs M (for Mr M) did  she reiterated her previous points  that she 
and her husband were in a poor state of health and were vulnerable; and she wasnt advised 
the direct debit would be cancelled. But  she said she reluctantly accepted the provisional 
decision.I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs M (for Mr M) accepted the provisional decision, and NewDay didnt respond, my final 
decision is as set out in the second provisional decision.
Putting things right
Therefore  - NewDay Cards Ltd must:
- Ensure that no default was registered on Mr Ms credit file; and if there was, remove it.
- Remove two missed payment markers from Mr Ms credit file  the months of June 2021 
and July 2021.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. NewDay Cards Ltd must:
- Ensure that no default was registered on Mr Ms credit file; and if there was, remove it.
- Remove two missed payment markers from Mr Ms credit file  the months of June 2021 
and July 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman