DRN-4048901
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Around May 2022, Mr M was approached by a scammer claiming to offer a cryptocurrency 
investment opportunity. On the scammers instruction, Mr M made payments from his 
Revolut account to two cryptocurrency wallets he was told to set up. From there, the funds 
were moved on to the supposed trading platform. 
Mr M subsequently realised it was a scam as he couldnt withdraw any funds, and the 
advisor stopped answering his calls. Supported by a professional representative, he 
complained to Revolut that it had failed to do enough to protect him from the scam. Revolut 
didnt agree it was liable for his loss.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She didnt think Revolut had cause to suspect Mr M was at risk from 
fraud at the time. Nor did she think it could have recovered the payments.
This case has been passed to me as Mr M has appealed the investigators view. In 
summary, he says Revolut should have identified the risk as the payments looked 
suspicious. And it should have been aware of these types of cryptocurrency scams, which 
often involve funds being sent via cryptocurrency wallets.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Revolut is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that Mr M 
was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So the 
starting position is that he is liable for them. 
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take 
additional steps before processing a payment. Such as when the payment is 
significantly unusual or uncharacteristic when compared to the normal use of the 
account. 
I do appreciate the point raised by Mr M that the scam payments  ranging from £750 
to £3,000  were higher than some of his usual account use. But I do not consider 
them so significantly high, or otherwise unusual, that Revolut ought to have been 
concerned about fraud. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring 
minimal disruption to legitimate payments. Here, Im conscious there were a few 
cryptocurrency-related transactions on the account in the months leading up to the 
scam. Although for smaller amount, they made the merchants paid, and the nature of 
the scam payments, appear less suspicious. 
Revolut has a duty of care to its customers. And at the time of these payments I 
would expect it to be aware of, and monitoring for, the type of scam Mr M fell victim 
to. The pattern of payments being made to a cryptocurrency wallet and then being 
lost to a scam was well-established. But Im also mindful that Revolut is an EMI, not a 
bank. I think that has a bearing on what level of obligation it has to intervene.
Having carefully considered the circumstances, Im not persuaded its fair to hold 
Revolut at fault for not intervening here. I do not think the payments looked so 
concerning that it ought to have realised Mr M was at risk from fraud solely based on 
the account activity. The higher value payments came a few days he had already 
paid £750 to a cryptocurrency wallet. So it didnt appear Mr M was being put under 
urgent pressure, as he had time to consider what to do in between the payments. 
While Mr M has raised that English isnt his first language, I dont think that has a 
bearing here on whether, based on the payment activity, Revolut ought to have been 
concerned about fraud. 
Id also point out that, while reference has been made to the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, Revolut is not a signatory. 
Furthermore, the code doesnt apply to card payments, which these were. Nor does it 
apply to me-to-me payments  and the payments went to wallets in Mr Ms name. So 
the CRM code isnt relevant to this complaint. 
The payments were made by debit card, so are covered by the chargeback scheme. 
This is set, and can be ultimately arbitrated by, the card scheme provider  to settle 
disputes between consumers and merchants. As the scheme is voluntary, Revolut is 
not obliged to raise a chargeback claim. But we would consider it good practice to do 
so if, in line with the scheme rules, the claim was likely to succeed. 
A chargeback claim can only be considered against the merchant paid directly. Here, 
the funds were sent to legitimate cryptocurrency merchants, who provided the 
expected service by loading the funds in line with the payment requests. It is the 
scammer, who the funds were subsequently transferred on to, who breached Mr Ms 
expectations. As such, I do not think chargeback claims for these payments would 
have succeeded. And so I dont think it was wrong or unfair that Revolut didnt pursue 
these claims further. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M, who has been the victim of a cruel 
and sophisticated scam. But I do not think his loss is attributable to an error by 
Revolut. And so I do not consider it fair to direct Revolut to refund Mr M, or otherwise 
compensate him in relation to this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman