DRN-3055764
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy online through TICORP in 
August 2019 with the cover due to start in October 2019. In February 2020, Mrs M contacted 
TICORP to declare further medical conditions and an additional premium was paid.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs M had to return home early from an overseas trip due to the 
ongoing situation with the Coronavirus pandemic and incurred additional costs to do so. 
They were advised that their claim for these additional costs wouldnt be covered as they 
had not taken out the Travel Disruption Extension (TDE) cover option, under which cover 
was provided for certain claims arising from the pandemic.
Mr and Mrs M made a complaint to TICORP as they said they were not made aware of the 
additional cover options when they took out the policy. They also said that TICORP should 
have told them about the additional options when Mrs M contacted them in February 2020. 
TICORP said that Mr and Mrs M had taken out the policy online and the option to take out 
the TDE cover was made available to them during the sales process. And it said it didnt 
have to explain the additional cover options when the amendment to the policy was made. 
So, it didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that TICORP 
had provided Mr and Mrs M with all the relevant information they needed to decide if the 
policy was right for them, including details of the additional cover, such as TDE. And so, she 
said that TICORP had done everything she would expect it to have done.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. They said that the extraordinary 
context of a global pandemic must place extra responsibility on such a provider to equip their 
customers with the correct advice. They also said the policy terms and conditions provided 
to them after the sale were unclear and misleading about the purchase of additional cover 
options.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs M. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Mr and Mrs M originally applied for their travel insurance policy online. This means theres 
no evidence TICORP gave them any advice about whether they should take it out. So, it 
didnt need to check it was suitable for their needs. But it did need to give them enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so they could decide if it was right 
for them. 
Mr and Mrs M have said it wasnt made clear to them that they could have this additional 
cover. TICORP has provided an example of the relevant page from the website which it says 
Mr and Mrs M would have seen as part of the journey when taking out the policy. This page 
shows a list of additional cover options available to take out, along with the relevant cost, 
and this includes TDE cover.
 
There is an information icon for each option and TICORP has explained that this provided 
more details about the key elements of the cover offered. In the case of TDE option, the 
summary explained that this provided additional cover for certain costs as follows:
Cancellation and curtailment up to £5,000 (dependant on cover level) if the World 
Health Organisation (WHO) or Foreign Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against 
all travel/all but essential travel or evacuation
Extended travel delay and enforced stay up to £1,000
Additional overseas accommodation and enforced stay up to £1,000 due to a terrorist 
event, fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, tsunami, landslide, avalanche, volcanic 
eruption, hurricane, storm
an outbreak of food poisoning or an infectious disease affecting your accommodation 
or resort.
Based on the information that was provided on the website, Im persuaded that the option to 
purchase the additional cover was made available to Mr and Mrs M and that the key details 
of the additional cover were made clear. So, Im therefore satisfied that TICORP did provide 
Mr and Mrs M with enough information at the time of the sale for them to decide if the policy 
was right for them.
Following the sale, TICORP provided Mr and Mrs M with the relevant policy wording 
containing the terms and conditions, which also included details of the TDE cover. And Im of 
the opinion that the policy wording was clear about the cover they had purchased. Mr and 
Mrs M would then have had a 14 day cooling off period in which to read through the cover 
and decide if this gave them the protection they wanted  or they could cancel and obtain a 
full refund. Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M say TICORP should have informed them of the TDE cover when Mrs M 
contacted it to declare medical conditions in February 2020. They say TICORP should have 
extra responsibility in this regard especially in the context of a global pandemic. And they 
have commented that it isnt clear in the policy wording when you could purchase the TDE 
cover option. So, they think this document is misleading.
While I appreciate their point of view, this was not an advised sale and so TICORP wasnt 
under any obligation to check the suitability of the insurance cover for Mr and Mrs M  
whether at the point of taking out the policy or at any other point of contact. And having 
checked the policy wording, it is clear that the TDE was an additional cover option. If they 
wanted this cover but werent sure if they could take this out after the initial purchase, I would have expected them to have contacted TICORP. So, these points dont alter my 
outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman