DRN-3028915
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
initially in 2002. Mrs and Mr D say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), mis-sold them this 
PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to YBS throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and they said they didnt think 
we should uphold it. Mrs and Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
 they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and 
arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me. When considering what is fair and reasonable, 
I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in making a decision 
about Mrs and Mr Ds complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
below.
I think it was clear enough at the time of this sale in 2002 that Mrs and Mr D didnt have to 
take out the PPI if they didnt want to. I say this because theres plenty of evidence of them 
knowing the policy was optional. In my view they also engaged in the sale process and the 
subsequent oversight of the cover they purchased. 
For example, I see they indicated on their original mortgage application that they were 
interested in PPI. They then completed a separate form to get the PPI where they indicated 
the level of cover they wanted. Mrs and Mr D were also sent a letter confirming all these 
matters including how much the policy was going to cost. This was all set out again on their 
Mortgage Offer, a document I feel Mrs and Mr D would have wanted to read carefully. 
Finally, I see they amended the PPI in 2004 by dropping Mrs D from the PPI, leaving only 
Mr D named on the policy.
In my view, all this represents very strong evidence that Mrs and Mr D consented to 
mortgage protection and that they bought  and then later varied  the PPI because to suit 
their joint requirements.
Its probable YBS recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr D as part of an advised sale. It 
therefore had a duty to check that the PPI was right for them. Ive considered this with care 
and Im satisfied the evidence about Mrs and Mr Ds circumstances of the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For instance, they appear to 
have been eligible for the PPI, and both had been continuously employed as per the 
eligibility rules. I see weve previously explained that even though Mrs D had recently 
changed jobs, there was evidence she hadnt stopped working. Also, although they each 
may have had some sick pay with their jobs, Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI 
wasnt suitable. Theirs was a mortgage secured against their home and the PPI could have 
paid out a monthly sum for up to a year if successfully claimed on. I think the original price of 
around £24 per month was affordable for them
I also dont think there was anything obvious about their occupations which would have 
made it difficult for them to make a successful claim on the policy. Their representative told 
us about a previous medical matter Mrs D had in 1996, but it gave few details. This appears 
to have been six years before the PPI sale and the medical condition doesnt appear one 
which think would have affected their ability to later claim for most things, albeit I completely 
accept it would have been a concern at the time. 
I also considered their other financial means. The representative said both Mrs and Mr D 
had what appears to me to be generous death in service protection. Again, no details or 
evidence was provided, but in any event, this type of cover isnt in conflict with having 
protection against losing your job  it covers a different eventuality.
Overall, I therefore think the PPI was suitable and it being recommended to them wasnt 
unreasonable.  
Its certainly possible the information YBS gave to Mrs and Mr D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been, particularly around the policy rules and exclusions. However, in 
my view, this doesnt alter my overall decision because the sale documents do look quite 
comprehensive to me in respect of who was covered, what for and the costs involved. There 
is very strong evidence they chose to take the PPI out and it looks like they specifically 
wanted this type of cover, with both initially being covered, and then only Mr D after 2004. 
Accepting certain aspects could have been clearer, the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what 
they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were probably given at 
the point of sale. Because of this I dont think Mrs and Mr D would have declined the cover, 
even if YBS could have done more or explained things a little better in some areas.
Mrs and Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be other general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ds individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. I have thought carefully about all these things and how they might apply in Mrs 
and Mr Ds case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr D, but this means Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have 
to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments, I do not uphold Mrs and Mr Ds 
complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman