DRN-3084035
The complaint
Mrs L complains about QIC Europe Ltds handling of a claim under her home building 
insurance.
What happened
A ceramic floor tile in Mrs Ls living room was damaged when something was accidently 
dropped onto it. She made a claim to QIC and it sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The 
surveyor reported the tiled floor covering in the living room needed replacing. He says as the 
flooring continues unbroken through the kitchen, hall and W.C all of this will need replacing. 
The surveyors report says underfloor heating is in place beneath the tiles. This will be 
damaged when the tiles are removed and will also need replacing. Mrs L says the surveyor 
told her QIC would try and offer a repair, but because of where the tile is, he said this wasnt 
advisable.
QIC says it instructed a surveyor to inspect and gather photos of the damage. The proposed 
scope of works was then referred to its in-house surveying team for review. It determined a 
repair of the damaged tile was possible using a specialist floor finishing company. QIC says 
this approach is in line with the policy terms. If the repair should fail it says it would then 
review replacement costs. 
Mrs L was unhappy with QICs response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought QIC had been fair and was 
acting in accordance with the policy terms in proposing a repair. He said if the repair failed or 
was not of an acceptable standard, it was correct that QIC reconsidered the claim. 
Mrs L was unhappy with this outcome and requested for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold the complaint, which I understand will come as 
a disappointment to Mrs L. But I will explain why I think this it fair. 
There is no dispute from QIC that the claim should be accepted as an insured event. 
Turning to the policy terms and conditions. The relevant terms here are detailed in the 
section entitled Settling claims under buildings covers. The policy terms say:
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options:
i) We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out 
the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
ii)We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use 
our preferred contractor. 
And: 
Repair guarantee: All repairs carried out by our approved suppliers as a result of an insured 
claim under this section of your policy are guaranteed for 12 months. 
The surveyors report does state that the tile floor in the living room, kitchen, hallway and 
W.C should be replaced. I also note Mrs Ls recollection of the conversation she had with the 
surveyor. I can understand why she was concerned about QICs approach to carry out a 
repair, when considering the surveyors comments.    
That said I dont think QIC behaved unreasonably in referring the claim to its in-house 
surveyors to allow consideration of the photos and the surveyors report. 
Mrs L highlights that QICs consideration wasnt based on a site visit. She says the surveyor 
made his recommendation based on viewing the damage in person, as opposed to just 
looking at photos. 
I have thought about this point. A number of photos were taken of Mrs Ls home. These 
include several different images of the damaged tile from various angles and distances, as 
well as other images showing the tiles throughout the ground floor. The damage to the tile is 
clearly visible in these photos, as are all the rooms where these tiles are in place. 
Although I acknowledge the point being made, I think it was possible for QICs in-house 
team to reach an informed decision based on this information. 
Having accepted the claim, the expectation is for QIC to place Mrs L back in the position she 
was in before the damage occurred. The terms of the policy confirm the company will decide 
how best to achieve this. And the available options include carrying out a repair. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ls view that a repair will mean an inferior result to replacing the floor in 
its entirety. I also note her more recent comments that the tile is crumbling away and has 
become a trip hazard. In addition, she says she doesnt use the underfloor heating, so this 
neednt be replaced.   
I have considered these points, but I think the suggested approach to carry out a repair is 
reasonable when considering the policy terms. The expectation is that the repair should be 
effective and long lasting. If it isnt Mrs L can raise this with QIC for its surveying team to 
inspect and take the necessary action to remedy any justified concerns.   
In summary I think QIC has treated Mrs L fairly in relying on the terms of its policy and 
proposing a repair of the damaged tile. If this proves inadequate the company will need to 
reconsider this approach. But I dont think its unreasonable to attempt to repair the damage 
in the circumstances described. So, I cant reasonably ask QIC to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman