DRN-3476831
The complaint
Mr F and Ms S complain Fairmead Insurance Limited has unfairly declined their claim under 
their home insurance policy. 
For ease, any reference to Fairmead includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr F and Ms S have a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Fairmead. 
In August 2021, they tried to claim on the policy for items stolen from their son. This 
included a mobile phone, ear bud speakers and a jacket.
Fairmead agreed to cover the ear buds but said the other items were not covered 
because personal possession cover had not been selected.  
Ms S complained that the renewal documentation shed received was misleading as 
it said cover was provided for personal possessions away from the home. 
She brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it - she said 
the policy literature made it clear that the policy document and schedule should be 
read together as they contain the full terms and conditions and details of Mr F and 
Ms S cover. And these showed that personal possession cover hadnt been chosen.
Ms S remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. The policy document is 
the starting point as this sets out the terms and conditions.  Under important information it 
says:
the following elements form the contract between You and the Insurer, please read 
them and keep them safe: Your policy wording; information contained on Your 
statement of Facts documents issued by Us; Your Schedule and any Endorsements 
shown on it; any changes to Your Home Insurance Policy contacted in notices issued 
by Us at renewal.
So, Im satisfied the policy document made it clear Mr F and Ms S would need to read the 
aforementioned documents to understand the level of cover provided to them.  
Ms S has said the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which she received at 
renewal time led her to believe personal possessions were included because its listed under 
what is insured.  While I acknowledge Ms S point, the IPID also states that complete pre-
contractual and contractual information on the product is provided in the full policy 
documentation. So, I think Fairmead made it clear the IPID shouldnt be read in isolation. 
And Im satisfied it brought to Mr F and Ms S attention that theyd need to read the 
additional policy documentation. 
I understand Ms S thinks its unfair to ask consumers to look for the information but 
referring consumers to other policy documentation to ensure theyre familiar with the detail of 
their specific insurance product is common practice. So, I dont think Fairmead has treated 
them unfairly in asking them to do so.
For completeness, Ive looked at the statement of fact and can see that personal 
possessions werent included. Likewise, the schedule from when the policy renewed in 
November 2020 shows personal possessions cover was not selected. So, Im satisfied there 
wasnt cover in respect of this. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr F and Ms S, but I hope for the reasons set out above 
they understand why I wont be asking Fairmead to accept the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman