DRN-2416789
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Platinum 
account in March 2008. Mr G says that he was told he had to agree to the account to get an 
overdraft. He says he was not told that fee-free accounts were also available. Mr G says that 
the Platinum account was unsuitable and that he has not used the benefits.
Mr G has also said that the he tried to downgrade his account to a fee-free account but says 
Lloyds refused to do so. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered what Mr G and Lloyds had said and provided and she 
concluded that the account had not been mis-sold. She was also unable to see that Lloyds 
had refused to downgrade the Platinum account.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive taken this into account when considering Mr Gs complaint.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute, as they are here, I 
have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on everything that is 
available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr G was given a fair choice in 
choosing to take out his packaged bank account.
Mr G says that Lloyds didnt tell him that fee-free accounts were available. But Mr G has said 
that he held a fee-free account before the Platinum account was sold to him. And I can see 
he later went on to open a joint fee-free account after hed agreed to the Platinum account. 
So overall, I think Mr G was more likely than not aware that fee-free accounts were available 
when he agreed to the Platinum account.
Mr G says that he was led to believe that he had to agree to the Platinum account to get an 
overdraft. But looking at his bank statements, I can see that the agreed overdraft limit was 
£250 when the account was sold to him. And the Platinum account offered a charge-free and 
interest-free overdraft facility of £250 at the time. So bearing in mind that I think Mr G was 
aware fee-free accounts were available, I think its more likely Mr G agreed to the Platinum 
account in part, because of the overdraft benefit it provided, rather than because he thought 
he had no choice but to agree to it. 
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr G. This meant it had to make sure it was 
appropriate for his circumstances at the time. 
At the time, the account cost £17 per month, although I can see Mr G received a discount 
and paid £10 for the first six months. And I think this mayve been a factor in Mr G agreeing 
to the account. The account provided a range of benefits including Worldwide travel 
insurance for him and a partner, which came with the option of family cover or winter sports 
cover  Mr G chose the latter. It also provided other benefits such as access to airport 
lounges, preferential charges when using the debit card abroad, mobile insurance, 
breakdown cover and card protection.
Mr G has said that he regularly travelled worldwide and took part in winter sports cover. I can 
see that Mr G had opted to include winter sports cover and he later called the travel insurer 
specifically about the winter sports cover in 2011. So it was clearly important to him that any 
travel insurance included this cover. 
Mr G has mentioned that he was told, during the call with the insurer in 2011, that he did not 
have winter sports cover. But, as this complaint is against Lloyds and not the insurer, I cant 
comment on what the insurer may or may not have said to him and whether what he was 
told was correct.
In addition to the winter sports cover that the account provided, its clear that Mr G also 
wanted an overdraft and he applied for a £250 arranged overdraft facility  which matched 
the overdraft benefit that the account offered at the time. So overall, I think Lloydss 
recommendation to Mr G that he open a Platinum account was not unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Afterall, it was the cheapest packaged account Lloyds offered that included 
worldwide travel insurance which also included winter sports cover. 
I appreciate that Mr G may not have ended up using or claiming on the benefits provided by 
the account. But this doesnt mean he didnt have a need for those products  at least 
initially when it was sold to him. And although Mr G may not have needed all of the benefits 
that came with the account, the account was sold as a package, so Mr G was unable to pick 
and choose what it came with. Therefore, even if Mr G didnt need all of the Platinum 
account benefits, this doesnt necessarily mean that it was mis-sold either. 
As well as making sure it was right for Mr G, Lloyds also had to give Mr G important 
information about the account. Based on what Ive seen, its apparent that Mr G, at the very 
least, had an awareness of the account costs and some of the benefits it provided. And 
although its possible that Lloyds didnt give Mr G all of the information about the account 
that it shouldve, Ive not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to it, had he been given even more information about the account.
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr G may now regret agreeing to the 
account or think its been poor value for money. But that does not mean that Lloyds did 
anything wrong by selling him the account when it did. And from everything Ive seen, Im 
unable to conclude that the Platinum account was mis-sold.
Finally Mr G says he tried downgrading his account but was unable to do so. Having looked 
into this, unfortunately Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr G was prevented from 
downgrading his Platinum account by Lloyds. Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of a call recording when it delivered the outcome of 
his complaint in June 2017. In that call Mr G did ask if his account will be downgraded and 
he was told it would not be automatically downgraded as Lloyds had not found that the 
account was mis-sold. It was then explained that if he wanted to downgrade the account, 
hed need to call a downgrade telephone number. And despite being provided with the 
numbers for the downgrade line in 2017, I cant see that he did anything further until May 
2019 when he chose to pursue his complaint again and did then go on to downgrade his 
account. 
So based on what evidence that is available in this complaint, I can see that Lloyds gave Mr 
G information about how to downgrade his account, if he wanted to. And I cant reasonably 
conclude that Lloyds has refused to downgrade the Platinum account in this case.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Mr Gs Platinum account was mis-sold. 
And I am unable to conclude that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly prevented Mr G from downgrading 
his Platinum account to a fee-free account. I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman