DRN-3822374
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for the loss of his motorbike. 
What happened
Mr Ws bike was damaged in an accident and he called Advantage to make a claim. 
Advantage wrongly thought Mr W had comprehensive insurance when he had third party, 
fire and theft cover only. Mr Ws bike had been recovered to a storage yard and Advantage 
thought it would be a total loss. It then instructed its salvage agent to recover the bike. 
The agent obtained the bikes documents from Mr W and sent them to DVLA to change 
ownership. Advantage then told the agent Mr W had third party, fire and theft cover and the 
instruction was cancelled. But the DVLA then wrote to Mr W to say that he was no longer the 
bikes owner. 
The storage yard then told Mr W that his bike was ready for collection. But Mr W told 
Advantage that he couldnt collect it as he wasnt the bikes registered owner. Advantage 
noted that Mr W would need to contact DVLA and the police about this. The storage yard 
then disposed of the bike. And, after Mr W complained, Advantage said it wouldnt pay Mr W 
a settlement for his loss.
Our Investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
Advantage had made an error in instructing the salvage agent to collect the bike from 
storage, which led to the change of ownership being made. Mr W couldnt then collect his 
bike from storage. They thought Advantage hadnt told Mr W he would need to contact the 
police and the DVLA. To put things right, they thought Advantage should reimburse Mr W for 
the bikes salvage value, with interest, and pay him £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Mr W replied that he wanted his bike returned or payment of its value following the accident. 
Advantage replied that Mr W had made the claim incorrectly and hadnt responded to the 
storage yards request to remove his bike. It said Mr W would have been responsible for the 
bikes storage charges. So it thought Mr Ws position hadnt been made any worse. 
Advantage asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage thought Mr W had made the initial mistake by making a claim on his policy. But I 
dont agree. I think Mr W was required to notify Advantage of the accident, which he did. And 
Im satisfied that Advantage then made the error of proceeding with a claim as if Mr W had 
comprehensive cover. 
This led to the salvage agent being instructed to recover the bike and the change of 
ownership being notified to DVLA. Mr W correctly brought this to Advantages attention. He 
wouldnt be able to retrieve his bike as he was no longer the bikes registered owner and 
keeper. Advantage noted that Mr W would need to contact DVLA and the police to resolve 
the ownership issue. But it didnt tell Mr W this. Im satisfied that this was a further error 
made by Advantage. 
When Mr W later contacted the salvage agent, it said it would take steps with the DVLA to 
transfer ownership back to Mr W. I cant see why Advantage wasnt able to instruct it to do 
this sooner when the error was spotted. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Im satisfied Advantage has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
Mr W wanted his bike returned, but thats not possible as it has been disposed of. He also 
asked for the bikes post-accident value. But the evidence Ive seen shows that would be the 
bikes salvage value. 
Advantages engineers said, based on the damage report, the bike was most likely to be a 
Category B total loss and its salvage value was £82.90. And I think Advantages errors 
deprived Mr W of this amount. 
Advantage said that Mr B had benefited because the charge for the police recovery was 
£150 and the storage charges from the start of the claim to the police releasing the bike 
were £580. Advantage thought Mr W had benefited because its salvage agent had paid 
these charges and it thought Mr W would be unlikely to have paid them.
I can understand Advantages argument. But I dont think this is fair or reasonable as 
Advantages errors deprived Mr W of the opportunity to take the decision of whether or not to 
retrieve his bike. 
And so, to restore Mr Ws position, I think Advantage should make good his loss, which is 
the salvage value of his bike. And, as Mr W has been without his money for some time, I 
think Advantage should reasonably add interest to this amount. Our Investigators thought 
Advantage should also pay Mr W £150 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter 
has caused him. I think thats fair and reasonable for the level of impact caused, in keeping 
with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr W £82.90, the bikes salvage value, adding interest at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of salvage to the date of payment.
2. Pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman