DRN-4209418
The complaint
Mr B complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
made under his home insurance policy.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr B has home insurance underwritten by RSA. This covers his homes buildings and 
contents, amongst other things.
Mr B made a claim in April 2022 after he noticed that an outbuilding at his home was 
dropping on one side and had a leaking roof.
RSA appointed loss adjusters to handle the claim  and they sent surveyors to inspect the 
outbuilding in April 2022 and then again in May.
RSA then declined the claim. Mr B says he was told this was because the issues with the 
outbuilding were due to settlement rather that subsidence and so werent covered by the 
policy.
Mr B then commissioned his own surveyor to inspect the outbuilding. They concluded that 
the issues were in fact caused by subsidence, although they noted the foundations of the 
outbuilding were too shallow.
RSA considered Mr Bs surveyors report but maintained their decision to decline the claim 
was correct given that the issues were primarily caused by faulty workmanship.
Mr B complained to RSA. They admitted that the claim had been handled poorly by their loss 
adjuster and offered Mr B £500 in compensation for his trouble and upset. But they said their 
decision to decline the claim had been correct.
Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He says the repairs to 
the outbuilding will cost around £25,000 and he wants RSA to pay for those repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy says that RSA will cover damage caused by subsidence, but not where its 
caused by faulty workmanship.
Mr Bs own surveyors report quite unequivocally says that the foundations of the outbuilding 
should be around two metres deep, whereas they are in fact 0.4 metres deep.
When he was asked about this, Mr B said hed had the outbuilding built himself after he 
bought the property. Mr B is a builder and property developer. 
In relation to the foundations, he said hed specified a floating slab with a shallow perimeter 
detail. And he added they (the foundations) should have been deeper.
He also noted that the subsidence section of the policy had an exclusion relating to faulty 
workmanship, but the accidental damage section had an exclusion relating to faulty 
workmanship and poor design.
His point is that the issue with the outbuildings is down to poor design, not faulty 
workmanship. Poor design is not excluded under the subsidence cover section of the policy. 
And that must be intentional given that it is excluded in other sections of the policy.
I know this will disappoint Mr B but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
First, his own surveyor says the outbuilding is subsiding but only because the foundations 
are far too shallow. The primary cause of the issue then is not subsidence. 
Subsidence is one of the insured events covered under the policy. But this problem is not 
primarily caused by subsidence. And its not caused by any of the other listed insured events 
either. So, the damage isnt covered.
Second, Mr B originally said that there was no design for the outbuilding, it was a simple 
building implemented on site. Mr B says there are no plans or specification for the building at 
all. If we take that at face value, then the issue with the foundations cant be one of poor 
design.
Third, there are other conditions in the policy terms which require the policyholder to keep 
their property in good condition and good repair. Theres a strong argument that Mr B failed 
to meet that condition when he built the outbuilding with  by his own admission  
foundations which were too shallow.
Fourth, and possibly most fundamentally, its neither reasonable nor justifiable to expect an 
insurer to pick up the bill for repairs and/or corrections to a building which has been built 
poorly by the policyholder themselves.
RSA have admitted failings in the way the claim was handled. This included the erroneous 
closure of the claim by the loss adjuster, which led to Mr B not being fully updated for a 
period of around five months.
Those failings undoubtedly caused a degree of stress and inconvenience for Mr B. Im 
satisfied that the £500 RSA offered to Mr B is fair and reasonable compensation for his 
trouble and upset in that period of time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 Neil Marshall
Ombudsman