DRN-4126120
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Wakam SA (Wakam) unfairly increased his premiums for his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O took out pet insurance with Wakam in April 2022. When he received his 2023 policy 
renewal notification, the cost had increased significantly. Wakam gave an overview of the
general reasons for the policy price increase but said it couldnt provide a full breakdown of 
its pricing strategy, as it was commercially sensitive information. Mr O wanted a detailed 
explanation of the exact reasons for the increase and complained to Wakam, however it 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr O then referred his complaint to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He considered that Wakam had acted in a fair and reasonable manner when it 
said it couldnt divulge its detailed underwriting criteria to the customer. The investigator 
received detailed underwriting evidence from Wakam. He concluded that it had explained to 
Mr O the reasons for the policy cost increase adequately, and in as much details as it was 
required to. 
As Mr O remained dissatisfied with the outcome of his complaint, the matter has been 
referred to myself to reach a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Wakam acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
in declining to provide Mr O with a detailed explanation of its price increase. I consider that 
its acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and Ill explain the reasoning for this decision.
Turning to Mr Os submission, he complained that his pet insurance policy went up very 
significantly (by 31%) in 2023, even though veterinary surgery prices had only increased by 
1%. He also said the local surgery had said it had processed fewer claims. He also thought 
that inflation was at 1% to 5% so he wanted an explanation for such a significant increase. 
He said that Wakam couldnt explain it and he thought that it was hiding behind an e-mail 
referring to commercially sensitive information. He appreciated the nature of the information, 
however he stressed; I am not commercial competitor nor intend to be, I am a customer 
whos money they take. Mr O said he was also willing to sign a confidentiality agreement.
Mr O considered that Wakam wasnt being transparent in explaining the increase, either 
because it was unable to do so, or because it didnt want customers to see the reasons. He 
thought that the increase when thered been no claims or changes, was unjustified. Mr O 
also said that this was the second increase within 12 months, and he considered the 
increase to be ridiculous and the pricing structure to be discriminatory. He referenced other 
complaints on social media. Mr O thought that Wakam; judge us all by the worst offenders, 
its a form of discrimination. He also didnt think he should be paying for a strangers life 
choices with whom he happened to share a postcode. Finally, he gave Wakam a deadline 
to; put my policy back to the previous years rate or explain in detail how much and why 
youre putting it up before placing the matter on social media and taking Wakam to court.
In conclusion, Mr O said; I genuinely believe they are fleecing customers for profit margins 
and placing the insane increase under inflation. It doesnt align with the market or their 
competitors. They are the only pet insurance company to post such dramatic increases and 
its not only insulting its a modern day Robin Hood.
I now turn to what Wakam has said in response to Mr Os complaint. It said that in 
calculating prices, it undertook regular reviews based on data it collected regarding a wide 
range of factors. It added; From this data, we make adjustments to our pricing to more 
accurately reflect the risk associated with these factors, which include (but are not limited to) 
breeds, age brackets and geographical areas (etc.).  It explained that the pricing 
adjustments were applied to new customers as well as existing customers at renewal. It said 
it was unable to provide a full breakdown of its pricing strategy and rating factors as it 
considered these to be commercially sensitive information. 
As to the factors, with regard to breed and location, Wakam said that it could be that latest 
data showed a higher risk for certain breeds, or general pet-related illnesses in an area, or 
vet fees in the region had increased at a higher rate than inflation. Also, the availability of 
more sophisticated vet treatments affected insurance costs. It further explained that if a 
particular breed had a higher number of claims, it might be moved over to a higher risk 
category. Likewise, if claims for a breed dropped, it might move into a lower risk category. It 
added; Even with breed, it's not just claims for the breed we consider, we also take other 
factors like breed-specific conditions into consideration. It considered it had adequately 
explained some of the general risk factors included in premium calculations. It also explained 
that in purchasing a policy, customers were informed that prices could increase each year 
and would agree a declaration to this effect. 
Wakam said it appreciated that 31% may seem a big uplift for the year. However, it stated 
that the policy had been correctly priced. It remained of the view that its prices were 
competitive within the market, for the level of vet fee cover offered and its excess 
arrangements. It offered to check the details on Mr Os policy to make sure everything was 
up to date, or to talk about other options for cover and excess amounts.
Ive considered all of the above, and Ive also considered the services settled approach to 
pricing strategies in the insurance industry. This recognises that insurers research and refine 
their pricing models and systems and the service doesnt generally consider its reasonable 
for the service to disclose this kind of information. Ive also considered whether there are 
exceptional reasons for departing from this settled approach in the current case, however I 
dont consider that Mr O has demonstrated any such reasons. Also, having viewed Wakams 
pricing structure, Ive seen no evidence that its treated Mr O in a discriminatory manner or 
any differently to other customers. Im therefore satisfied that Mr O has been treated 
consistently with Wakams general approach to pricing and that theres no evidence to 
suggest that Wakams price was based on incorrect information.
I agree that the price increase is high in this case, and I can appreciate that Mr O wishes to 
fully understand Wakams pricing strategy. He wishes to know in particular how exactly 
Wakam has worked out the significant price increase to his own premiums. Unfortunately for 
Mr O however, the way that the insurance industry operates is that it sells a product for the 
price it calculates based on numerous commercial factors and the risk its willing to accept. 
Insurance companies regularly update how they rate risks and rates continually change, and they may measure and predict risk as they see fit. The customer must then decide whether 
s/he wishes to purchase a policy or to seek an alternative product with another provider.
It may sound unfair that an insurer can choose to set the price however it likes, including 
how much profit it may wish to make as well as its appetite for risk. However, the insurance 
market is competitive, and consumers choices are often driven significantly by price. 
Ordinarily consumers have freedom to choose between many insurers and can avoid those 
they feel are too expensive or poor value for money. I note that Mr O purchased a relatively 
comprehensive pet policy, and despite his complaint that Mr O retained this level of cover. 
In summary, insurers arent expected to divulge underwriting information either to customers, 
or competitors. Wakam has however provided the service with this confidential, 
commercially sensitive information to explain how Mr Os price increase was calculated. 
Having seen this information, Im satisfied the price has been calculated correctly based on 
the legitimate factors taken into account by Wakam. I therefore cant say that Wakam 
applied its pricing strategy with regard to Mr O in an unfair or unreasonable manner.
In conclusion, I appreciate that this decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr O, 
however I cant say that Wakam has acted in an unfair or unreasonable way in the manner in 
which its calculated Mr Os premiums. Nor can I say that Wakam acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in declining to share the detailed information regarding the price 
increase of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Os complaint and I dont require 
Wakam SA to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman