DRN-4075773
The complaint
B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded a disputed transaction on its account. 
B is being represented by Mr R who Ill refer to throughout my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 26 September 2022 Mr Rs card was used (via ApplePay) to make a £200 payment 
which he says he didnt authorise. Mr R received a notification to approve his card being 
registered to Apple Pay and he received a message to confirm this had been set up at 
12:07. 
Over an hour later (1:27pm) a payment was attempted at a merchant for the exact remaining 
balance of Mr Rs account. But this was refunded to his account by the merchant. A smaller 
payment of £7.60 was then attempted twenty minutes later and again refunded. The £200 
disputed transaction was then attempted at 1:51pm and was successfully debited from Mr 
Rs account. 
Mr R saw the transactions on his account and reported them within an hour to Monzo. 
Monzo considered the claim but decided it couldnt refund the transactions because it was 
unable to conclude the payments had been authorised by someone else. Unhappy with this 
response Mr R made a complaint but Monzo didnt change its original decision. So, Mr R 
brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that to register the debit 
card with Apple Pay a person wouldve needed Mr Rs card details such as the security 
number on the back of the card and to approve it on the app. But because Mr R had said he 
hadnt received any suspicious calls or messages and no one knew his security details (PIN 
number) he wasnt sure how a third party was able to access this information. The 
investigator added that a £216.22 transaction was attempted at 1:27pm on the same day as 
the disputed transaction and that this attempted payment was for the exact balance in the 
account at the time. The disputed transaction here (£200) was then authorised a few 
minutes later. So, the investigator felt it was unlikely the payments had been authorised 
without Mr Rs authorisation or him knowing about it. So, he didnt think he could reasonably 
ask Monzo to refund the £200 to Mr R. 
Mr R disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said this service had upheld 
similar cases to his before and that £200 was taken from his account by persons unknown to 
him and unauthorised by him and that the victim here has been blamed. He said card 
skimming is a well-known technique and that the transactions that were attempted and 
refunded by the merchant before the disputed transaction show that there was a third party 
trying to access his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I would also like to make it clear that each complaint is decided by our service on its own 
facts and merits, and Im not bound by what our service might have found in other cases, 
whether similar to this one or not.
Broadly speaking, Mr R is responsible for any payments that he authorised (either by making 
them himself or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. The relevant regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), and Ive considered these alongside the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. 
The key questions for me to decide are:
1. were the payments authorised by Mr R; and 
2. if they werent, did Mr R fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his obligations 
under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions of his account?
Mr R says that its very common for cards to be skimmed, a common technique used by 
scammers, and that the two refunded payments that took place before the £200 payment 
shows that someone was attempting to use his account. 
Monzo has provided technical evidence that shows the £200 payment was authenticated via 
Apple Pay (which Mr R admits he approved before the transaction was made) on the trusted 
device linked to Mr Rs account. There was no secondary device. 
Thats important because Mr R says he authorised Apple Pay, with Monzo showing this was 
done via the app, which also needed Mr Rs security details (PIN). Mr R says no one else 
knows his PIN number. So, Im unable to explain to Monzo how a third party wouldve gained 
access to Mr Rs card, his PIN and then authorised the payment on the only trusted device 
linked to the account at the time of the payment without his knowledge. 
Ive also considered that its unlikely a person who had skimmed Mr Rs bank card wouldve 
known the exact remaining balance in his account to attempt to make the payment of 
£216.22 (which was refunded by the merchant). So, Im satisfied that the evidence Ive 
considered here, suggests that Mr R either authorised the payment or allowed another 
person to make the payment by giving them access to his account.  As a result, I cant fairly ask Monzo to refund the disputed payment here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman