DRN-3513692
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has handled her 
requests for help with paying off her credit account.
Mr A holds Power of Attorney (POA) for Mrs A and both have been represented by a third 
party throughout the complaint. However for ease of reading, all references to Mrs A and Mr 
A include the actions of the third party representative. 
What happened
Mrs A had a credit card with RBS that she opened in 1984. In 2018 Mrs A was diagnosed 
with dementia. And in 2019 Mr A became POA for her financial affairs. 
At the beginning of 2020 Mr A contacted RBS to talk about the account. However it said it 
would need proof of his POA before it could discuss Mrs As account with him. He provided 
this at the beginning of 2021.
The account was closed at the end of 2020, but interest wasnt frozen on the account until a 
payment plan was agreed in spring 2021. 
Mr A wasnt happy with how theyd been treated. He said RBS should have done more to 
help Mrs A when her spending habits changed in 2017. He also didnt think it was fair that it 
needed to see a POA before talking to him. He also said that RBS should have frozen 
interest from when Mrs A was diagnosed in 2018 so thought they should refund any paid 
during this time, which would also enable Mrs A to pay off the debt in a reasonable time 
frame. 
RBS didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr A brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said that as Mrs A had been able to afford the repayments RBS werent obliged to freeze 
interest on the account. Further she said it had sent a number of letters offering advice about 
managing persistent debt and asking Mrs A to call it to discuss her options from 2017 
onwards. So she was satisfied it had done enough to try and help. And she thought it was 
reasonable that it asked for a POA before discussing the account with Mr A.
RBS accepted our investigators opinion and subsequently agreed to refund interest charged 
between January 2021 and March 2021.
However Mr A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying that I sympathise with the difficult situation Mrs A is in and I 
understand the added stress of having a balance to repay must add to these difficulties. 
However when Im considering a complaint I need to look at whether the bank in question 
has got something wrong. And only where I find it has, can I ask it to take action to put things 
right.
Here, Ive not found that RBS has done anything wrong, for the following reasons:
Mr A has said Mrs As spending habits changed in 2017 and RBS should have picked 
this up and taken some action to support her. Ive not been able to identify anything 
significant in Mrs As spending habits at that time other than a reduction in card use. 
However RBS sent numerous letters from around this time until it closed the account in 
2020. These letters encouraged Mrs A to contact it to discuss the account. So I cant see 
that it could have done anything further. 
Mr A thinks RBS should have frozen interest on the account from when Mrs A started 
displaying symptoms. However during this time there was no indication that Mrs A was 
unable to meet the required payments to the account. In fact there were times when an 
over payment was agreed, above the minimum required. Banks are only required to 
freeze interest when there is an affordability issue, so I dont think its acted unfairly by 
not agreeing to this. 
I also note that most of the debt was accrued before Mrs A was diagnosed with 
dementia. Therefore the money owed isnt due to the condition. So I dont think it 
unreasonable that RBS requires Mrs A to pay back the money owed, including the 
interest accrued. 
Mr A has also said that if RBS refunded the interest this would allow Mrs A to pay off the 
debt within 3-4 years which the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) considers to be a 
reasonable timescale. While I note the FCAs guidance around persistent debt, a bank is 
still entitled to require repayment of money owed, including interest accrued. So I dont 
agree its not acted in line with FCA guidance.
RBS has now agreed to refund interest accrued since it received the POA in January 
2021 and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Mr A has also said that RBS acted unfairly by not speaking to him before he provided a 
copy of the POA. RBS has an obligation to ensure its customers financial information is 
confidential and secure, so it isnt able to speak to third parties about its customers 
accounts without authority to do so. This is to protect its customers, so I dont agree this 
was unreasonable. 
As Ive not found RBS has done anything wrong, I wont ask it to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Sophie GoodyearOmbudsman