DRN-3409377
The complaint
Mr H complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit (AvantCredit) lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr H has been assisted in making his complaint by a law firm. But, for ease, in this decision 
I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr H himself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr H was given two loans by AvantCredit. He first borrowed £3,500 in October 2015 
that he agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Mr H repaid that loan, far earlier 
than planned, in October 2016. He then took a second loan in February 2017, 
borrowing £2,000 that he again agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Mr H 
appears to have faced some problems repaying that loan and it was defaulted 
around the time he made his complaint.
AvantCredit says that it gathered information from Mr H about his income and 
expenditure before each loan. And it says it checked his credit file each time too. In 
addition AvantCredit says that it used a third-party service to review the transactions 
on Mr Hs bank statements before it agreed the first loan. But, despite our requests, 
AvantCredit hasnt been able to send us the results of its checks at the time of the 
first loan  it has just provided the information it recorded when the second loan was 
agreed.
Without evidence of the checks that were carried out before the first loan was agreed
I cannot reasonably conclude those checks were proportionate. I do however think 
that the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the second loan were sufficient  
they allowed the lender to form a reasonable picture of Mr Hs finances at the time.
Although I cannot conclude that AvantCredits checks at the time of the first loan 
were proportionate, that doesnt mean that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Id 
also need to be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would 
have shown AvantCredit that Mr H couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
 
As I have said, the information I have from the time is limited. On balance I think it 
likely that Mr H would have told AvantCredit that he had sufficient disposable income 
to afford the loan repayments. I have looked at the credit check from the time of the 
second loan to see what credit Mr H had outstanding when he applied for the first 
loan. And although he had a number of loans outstanding I can see that most of his 
outstanding credit was repaid at the same time he was given the first loan by 
AvantCredit. That would lead to a reasonable conclusion that Mr Hs intention was to 
use the first loan to consolidate his existing debts. And so on that basis I think it 
would have been likely that AvantCredit made a reasonable assessment that the new 
repayments would be affordable.
As I said earlier, AvantCredit also says it reviewed the transactions on Mr Hs bank 
statements at the time. AvantCredit hasnt provided us with the information that it saw 
 since it was provided by a third party, I accept that it may no longer be available. 
So I asked Mr H for copies of his bank statements from the time so I could check the 
information AvantCredit was likely to have seen.
Mr H has said that he is unable to provide those statements to us. So for that reason 
I find myself unable to determine whether there was any information present that 
should have led AvantCredit to conclude that he was facing financial problems and 
so decline his loan application. So based on the information currently available to me 
I cannot reasonably conclude that the first loan shouldnt have been agreed.
As I said earlier, I think the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the second loan 
were proportionate. But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. 
A lender also needs to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. 
Those results might sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a 
consumers financial situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to 
decline a loan application outright. So Ive looked at the results of the checks to see 
whether AvantCredit made a fair lending decision.
The credit check showed that Mr H was making extensive use of other credit 
accounts. He had three active credit cards  each of which was approaching its 
agreed credit limit. He also had two overdrafts, a loan, and a hire purchase account. 
In total Mr H had outstanding debts of over £20,000.
So I think AvantCredit should have been concerned whether it knew enough about 
Mr Hs finances from the information hed provided to make a fair lending decision. 
I think it likely that his normal expenditure was higher than what he had declared. 
So I think AvantCredit should have dug deeper into Mr Hs finances before it agreed 
the loan.
But, as before, that doesnt mean the complaint should be upheld. Id again need to 
be persuaded that those further checks would have led to the loan application being 
declined. So that is why I asked Mr H for copies of his bank statements from the time 
so I could see what the additional information might have shown AvantCredit.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check 
that AvantCredit should have carried out. I do think AvantCredit needed additional 
information to support what Mr H said was happening with his finances. And looking 
at his bank statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course 
many other ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking 
at Mr Hs bank statements I could get a good idea of what additional checks might 
have shown.
 
As before Mr H has been unable to provide those statements to us. So again I am 
unable to determine what his financial circumstances were like at the relevant time. 
That means I cant say that if AvantCredit had completed additional checks it 
wouldve found that Mr H couldnt afford to repay the loans. So I cant reasonably 
conclude that this loan shouldnt have been agreed either.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H. But without evidence of 
what his financial situation was like at the time both loans were agreed, I cannot currently conclude that AvantCredit lent to him in an irresponsible manner. Of course, 
if Mr H is able to provide copies of his bank statements from the time I will reconsider 
my decision. But based on the information I currently hold I dont think his complaint 
should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. AvantCredit has said that it agrees with my provisional findings. Mr H 
hasnt provided us with a response to my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Without Mr H 
providing evidence of what his financial situation was like at the time both loans were 
agreed, I cannot reasonably conclude that AvantCredit lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against AvantCredit of UK, LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman