DRN-2294795
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt with a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy. AXA has refused to pay for some of the repairs.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
There was a delay in the loss assessor visiting the property, but AXA authorised 
temporary repairs in the meantime. The roofer Mr U employed said it wasnt possible 
to make a temporary repair to the main roof, as tiles were damaged and couldnt be 
replaced. So, a permanent repair was made straight away. I dont think this was an 
unreasonable action to take. While I appreciate there was then no damage for the 
loss assessor to see, as Mr U reported the damage at the same time as the damage 
to the garage, which AXA accepted, I think its reasonable to conclude this damage 
was caused by the same event and cover should therefore be provided. Mr U has 
been unable to provide a breakdown of the cost of repairing the main roof, so I think 
it would be reasonable for AXA to pay Mr U the amount its loss assessor estimated 
for the repair, £150.
AXA accepted Mr Us claim for damage caused to the garage. But it questioned the 
roofers use of a specially installed scaffold system instead of a prefabricated tower. 
Mr U has explained the roofer said to put right all of the damage caused to the 
garage and, due to the overhanging roof and layout of ground in front of the garage, 
they deemed the scaffolding necessary after conducting a risk assessment. It isnt 
my role to question whether the assessment for the scaffolding was correct. The 
roofer deemed it a requirement for them to be able to safely complete the work, 
therefore I think AXA should pay this cost to Mr U. Stated as £300 on the invoice. 
Mr U hasnt been able to provide a full breakdown of the cost of repairing the garage, 
so I cant say the amount AXA has paid Mr U is unreasonable.
Mr U reported damage to a different part of the roof on the property a month later. 
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied AXA has acted reasonably in declining 
this claim. There is no evidence which links this to the storm a month previously or to 
any other weather event which provides cover under the policy. While there may be 
damage to the roof, it would be for Mr U to show an insured event caused that 
damage. 
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mr Us complaint in part.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Us complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc and direct it to pay Mr U £150 
towards the cost of repairs to the main roof and, reimburse Mr U £300 for the cost of the 
scaffold system installed. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman