DRN-3164417
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General dealt 
with a claim he made under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr R, and by Fairmead, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. 
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Every insurance claim has a degree of inconvenience that is unavoidable. Some 
more than others depending on the complexity of the claim and the duration of any 
repairs needed. I wouldnt therefore look to award compensation for what I would 
consider to be the normal administration of a claim.
It isnt in dispute there were delays in dealing with this claim and Mr R had to chase 
progress on it more than would usually be necessary. There were also delays in 
alternative accommodation payments being made or reimbursed to Mr R.
Fairmead offered £100 compensation which I dont think is sufficient to reflect the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr R. Mr R has put forward an alternative suggestion of 
around £10,000 to £12,000 which he feels would adequately reflect his lost income, 
stress and anxiety. 
I wouldnt usually look to award compensation on the basis of a day rate, and I see 
no reason to do so here. As I have mentioned above some inconvenience is 
unavoidable where insurance claims are concerned. And similarly, Mr R hasnt been 
able to show that his lost earnings are a direct result of specific delays by Fairmead 
rather than simply due to the nature of the claim itself. The awards this service 
makes are relatively low in comparison to what a court would award, reflecting our 
informal role. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Fairmead did act incorrectly in its 
handling of this claim and that caused Mr R a degree of frustration, stress and 
anxiety. Overall, I think a compensation payment of £700 adequately reflects this.
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Fairmead should do the following:
- Pay Mr R £700 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited 
trading as Legal and General. I direct it to put things right as I have set out in the section 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman