DRN-1719117
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection 
with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things 
simple.
Miss W says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss W took out a store card in November 2002 and PPI was added to her account at the 
same time. 
The policy cost £1.00 for each £100 Miss W owed on her store card. I understand it wouldve 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss W couldnt work 
because shed had an accident, was unwell or lost her job, until the balance was cleared or 
she returned to work.
Miss W says she was in a job with good sick pay and didnt need the PPI. 
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ws complaint didnt uphold it. Miss W disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to make it clear to Miss W she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement 
to it. AXA has given us a copy of Miss Ws signed store card application form. Theres a 
section in it about PPI, which a customer is asked to sign if they want cover. Miss W has 
signed this part of the application form  and her signature is in addition to her signature to 
apply for the card as a whole. If she hadnt wanted PPI, she couldve left this section blank. 
Looking at everything Ive got, I think its likely Miss W wanted PPI at the time, and knew she 
had a choice about it.
Miss W applied for the card and the PPI by filling in a form in a store. So I dont think AXA 
made her a tailored recommendation to buy the PPI. This means it didnt have to check if the 
policy was right for Miss W. But it still needed to make sure it gave Miss W clear enough 
information to make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for her.Its likely the information AXA gave Miss W about some parts of the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  particularly about its true cost and also the things it didnt cover, like 
unusual employment arrangements and known health problems. So I need to think if Miss W 
wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if shed been given clearer information. 
On balance, I dont think she wouldve acted differently.
From what Ive seen, I think Miss W was eligible for the PPI. And I think its unlikely Miss Ws 
policy had any significant exclusions or limiting terms that wouldve stopped her being able 
to claim on it.
Miss W says she wouldve got six months full pay, then six months half pay from her 
employer is she was off work sick. But, if shed made a successful claim, the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of this and potentially for longer than Miss Ws full sick pay lasted. And Miss 
W hasnt mentioned anything else, like savings or other insurance policies, she couldve 
fallen back on if things got difficult. She does say her partner and her family couldve helped 
her. But this kind of help cant be guaranteed, because peoples circumstances can change, 
and it isnt the same as having an insurance policy in place. So I think Miss W couldve found 
the PPI useful if she couldnt work for a long time because of sickness or if she lost her job.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Miss W has lost out because of anything AXA 
has done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I don't uphold Miss W's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman