DRN-4258571
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) treated her, when she 
encountered financial difficulties with a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs M says she was asked by her ex-partner, who Ill call A, to help him 
get finance for a car. Mrs M says A told her he needed a car to get to work, so she agreed to 
take out a hire purchase agreement with SMF, in her name. As part of their arrangement, it 
was planned for A to make payments to Mrs M on a monthly basis.
By the end of 2018, Mrs M says she and A had separated, after she had cause to involve the 
police due to As abusive behaviour towards her. Mrs M says she contacted SMF and told 
them about the nature of the separation. She also says she told SMF she couldnt afford the 
repayments, as A wasnt contributing towards them.
A few months later, the agreement entered into arrears and Mrs M made contact with SMF 
to try and sort things out. During her discussions with SMF, Mrs M decided to voluntarily 
surrender the car and gave SMF As address so they could collect it. Once the car was in 
SMFs possession, they arranged for it to be sold at auction.
The sale of the car reduced the outstanding amount owed under the hire purchase 
agreement. But, this still left a balance that SMF held Mrs M responsible for.
Over the next few years, Mrs M made repayment arrangements with SMF and then with a 
recovery agent, after the account was sold on. However, in July 2021 Mrs M raised a 
complaint with SMF and said they hadnt checked that she was able to afford the hire 
purchase agreement when they gave it to her in 2018. Mrs M also complained that SMF 
hadnt helped her, when she made them aware of her personal circumstances in early 2019.
In their response to Mrs Ms complaint, SMF said they had completed proportional checks to 
make sure Mrs M was able to meet the repayments due under the agreement. They also 
said they werent aware of Mrs Ms financial circumstances prior to July 2019. Mrs M didnt 
accept SMFs response and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms case and found that SMF hadnt treated Mrs M 
fairly. Although she concluded SMF had carried out proportional affordability checks on 
Mrs Ms application, she said SMF should have offered Mrs M further help in January 2019.
The investigator asked SMF to refund any interest and charges added to the balance of the 
hire purchase agreement from January 2019 onwards. She also asked SMF to remove any 
adverse information recorded about the agreement and to pay Mrs M £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience she had been caused.
Mrs M accepted the investigators conclusions, but SMF didnt respond. So, Mrs Ms case 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I sent Mrs M and SMF my provisional decision on this case, on 3 July 2023. I explained why 
I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is included below:
This case is about a hire purchase agreement in Mrs Ms name taken out with SMF, which is 
a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
Mrs M has previously raised concerns with SMF about the nature of As involvement in the 
application for the finance and the confusion caused when Mrs M was given a balance of the 
account. These concerns were looked into by SMF in March 2020, quite some time before 
Mrs M approached our service. So, to be clear, I havent considered those concerns here.
Instead, Ive thought about the complaint raised by Mrs M about SMFs affordability 
assessment and when she says she told them about her difficult personal circumstances in 
January 2019.
The affordability of the agreement
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think the key questions to ask here are:
Did SMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mrs M 
would be able to make repayments due under the agreement in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
SMF provided this agreement under the authorisation and regulation of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required SMF to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focused  so SMF had to think about whether 
making repayments sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs M.
In practice this meant that SMF had to ensure that making the payments under the 
agreement wouldnt cause Mrs M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, 
it wasnt enough for SMF to simply think about the likelihood of it getting their money back, 
they had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mrs M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application for the 
agreement. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough when:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any repayment amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a hire purchase application  including (but not limited to) any indications 
of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. So, Ive 
carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
In Mrs Ms case she was given a loan under a hire purchase agreement for £4,000 with 
monthly payments of £144.81 over three years. Inclusive of an option to buy payment of £10, 
the total amount payable by Mrs M to SMF was £5,223.16.
SMF have told us that they looked at Mrs Ms payslips, her existing borrowing commitments 
and her borrowing history, when she applied for the hire purchase agreement. SMF also say 
they looked at a general cost of living index, to work out if Mrs M had an appropriate amount 
of disposable income to meet the repayments of the loan.
Weve not seen Mrs Ms payslips, but Ive reviewed several of her bank account statements 
from the end of 2018. Having done so, I can see that Mrs Ms income reflects the amount 
used by SMF, to start their affordability checks.
The bank account statements also show that on the whole, Mrs M operated the account well, 
with little sign of financial strain. So, I dont think there was any significant indicator to SMF 
that she was in financial difficulty. I acknowledge where Mrs M has told us that she was 
receiving some financial help from her employer, but I dont think this was obvious to SMF at 
the time.
Additionally, Mrs M was receiving payments into her account from A, to contribute to their 
regular outgoings. And while SMF wouldnt have seen this, as they didnt request Mrs Ms 
bank account statements, I think it further supports the argument that her income was more 
than sufficient to cover her essential expenditure. I also think there was sufficient disposable 
income remaining to cover the proposed monthly payment to SMF.
I accept that the tool SMF used to form a general view of Mrs Ms financial circumstances, 
was not an exact and true reflection. However, Ive considered the regular monthly 
repayments Mrs M made at the end of 2018 and what we know about her income. Having 
done so, I think SMFs findings that Mrs M had sufficient disposal income was fair and 
reasonable.
SMF have told us that during their check, they found that Mrs M didnt have any accounts in 
default and all of her borrowing was well ran and up to date. So, Ive looked at a report 
Mrs M has provided from a credit reference agency, to see if that is supported. After 
considering that report, I agree with SMFs position, in that Mrs Ms borrowing history 
matches their findings from 2018.
In all the circumstances, I think SMF gathered relevant and proportional information to show 
that Mrs M was able to make the payments due under the hire purchase agreement in a 
sustainable way. Overall, Im persuaded that SMF made a fair lending decision when they 
provided the borrowing to Mrs M.Mrs Ms personal circumstances
Mrs M has also complained that SMF didnt treat her fairly when she told them about her 
personal circumstances in January 2019. She says she separated from A, because he 
became physically abusive towards her. And that the result of this made her vulnerable, both 
with her wellbeing and her financial situation.
The guidance about supporting vulnerable customers which was available to SMF at the 
time, was The FCAs Occasional Paper No. 8  Customer Vulnerability. This was published 
in February 2015 and aimed to increase understanding around good practice for dealing with 
vulnerable consumers.
The guidance explained:
A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstance, is 
especially susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with 
appropriate levels of care
Under Examples of risk factors for vulnerability it says:
change in circumstances (e.g. job loss, bereavement, divorce)
So, it follows that Im satisfied Mrs Ms circumstances had at least one of the risk factors for 
vulnerability. Im satisfied SMF wouldve been aware of this when she first discussed her 
financial difficulties and as the situation developed to the point SMF took back Mrs Ms car. 
There are a number of requirements set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the 
Principles for Business handbook (PRIM). PRIM 2.1.1 6 sets out that:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
The FCA also sets out responsibilities in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 
7.3.4 sets out:
A firm must treat customers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration
CONC 7.3.5 goes on to give some examples of treating a consumer with forbearance:
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges
Or:
allowing deferment of payment of arrears
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock
From looking at SMFs contact with Mrs M, I can see that the assistance they offered to her, 
was talk to her about ending the contract through voluntary surrender and to look to agree a 
repayment plan. SMF also passed the outstanding balance of the account to a recovery 
agent in August 2019.
I dont think it was likely that Mrs M would have wished to have kept the car, given her 
financial position, the difficulty getting the car back from A and that she chose to voluntary surrender the agreement anyway. And I think its fair for Mrs M to pay for the cost of the car 
financed by the hire purchase agreement.
However, bearing in mind SMFs responsibility to treat Mrs M with due consideration and 
forbearance, I think SMF should have done more to help.
In all the circumstances, I think SMF should have supported Mrs M by keeping the debt with 
them, where they would have been best placed to work with her vulnerable circumstances. I 
also think SMF should have looked to suspend the interest and late payment fees from being 
added to the account, to prevent the overall debt from increasing.
SMF were aware of the very distressing circumstances she has explained and what led to 
Mrs M taking out the agreement in the first place. So, I think SMF could have prevented a 
further impact on her financial standing, buy showing more forbearance with the details 
passed onto credit reference agencies.
In light of my findings here, Ive gone on to consider when SMF should have taken further 
steps to help Mrs M.
SMF have sent us their records of contact with Mrs M from November 2018 onwards. I can 
see from those records that they dont have a note of contact with Mrs M in January 2019. 
SMFs records show that Mrs M first made them aware of her personal circumstances in July 
2019. So, Ive thought about what Mrs M has said to decide when SMF could have offered 
her more support.
Mrs M has told us that she separated from A in late 2018. I acknowledge that it must have 
been very difficult for Mrs M during this time. And she has sent us an email from a police 
officer, to show what had happened when her relationship with A had ended. But, that email 
was sent to Mrs M in June 2019, some months after she says she made SMF aware of her 
situation.
Additionally, I can see from looking at the statements for the loan, that payments continued 
to be made until June 2019. I think this shows that Mrs M maintained her commitment to the 
agreement, after the relationship with A had ended.
After considering all the evidence, on balance Im not persuaded Mrs M made SMF aware of 
her circumstances in January 2019. Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely Mrs M made 
SMF aware of her vulnerabilities in July 2019. So, I think this is when SMF should have 
offered Mrs M more help and support.
The settlement of this complaint
Ive concluded that SMF should have suspended interest and fees in July 2019. 
Consequently, I think its fair for SMF to now refund any interest applied to the balance of the 
loan from July 2019 onwards and to refund the two £12 fees added in July and August 2019.
Given that Mrs M may have made payments towards the loan balance since July 2019, any 
refund of fees and interest, may mean her account will enter into a credit balance.
If this happens, I think its fair for SMF to add interest to that balance, at 8% a year simple, 
calculated from when the credit balance would have been created, to the date of settlement 
of this complaint. I say this because Mrs M has would have been without the use of any 
funds paid over and above, what she owes to SMF.
However, it may be that a balance remains owed by Mrs M. In this instance, I remind SMF of their responsibility to treat Mrss Ms current financial circumstances with due consideration 
and forbearance. This will mean working with Mrs M to make sure she is able to make 
affordable repayments to any outstanding debt.
Ive also said that SMF could have prevented any negative information from being applied to 
the information held with credit reference agencies. So, I think its fair for SMF to remove any 
adverse information, from the records kept by the credit reference agencies they use, about 
the hire purchase agreement in Mrs Ms name.
Mrs M has told us that due to As actions, she encountered extreme difficulties at her place 
of work and feared for her safety. This is in addition to the impact on her financial 
circumstances and her mental health. But, I agree with the investigator and think Mrs M was 
caused additional trouble, when she had to explain her situation to the debt recovery agent 
and where she saw the balance of her loan increasing.
I accept that nearly all of Mrs Ms worry in 2018 and 2019, was caused by A. But, I think the 
distress Mrs M experienced was exacerbated by how SMF treated her. So, I think its fair for 
SMF to make a payment to Mrs M to reflect the distress they caused. Having considered 
everything, I think its fair for SMF to pay Mrs M £200 for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced.
Mrs M responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. SMF didnt respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs M accepted my findings and SMF didnt make any further comments, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Specialist Motor Finance Limited should:
1. refund all interest and the two £12 fees applied to the balance of the hire purchase 
agreement from July 2019 to the date of settlement of this complaint;
2. add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to any credit balance created after part one 
of this settlement has been carried out, calculated from when the credit balance 
would have been created, to the date of settlement of this complaint;
3. remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies about the 
hire purchase agreement in Mrs Ms name; and
4. pay Mrs M £200 for the distress and inconvenience she has experienced.
SMF must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs M 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If SMF deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mrs M, they should provide Mrs M with a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman