DRN-4251997
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the fact that Santander Consumer (UK) plc (Santander) declined her 
application for car finance and their reasons for doing so. 
What happened
The case has been brought to our service by a representative on behalf of Mrs R, but for 
simplicity I will always refer to evidence and comment being provided by Mrs R. 
Mrs R applied for finance from Santander to acquire a new car. They declined her 
application, and she complained about this, saying she had checked with Santander 
customer services who confirmed that her previous finance agreement with them hadnt had 
any late payments, she had always made a payment within the payment cycle, so on time. 
Santander issued their final response letter (FRL) in September 2022 and did not uphold her 
complaint. They said theyd listened to the call in question and agreed customer services 
had told her this. They went on to explain that they discussed this with both the business 
development manager who liaised with the dealership about finance agreements, and also 
contacted their underwriting department to review the lending decision. 
The underwriting department confirmed that the decline for finance would still stand, as they 
were not happy that the lending was affordable to Mrs R based on the application and their 
credit searches more generally, in particular with regards to the business which Mrs R was a 
director of. 
Santander also confirmed that Mrs R could contact the underwriting department to discuss 
the application further if she wished, but that as a responsible lender, they take into account 
a variety of things when satisfying themselves that a lending decision is fair and affordable. 
They confirmed that they werent upholding the complaint, because the application was 
declined based on their general assessment of Mrs Rs finances, not because any of the 
payments on the previous application were showing as being made late. 
Mrs R didnt agree with this and brought her complaint to our service in March 2023. An 
investigator here looked into it and did not uphold her complaint. They said that there was 
little supporting evidence from either side, but it was more likely that Santander had made a 
decision based on her overall affordability for the loan, not based on any late payments from 
the previous agreement. 
The investigator also highlighted that its not the role of our service to comment on or try to 
influence a businesss lending processes or policy, or to comment on the firms risk appetite. 
We would expect a lender to carry out adequate affordability assessments on every case, 
and any concerns about the lending criteria a firm applies would be dealt with by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), not ourselves. 
Mrs R disagreed with this view and asked an Ombudsman to make a final decision. Shes 
told us that she has evidence in an email showing that it was the alleged late payments 
which caused the decline, and this isnt fair as the finance she ended up taking cost her 
more than it would have with Santander.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. 
I have little to add to what the investigator here has already told Mrs R. Because no 
application was taken forward, we have limited evidence of the specifics in this case. But 
fundamentally, a lender is entitled to decline an application based on their own lending 
criteria. We have no power to instruct a lender that they should lend to any particular 
consumer, or at any particular interest rate. 
The criteria they set in order to decide on whether to lend are for the business to decide 
upon, and for the FCA to monitor. So, I wont be discussing these further, as they not part of 
our remit to investigate. 
If I look at the specifics of this case, Mrs R has told us she has a screenshot of an email 
which shows that they declined the application because of late payments on her previous 
agreement. Weve asked for a copy of this three times, over a period of many weeks, but 
have not been provided with this evidence. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether this evidence might change my mind in this case. 
Having thought about this, I can confirm it wouldnt change my mind. Mrs R has said that the 
email was between the lender and the supplying car dealership and was inconsistent with 
what she wwas told by Santander in their FRL. This would likely have been an email 
between the business development manager at Santander and the dealership, as this 
person is responsible for the relationship with that dealership. 
If the email contained a different version of events, Ive thought about how this would affect 
my decision, and the answer is that it wouldnt. In their FRL, Santander have explained the 
process they went through in underwriting the application, and also what they discussed with 
underwriters when investigating this complaint. 
Even if there had at some point been consideration to decline the application due to late 
payments, when the underwriters looked at it, they confirmed that they had declined the 
application because they didnt feel it was affordable to Mrs R. They said the payments for 
this agreement were considerably higher than her previous agreement, and as such, with the 
information they held from her application and their checks, they didnt feel it was affordable. 
Santander are entitled to make this decision, and they also offered Mrs R the opportunity to 
discuss the application with their underwriters, so she could correct any concerns they had if 
there were mistakes. 
There is no evidence that the application was declined due to late payments on the previous 
agreement. But even if there was a mistake and the application had been declined for this 
reason, as soon as it had been revisited, the application would still have been declined, because the underwriters were not satisfied it was affordable. As such, Mrs R cannot have 
suffered any detriment here, because even if there had been a wrong initial decision, once 
corrected, or indeed if that mistake hadnt happened at all, the lending decision would have 
remained exactly the same. 
I am satisfied that Santander declined the application based on overall affordability, not 
based on late payments on a previous agreement. But even if they had made a mistake and 
included late payments as a reason to decline it, Im satisfied this has had no impact on Mrs 
R, because they would have declined the application due to overall affordability anyway.
 Alongside this, Ive seen no evidence that they may have declined the application due to the 
late payments. I am satisfied that Santander dont need to do any more here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman