DRN-2434905
The complaint
Mr K complains that he faced a number of unexpected charges when he made payments 
through Skrill Limited. He said this was fraudulent, and he wanted his money back.
What happened
Mr K said he made payments that were supposed to be in Malaysian Ringgit (MYR) from his 
Skrill account, to an account denominated in Indian Rupees (INR). But he said that Skrill 
applied a number of unexpected charges onto his account. 
Mr K pointed to four transactions where he said hed been charged much more than he 
expected to pay money into his Skrill account, ranging from a payment of 1000 MYR which 
actually cost him 1,022.58, to a payment of 5,000 MYR which actually cost him 5,153.27. 
Mr K said there wasnt any consistency in the extra amounts he was charged, as another 
deposit of 5,000 MYR cost him 5,112.15. 
Mr K said that these extra charges were fraudulent. He sent us screenshots that he said 
showed these transactions on his Skrill account, and told him he wouldnt pay any fees. 
Skrill said that the screenshots Mr K had sent werent of money being paid into his Skrill 
account. They were screenshots of payments out of his account, which were totally different. 
Skrill said that when Mr K opened this account, in MYR, he wasnt actually able to pay MYR 
into the account. Skrill said it had told Mr K this. And it said that it had been clear with him 
that it was going to charge his personal bank account in another currency. 
Skrill said it had told Mr K, for each transaction, what currency it was going to use. And it had 
warned him that this might mean his bank might charge a currency conversion fee. 
Skrill sent us a screenshots of one of these transactions which showed all the information 
Skrill told us it had provided. And Skrill said that Mr K had actually sent this to Skrill, so hed 
definitely seen it.
Skrill said it had given Mr K all the information he needed before his transactions. It thought 
that hed then chosen to go ahead with these transactions. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. Skrill also said that Mr K had instigated a chargeback for transactions on his account. 
That had left him with a negative balance and was also a breach of Skrills terms. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the terms and 
conditions of the account set out that Skrill may need to use a different currency to process 
transactions. Two of the transactions Mr K complained about had been done in United 
States Dollars (USD) and two in Euros (EUR). 
Our investigator was satisfied that Skrill set out the cost and currency it would use before the 
transactions were approved by Mr K. So it had told Mr K what it was going to charge, and in 
what currency. Mr Ks bank may have charged him more than he was expecting for 
transactions not in the currency that he was depositing, but that wasnt Skrills fault. So she 
didnt think Skrill did anything wrong.
Mr K said that wasnt fair, and wed missed things out. He said that the screenshots of his 
transactions clearly stated 0 additional fees or charges, but additional charges were levied, 
and there was no prior warning of any currency fluctuation. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, the case was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision as our investigator.
Mr K has sent us screenshots of four transactions, which each show an exchange from MYR 
to INR. They show a specified exchange rate, and no additional fees. 
But those are the payments out of his Skrill account. And what Mr K is complaining about in 
this case is how much it cost him to pay into his Skrill account  how much his bank account 
was charged for each of the payments he made to put money on his account. 
Skrill has shown us the screens Mr K saw when he did that. And it says that Mr K must have 
been aware that these were different, because hed sent at least one of these screens to it, 
as part of his complaint. 
Skrill has set out the currency it charged Mr K, and the amounts its given us match with 
those on his bank statement. Ive not seen anything that suggests to me that these amounts 
are different to the amounts Mr K was given before he went ahead with these transactions. 
I understand that Mr K may have found these transactions were more expensive than he 
was expecting. I think thats because the MYR he held in his personal bank account were 
converted into either USD or EUR when he paid money onto his Skrill account. Then this 
money was converted back into MYR when it arrived at Skrill. Then it was converted into 
INR to make the payments he wanted. 
I would expect that Mr K would have experienced some losses due to the number of 
currency conversions in these transactions. But Im satisfied that Skrill warned him about 
how the payments would be processed. So I dont think its done anything wrong. 
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman