DRN-2951566
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund all of the money he lost after falling 
victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint and the details were clearly set 
out by our Investigator when she wrote to the bank upholding Mr Ds complaint. As such, 
I wont repeat them all here. In summary:
Mr D was looking for investment opportunities online. Hed sold a property and 
wanted to earn interest on the proceeds.
He came across a corporate bond advertised by a wealth management company 
offering a 5% return per annum. Unfortunately, the website was a clone of the 
legitimate business and was actually operated by fraudsters.
Mr D has explained he was reassured by the information that was provided which 
contained details of the companys FCA registration number and said that 
investments of up to £85,000 were protected by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.
After corresponding with the fraudsters, including a telephone discussion, Mr D 
decided to invest £85,000. In December 2019 he sent a total of £60,100 from his 
account at HSBC and £24,900 from an account he held with another financial 
business. The other business has refunded the money he sent from his account held 
there. 
Mr D was expecting to receive statements confirming his investment. When he 
chased up the missing paperwork, he ended up in contact with the genuine wealth 
management company and it came to light hed been the victim of a scam. He then 
contacted HSBC for help. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which is designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to an APP 
scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be refunded in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of those exceptions applies in this 
case.
I am also mindful that when Mr D made these payments, HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
When HSBC considered the matter, it acknowledged it ought to have given Mr D more 
warnings about the type of scam he fell victim to at the point he was making the payments. 
And so, recognising the provisions of the CRM Code, it offered to refund Mr D 50% of his 
loss. But it said Mr D ought to share responsibility for the loss as he hadnt met his requisite 
level of care. Specifically, it considered he did not have a reasonable basis for believing the 
investment was legitimate and said he ought to have carried out more checks before making 
the payments. It pointed out he did not check the investment firms details on the FCA 
register or Companies House.
Mr D disagreed with HSBC and referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators considered the matter and thought HSBC should have fully upheld Mr Ds 
complaint. She didnt think HSBC has established that Mr D had failed to meet his requisite 
level of care under the CRM Code. She placed weight on the sophistication of the scam. She 
highlighted that the fraudsters had created a professional operation, with processes and 
paperwork mirroring what a customer would typically expect to happen when dealing with a 
genuine regulated firm. She highlighted that Mr D felt reassured that his savings would be 
safe because of the FSCS protection that was detailed in the paperwork. Overall, 
considering all the circumstances, she thought HSBC should have fully reimbursed Mr Ds 
loss and that HSBC should have done more than it did when Mr D was making the payments 
using the banks telephone banking service. She felt the scam could have been prevented if 
Mr D had been asked questions about how hed found the investment and discussed the 
checks he could make to protect himself.
HSBC disagreed. It said Mr D was not a vulnerable or unsophisticated consumer. It said he 
failed to take reasonable and appropriate steps to protect himself from fraud. It pointed out 
that there was an inconsistency in the version of events around whether Mr D had checked 
the FCA website or not before making the payments. It suggested Mr D might even have 
been grossly negligent if he had checked the FCA website and failed to see a clear warning. 
It referred to a conversation where Mr D had told the bank he hadnt checked the FCA 
website before making the payments and reiterated that by not doing so, he had not met his 
requisite level of care. 
Our Investigator considered the banks points. She agreed, on balance, that Mr D did not 
check the investment firm on the FCA register before making the payments. But she thought 
that the inclusion of the FCA logo and registration details in the fraudsters correspondence 
was still credible, especially as Mr D thought he was dealing with a regulated investment 
firm. She also considered whether it would have made a difference if Mr D had checked the 
FCA register before making the payments. She noted that if Mr D had searched the FCA 
register by company name, it would have brought up 16 different regulated firms with similar 
trading names. Only one entry had a warning about cloned companies associated with it. 
She thought that even if Mr D had searched using the registration number given in the 
fraudsters paperwork, Mr D would not have found any information or warnings that would 
have caused him concern. She also did not think Mr Ds actions met the very high bar to be 
considered grossly negligent. 
HSBC did not agree. It maintained that Mr D did not complete sufficient checks. As no 
agreement could be reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded all of the money 
Mr D lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr D made the payments using telephone banking. HSBC had the opportunity to ask 
him questions about the payments he was making and I think it should have done so 
given Mr Ds age at the time and the fact that he was making large payments, which 
the bank does not dispute are indicators that a consumer may be at risk of falling 
victim to a scam. If it had done so, I am satisfied the fraud would have come to light 
and the loss prevented. I have no reason to think Mr D would not have undertaken 
specific verification steps had the bank advised them at the time. 
In the circumstances, the bank should have fairly and reasonably refunded all the 
money Mr D lost.
The money was sent from Mr Ds current account. Although Mr D has explained that 
he wanted to invest the funds, it is not clear exactly how he would have used the 
money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done. As such, HSBC should 
pay interest on the remaining balance it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr D had a reasonable 
basis for believing the investment to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view. In particular, I am not persuaded that Mr D failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied HSBC has not shown that Mr D lacked a reasonable basis of belief because:
This was sophisticated fraud which involved a cloned financial services firm. Mr D 
was not cold called. He found the details online and genuinely believed he was 
interacting with the genuine firm. Hes explained that he spoke to the fraudsters on 
the telephone and I consider this to be a powerful interaction which builds trust and 
confidence. Cloning a genuine firm and mirroring its processes gives the interaction 
legitimacy. I think it is reasonable that this went undetected by Mr D. 
From what I have seen, the correspondence Mr D received is in line with what he 
would have expected to receive in connection with a genuine investment of this type. 
In addition, the investment appears to be based on a genuine product that was 
available at the time. 
HSBC is particularly concerned that Mr D did not search the FCA register to find and 
verify information about the firm. But I dont agree it was unreasonable for Mr D not 
to have done so in the circumstances of this complaint. At the time, Mr D was fully in 
the belief he was in contact with a genuine firm. Ive not seen anything that makes 
me think Mr D had any knowledge or awareness that firms could be cloned.Im also mindful that the average consumer will probably not know exactly what 
information they are looking to verify on the FCA register unless they are given 
guidance of the significance of that additional search. As our Investigator has 
already highlighted to the bank, there are many similar entries for the genuine 
investment firm on the FCA register and only one of those had a warning about 
cloned firms associated with it. At the time of the scam, Mr D was 81 years old and 
retired. He is not a financial professional.
 
It is unclear specifically what information the bank thinks Mr D would have learnt by 
looking for a regulated investment firm on Companies House. Ive not seen anything 
that makes me think Mr D is at fault for not doing this check. 
For these reasons, and considering the circumstances as a whole, Im satisfied Mr D made 
the payments with a reasonable basis for belief that they were for a legitimate investment. 
And, for completeness, I am also satisfied Mr D did not act with gross negligence. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Ive found that Mr D ought to have been fully refunded and that it is fair and reasonable that 
HSBC reimburses him now, in resolution to this complaint. 
I therefore require that HSBC:
pays Mr D the remaining 50% of the money he lost  £30,050
pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date Mr D 
incurred the loss to the date of settlement- less any tax lawfully deductible. HSBC 
should send Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman