DRN-2518391
The Complaint
Miss S has complained that Amigo Loans Ltd (Amigo) provided her with two unaffordable 
guarantor loans. She says that, if Amigo had carried out the right checks before providing 
her with the loans, it would have found that the loans were unaffordable for her. 
Background to the Complaint
Amigo provided Miss S with two loans on 16 September 2016 and 1 December that year. 
Both loans were secured by way of guarantees and indemnity agreements.
Loan One
This was a £5,000 loan taken to purchase a car and consolidate some debt. It was 
repayable over 36 months and the monthly repayments were £243.95. The loans Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) was 49.9% - which, when applied to the amount borrowed over the 
36-month term, amounted to £3,782.20 in interest. As a result, the total amount payable was 
£8,782.20.
Miss S started her loan application online  completing an income and expenditure 
assessment when doing so. And not long afterwards, she was phoned by Amigo to discuss 
the application and complete the process over the phone.
Amigo pointed out that Miss S had declared her income and outgoings online  which were 
recorded by Amigo as £1,287 and £587 respectively. The conversation didnt elaborate on 
much of what had been declared  though it did focus, at points, on house and life insurance 
as well as the declaration Miss S made online when she said that her partner paid the rent 
while she paid for food, utilities and other regular household bills. 
Miss S declared that she was spending £10 a month on life insurance. And when asked by 
Amigo about what she might spend at most each month on house insurance should she 
have it in the future, she said it might be £15 a month.
Miss S also confirmed, when asked, that her partner was paying the rent as well as some of 
the other household bills at times and she said that she was confident that he would do so 
for the duration of the loan. 
The conversation moved on to Miss Ss credit file. Amigo queried three existing accounts 
that were in default. When doing so, it reassured her that they wouldnt stop her from getting 
the loan. But they needed to be budgeted for. Miss S indicated that she had arrangements in 
place to pay all three  declaring that two were £10 a month and the other was £50 a month. 
She also told Amigo that these accounts were what she wanted to consolidate using the 
money she was borrowing.
Amigo concluded the initial part of the conversation by asking Miss S if there were any other 
outgoings she needed to include and if she anticipated any changes over the next three 
years that might see her income go down and/or her outgoings go up. Miss S mentioned that 
she was paying £27 a month for her TV Licence. But other than that, she told Amigo that it 
had everything. She also said that she didnt anticipate any changes to her outgoings or 
income as her jobs were secure and she hoped that her partners business would go from 
strength-to-strength.
Amigo then calculated Miss Ss disposable income as £700 and told her that it was £400 
each month once the monthly repayment for the loan in question was taken into account. It 
also told her what would happen if she went over her budget and found the loan 
unaffordable.
At that point, Miss S told Amigo that she had two jobs. She said she was working for her 
guarantor for three days a week before going on to make the point that her income from that 
job was more than enough to cover the monthly repayment on the loan.    
Miss S did go on to enquire about borrowing more than £5,000. But decided against it. And 
with that being the case, Amigo went ahead and lent Miss S the money she was after.
Loan Two
This was a £7,250 loan taken to purchase a car and refinance Loan One  which meant that 
Miss S borrowed £2,309.31 in new money. It was repayable over 60 months and the monthly 
repayments were £286.56. The loans Annual Percentage Rate (APR) was 49.9% - which, 
when applied to the total amount borrowed over the 60-month term, amounted to £9,943.60 
in interest. As a result, the total amount payable was £17,193.60.
This time around, it was Miss S who phoned Amigo to discuss the application and complete 
the process over the phone.
Two minutes into the call, Amigo spent 40 seconds or so running through Miss Ss income 
and outgoings to ensure they hadnt changed since her loan application in September  
which included what she had previously disclosed about the rent being paid for by her 
partner. Miss S confirmed that there hadnt been any changes to either her income or 
outgoings  though these were recorded at the slightly higher sum of £616.31.
Amigo then turned to Miss Ss credit file. It queried a Doorstep Loan and an account she had 
for her utilities  which Miss S attributed to a meter she topped up each month. But neither 
query led to a more in-depth conversation about the results of Amigos credit search.
The conversation then moved on to any anticipated changes to Miss Ss circumstances over 
the next five years  which she hoped there wouldnt be.
And based on everything Miss S had provided during the application, Amigo calculated that 
she still had enough disposable income to render this loan affordable. So, it went ahead and 
lent her the money she was after.
2019
With concerns about Amigos decisions to lend in 2016, Miss S complained about them in 
2019. In response, Amigo argued that it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks  carrying out a credit search along with an income and expenditure assessment that 
it verified using statistical information that it got from a credit reference agency and the Office 
of National Statistics (ONS). And having calculated that Miss Ss disposable income 
rendered Loans One and Two affordable in its view, it rejected Miss Ss complaint.
Unhappy with Amigos response to the complaint, Miss S referred it to us in late 2019. And in 
her Complaint Form (CF), she argued that both loans were unaffordable because she was in financial difficulty with an impaired credit file. She also informed us that she went into a Debt 
Relief Order  which she told us started in July 2017.
We emailed Miss S on 4 December 2019 to ask her for more information to help us decide 
whether we could prioritise the complaint. And as part of her response, she told us that the 
money she borrowed from Amigo hadnt been included in her Debt Relief Order. She also 
told us that she had a partner at the time of each loan application and that she had been 
honest with Amigo about the contributions he was making to the household bills  including 
the rent.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and she asked Miss S on 3 February 2020 
to provide her with some bank statements. Miss S did that and provided statements for a 
Halifax account on the 15th of that month. The statements covered 20 July 2016 to 6 January 
2017. But having looked at them, our adjudicator decided that she needed more information 
as there were numerous transfers to another of Miss Ss accounts and a lot of what went into 
her Halifax account was cash.
So, on 10 March 2020 our adjudicator asked Miss S to explain the cash deposits and 
provide the statements for the account that she was transferring money into. 
Miss S responded by email on the same day. She provided statements for a Lloyds TSB 
account  which covered 2 August 2016 to 9 January 2017. She told our adjudicator that she 
was paid in cash from two part-time jobs at a gift shop and bar. She said she was earning 
roughly £300 a week and that she didnt always have time to go to the bank each week to 
deposit her wages  so she sometimes deposited larger sums from a few weeks wages as a 
result. 
In the same email, Miss S also told our adjudicator that some of the cash deposits were from 
her partner at the time to help her with the bills. She also said that she didnt remember 
Amigo checking her bank statements or payslips; the loan applications were based on what 
her partner contributed.
Miss S followed her email on 10 March 2020 with another email a day later  which she used 
to provide another explanation of her bank statements and a breakdown of her outgoings. 
When explaining her bank statements, Miss S referred in general terms to what was leaving 
her account and why. This is what she said:
Some of the money transferred out of her account was to help her children;
Her partner at the time used her account to hold some of his money as he was going 
through a divorce;
£3,000 was used to pay back her sons friend who had lent him the money to buy a car;
She was paying back an existing debt each month;
She played the National Lottery; and
She splashed out for Christmas. 
As for Miss Ss outgoings, she listed the following:
Rent/Water £660
Gas/Electric £160
Council Tax £120
TV Licence £12
Phone £40
Sky £40Life Insurance £10
Food £100
Credit Cards/Credit £50
Tobacco £40
Total £1,232
Our adjudicator considered what Miss S had said and provided along with everything else on 
file and shared her initial assessment with both parties on 2 April 2020. When coming to her 
view, she said that there were three key questions to consider when determining a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint:
1. Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the loans in question in a sustainable way?
a. If it did, did it come to a fair lending decision? or
b. If it didnt, would such checks have shown that Miss S would have been able to repay 
the loans in question in a sustainable way?
2. Was there a point when Amigo ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing 
Miss Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  such that 
it shouldnt have lent her any more money?
3. Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Our adjudicator argued that Amigos checks in September 2016 werent reasonable and 
proportionate in light of the loan term and the cost of the borrowing because it hadnt verified 
Miss Ss financial circumstances. So, she went on to consider what more thorough checks 
would have shown. 
Having done that, our adjudicator suggested that, had Amigo carried out such checks by 
verifying Miss Ss income and expenditure  using, for example, some of her bank 
statements, it would have discovered that she was paying her own rent as well as the 
household bills. And with that being the case, our adjudicator concluded that more thorough 
checks probably would have led Amigo to the conclusion that the lending was likely to have 
been unsustainable and therefore unaffordable.
Our adjudicator did go on to consider the third question. But she didnt think Amigo had 
acted unfairly in any other way.
As for Loan Two, because Miss Ss financial circumstances hadnt changed in the few 
months that had passed since Loan One, our adjudicator reached the same conclusion that 
more thorough checks would have probably led Amigo to the conclusion that the lending was 
likely to have been unsustainable and therefore unaffordable on that occasion too.  
And with that being the case, our adjudicator upheld the complaint in full.
Amigo responded on 23 July 2020 and provided us with detailed submissions on why it 
disagreed with the outcome our adjudicator had reached so far and her reasons for it. There 
were three parts to its submissions:
1. General Observations Relevant to This Complaint;
2. The Lending Decisions; and
3. Miss Ss Circumstances at The Relevant Time 
Here's a summary from each part. For ease of reference, Ive included the number used by 
Amigo to identify each paragraph.
General Observations Relevant to This Complaint
6. The onus in this complaint must be on Miss S to demonstrate, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the steps taken by Amigo were not only inadequate or unfair in some 
way, but that they were the main cause of her detriment.
7. We failed to adequately take into account the nature of the market in which Amigo 
operates. And we failed to take sufficient account of the steps Amigo took to verify 
Miss Ss circumstances  including the responses she freely made to its enquiries at the 
time.
8. Amigo only offers guarantor loans. It invites customers to support their application for 
credit by obtaining a guarantor who is able and prepared to step in and settle amounts 
owing under the agreement if the applicant is unable to do so. And this enables Amigo to 
offer appropriate applicants more advantageous terms than they could in all probability 
obtain elsewhere.
 
9. Amigos customers tend to have impaired credit records and its products are designed 
for and aimed at them. Prior County Court Judgments (CCJs) and defaults on previous 
credit commitments are not uncommon. And by enabling customers, with a reasonable 
prospect of being able to sustain the proposed lending, to put in place a guarantor, 
Amigo provides them with an option that is normally less expensive than Overdrafts, 
Credit Cards and Payday Loans. As a result, many of Amigos customers are 
transitioning from a poor credit history to more controlled credit usage. And, with that 
being the case, debt consolidation is a common reason for applications.
 
The Lending Decisions
12. The checks Amigo made were fully compatible and compliant with the legal and 
regulatory requirements of the time  both in terms of scope and extent. And they should 
now be judged as proportionate and adequate in the circumstances of Miss Ss 
complaint as they were at the relevant times.
 
13. Our adjudicator made selective use of the facts of the complaint and the information that 
was available to Amigo in 2016 to replace its reasonable judgement as the lender with 
her own view some four years later. 
14. Amigo carefully considered an applicants credit file before agreeing to lend. Any 
outstanding credit commitments were included in its affordability assessments  ensuring 
that they were budgeted for and part of the discussions it had with them. Amigo added to 
this information a breakdown of an applicants income and expenditure  which they 
were required to disclose openly and honestly. And the information provided was verified 
in two ways:
1. Amigo used industry data  like information from a credit reference agency called 
Callcredit  to compare and assess what was disclosed as monthly income; and
2. Amigo used data from the ONS to compare and assess declared expenditure. 
If anything was unclear, incongruous or clearly important to understand, Amigo would 
have discussed that with the applicant to better understand the circumstances and identify any issues that might have suggested that the lending was likely to be 
unsustainable.
 
15. Additional inquiries of the sort that our adjudicator suggested were necessary would 
have been disproportionate and unreasonable given the type, amount and cost of the 
credit and Miss Ss financial circumstances. They would have had the effect of materially 
increasing the cost of the applications so as to make applications subject to such checks 
uneconomic. 
16. Given the size of the loans, their features and flexibilities, the risks to Miss S of poor loan 
purchases and her circumstances as disclosed, Amigos checks were proportionate. 
17. Without establishing that Amigos lending process was clearly flawed, our adjudicator 
brushed the process aside and used her own retrospective judgement about the nature 
of the information we should have obtained and the conclusions we should have drawn  
an approach Amigo doesnt think was reasonable. 
18. Our adjudicator applied her own interpretations of the information Amigo got from its 
credit searches. And her approach to the assessment supplants, without due cause or 
proper explanation, Amigos established approach as a professional and experienced 
lender with her own retrospective analysis of the position. 
19. Determining affordability requires a proportionate and balanced assessment of 
qualitative and quantitative information. Amigos process did not use automated 
judgments based on credit scoring. Instead, it involved extensive discussions with and 
disclosures by Miss S. And Amigos approach was, if anything, more extensive than 
most of its competitors each time and it is wrong to suggest that there was an obligation 
on Amigo to conduct extensive formal enquiries when deciding whether or not Miss Ss 
relatively modest loans were affordable for her.
Miss Ss Circumstances at The Relevant Time
21. Our adjudicator was selective in the information used during her assessment and she 
failed to provide a balanced account of Miss Ss circumstances as disclosed during the 
applications. As a result, our adjudicators conclusion that the loans were unaffordable 
was wrong on its own terms.
22. A more balanced and accurate account of Miss Ss circumstances at the time of Loan 
One would be that she had a declared income of £1,200 per month from her job as well 
as £87.00 in Benefits. Her declared expenditure was £587 per month. This gave her a 
net disposable income of £700. And her disclosure was full and complete. For example, 
she told Amigo that her partner paid all the rent while she managed the household bills. 
23. At the time of Loan One, Miss S had a revolving credit balance of £0 and she hadnt 
taken new credit within the last six months. And while her credit file indicated that she 
held three historically defaulted items of credit, each of them had fallen into a state of 
default some years ago. There werent, therefore, any indicators of recent debt 
problems.
24. It is important also to stress that Miss S planned to use the loan, in part, to consolidate 
all three defaults, totalling £1,151.25. Taking into account of all these facts in a balanced way, it seems to Amigo that Miss S 
was on a reasonably stable financial footing. And that underlines the proportionality and 
reasonableness of the assessment Amigo made at the time.
26. At the time of Loan Two, Miss Ss circumstances werent that different to those at the 
time of Loan One. Her income was still £1,287  which consisted of her wage and 
Benefits. Her declared expenditure was £616.31 per month, an increase of £29.31 since 
September 2016. And her disclosure was full and complete. For example, she told 
Amigo that her partner paid all the rent while she managed the household bills.
27. Once again, Miss S had a revolving credit balance of £0 and the only credit taken within 
the last 6 months was her first Amigo loan. Although Miss S hadnt consolidated her 
historically defaulted credit, there were no indicators of debt problems and these items 
were fully budgeted for in Miss Ss declared expenditure.
28. Taking into account of all these facts in a balanced way, it seems to Amigo that Miss S 
was on a reasonably stable financial footing. And that underlines the proportionality and 
reasonableness of the assessment Amigo made at the time.
31. The information provided by Miss S during her application and the checks Amigo 
completed didnt indicate any reason to be concerned about her financial circumstances 
or the affordability of the loan repayments. As such, Amigo didnt need to request 
additional information  like bank statements  as suggested by our adjudicator.
32. Having looked at some of Miss Ss bank statements, our adjudicator pointed out that 
Miss Ss monthly expenditure was more than she had led Amigo to believe and that she 
was paying her own rent. If Miss S chose to mislead Amigo by disclosing outgoings that 
were lower than they actually were and telling it that her partner was paying the rent 
when he wasnt, then it does not seem reasonable or appropriate to reward her for such 
a misleading statement. And as Amigo used automated checks to verify the information 
provided by Miss S, it suggests that it was reasonable to take into account her declared 
income when assessing affordability. 
33. Amigo verified Miss Ss income by using Callcredit to assess the reasonableness of what 
she disclosed. And given what Miss Ss bank statements indicated, her bank statements 
support Amigos position that its checks were reasonable and proportionate.
34. Checking employment contracts or bank statements was not required. And it was just 
our adjudicators view, with the benefit of hindsight, that Amigo should have done so on 
both occasions. It was not Amigos practice at the time of the applications in question to 
routinely seek written evidence from customers about the details of their employment 
status. They were asked to disclose information fully and honestly and, subject to 
checking the reasonableness of the information they provided, Amigo relied heavily on 
the information that customers provided as part of the formal application process. 
Regulation and law did not require Amigo to go further. And Amigo does not accept that 
a general requirement to make such onerous and intrusive enquiries would be clearly 
proportionate.
36. Amigo suggests that a fair assessment of the evidence should lead to the conclusion that 
Miss S could afford the loan and that it was reasonable to assess it as affordable in light 
of the information she provided and the prevailing regulatory standards of the day. 
As an informal resolution to this complaint didnt prove possible, the complaint was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me. In light of Paragraphs 13, 17, 18 and 19 of Amigos response to our adjudicators 
assessment, we asked it to provide us with copies of the scorecards and lending policy that 
were in place when Miss S took out Loans One and Two. But Amigo didnt provide either 
piece of information. And this is what it said to explain why:
As you will understand our credit scorecards form only a part of our lending [] process.  In common with most 
lenders our scorecards are adjusted regularly in the light of experience, regulatory changes, changes in the 
material provided by the credit reference agencies and changes in risk appetite. The scorecards are then built 
into our automated credit assessment systems and act as a tool to support our teams interactions with the 
potential borrowers (and guarantors). Those scorecards therefore form but one part of our lending process - for 
example a loan that may pass the scorecard might be rejected following our discussion with the customer.  As 
such your request is not at all straightforward to address in practice and risks giving something of a misleading 
picture of our overall lending assessment approach.  
I asked Amigo to provide me with recordings of the calls that it had with Miss S on 16 
September 2016 and 1 December that year  which it provided.
I also asked Miss S to tell me who was named on the tenancy agreement for the house she 
lived in and, in addition to asking her for more bank statements going back to the beginning 
of June 2016, I asked her to provide me with more information about the contributions her 
partner was making to the household bills at the time of each loan  including:
The amount he contributed;
When and how often he contributed; and
How he contributed  in other words, I asked Miss S to tell us if he gave her the money 
in cash or by bank transfer. 
In response, Miss S told me that she was the only person named on the tenancy agreement 
and provided her Deposit Protection Certificate as proof. She also told me that, as her 
partner was a builder, his contributions to the household bills were inconsistent. He 
sometimes put money on the gas and electric meters. But, otherwise, he didnt contribute a 
great deal.
Miss S also provided me with Halifax and Lloyds TSB bank statements going back to the 
beginning of April and June 2016 respectively along with an accompanying explanation of 
what was in the statements. 
Miss S told me that she hadnt paid council tax for a year prior to taking Loan One  and she 
pointed to payments to her local council that she says were for parking tickets. She also 
pointed out that some of the large sums of money put into her account were from her partner 
at the time for court fees following his divorce.
Having looked at the additional bank statements provided by Miss S, I asked her to explain 
why there was:
more cash going into her accounts than her declared earnings in June, July and August 
2016; and
less cash in September, October and November 2016.
I also pointed out to Miss S that there were transfers from her partner in July and October 
carrying the reference Rent. So, I asked her to explain the agreement she had in place with 
her partner in as much detail as she could  which included elaborating on:
what she meant when she said her partner didn't contribute a 'great deal' to the 
household bills; andwhy, with the bullet point above in mind, she told us when she first referred her complaint 
to us that she had been honest with Amigo about her partner paying the rent.
In response, Miss S told me that she wasnt sure about what was going on in 2016 because 
her circumstances were difficult at the time and it was a long time ago. She also said that 
she didnt always have time to run to the bank to deposit her wages. So, her partner 
sometimes transferred the money and she paid him back. 
But Miss S did acknowledge that the transfers from her partner referred to above could have 
been for rent before also going on to recognise that she had told Amigo that her partner 
helped to pay the household bills. However, she did go on to say that his contributions were 
inconsistent.
Having considered everything that had been said and provided so far, I issued my 
Provisional Decision on 15 December 2020 upholding the complaint in full. 
In summary, I wasnt persuaded that Amigo had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before granting either of Miss Ss loans because I thought that it had lent to her when 
there were important questions that it had left unanswered. And had Amigo carried out the 
requisite checks, I thought that the available evidence suggested that it would have 
discovered that Miss S wouldnt have been able to make the repayments without a real risk 
of undue difficulty  such that the loans couldnt reasonably have been deemed sustainable 
and, therefore, affordable. 
I gave both parties until 15 January 2021 to respond to my Provisional Decision with new 
evidence and/or arguments. Miss S acknowledged my initial findings, but she didnt have 
anything to add. Amigo didnt respond.
I looked at the complaint again with the intention of issuing my Final Decision using the 
information we had. 
Having done that, I emailed Amigo on 25 January to clarify one or two parts of my 
Provisional Findings  which I also shared with Miss S. In summary, I explained why I had 
looked at bank statements for both of her accounts covering only June, July and August 
2016 when she had provided statements for one of the accounts going back to April 2016. 
On further review of the statements, I pointed out in my email that a £10 monthly payment 
for Sky Protect looks like it was stopped after July 2016. So, it shouldnt have been included 
when adding up her regular outgoings over each of the three months I looked at. And when 
working out how much of her rent it looked like she was paying on average over June, July 
and August, I acknowledged that the £150 her partner appears to have given her for rent on 
15 July 2016 needed to be factored in more clearly with the excess cash going into her 
account.
But, having thought about what I had said, I told Amigo and Miss S that I wasnt persuaded 
that the £10 for Sky Protect or the single payment of £150 from her partner  when averaged 
out at £50 in June, July and August 2016  changed the initial outcome that I had reached. 
I thought that the loan in question was still likely to have been unaffordable as it still didnt 
look like Miss S would have had enough disposable income even if £60 was effectively 
added to it by including the money from her partner and excluding Sky Protect. 
I gave Amigo and Miss S a week to comment on the merits of the complaint in response to 
my email. And I asked them to let me know before that deadline was up if they needed more 
time to respond.Miss S acknowledged the email but had nothing to add. Amigo didnt respond.
As a result, Im now in the position to issue my Final Decision. But as neither party to this 
complaint have provided me with new arguments and/or evidence, much of what I have to 
say from here on in simply reflects what I said in my Provisional Decision  albeit in less 
detail in places.
The Legal and Regulatory Framework
Amigo lent to Miss S while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And the relevant rules and regulations that authorised firms had to follow 
are set out in the FCAs Handbook of Rules and Guidance. Those most relevant to this 
complaint are: 
1. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN) 
This part of the FCAs Handbook set out the overarching requirements that all authorised 
firms were required to comply with at the time of the events complained about.
The Principles themselves were set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle 
to this complaint was PRIN 2.1.1 R (6)  which said that A firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
2. The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
This part of the FCAs Handbook sets out the rules that apply to providers of consumer 
credit  like Amigo. And in light of the complaint in question, I think the most relevant 
section is CONC 5  which sets out an authorised firms obligations when lending 
responsibly. 
These rules have been updated since 16 September and 1 December 2016. So, I refer 
below to some of the rules as they were at the time Amigo lent to Miss S.
CONC 5.2.1R(2) set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to provide a consumer
with credit  which includes a regulated credit agreement of the type in question. It says a 
firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact 
the customer's financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is aware at the time 
the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, to make repayments within a 
reasonable period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments.
CONC 5.2.3G:
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a 
given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the 
following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is experiencing or has 
experienced financial difficulties;(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in respect of other credit 
agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, 
electricity, gas, telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have a significant financial 
adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the customer has some form of 
mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to be so because the customer displays indications of 
some form of mental capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10).
CONC 5.2.4G(2): 
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example, the type 
and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable 
directly relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers
financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further guidance on what a lender had to keep in mind when thinking
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1): 
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take 
into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2): 
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm 
taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement 
in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(4):
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its assessment required 
under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
(a) the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably expected future income 
or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ 
from actual current income or expenditure over the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customer's income and 
expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer;
CONC 5.3.1G(6):
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit agreement can be 
made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, within a 
reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.2R:
A firm must establish and implement clear and effective policies and procedures to make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment or a reasonable assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
CONC 5.3.3G:
Under the procedures required by CONC 5.3.2 R a firm should take adequate steps, insofar as it is reasonable 
and practicable to do so, to ensure that information (including information supplied by the customer) on an 
application for credit relevant to a creditworthiness assessment or an assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1) is complete and correct.
CONC 5.3.7R: 
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought 
reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to 
information supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Other Relevant Publications
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers had to 
follow. But the framework represented a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive said 
before, Im also required to take into account any other relevant guidance and, when 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice.
Review of Relending by High-Cost Lenders: The FCAs Findings
On 6 August 2020, the FCA published its findings following its review of relending by lenders 
in its high-cost lending portfolio (which Amigo is included in). I accept that this (as well as the 
Portfolio Strategy Letter Ill go on to refer to) was published sometime after Miss Ss loans 
were agreed. But, as the review dealt with how firms ought to be handling complaints about 
historic lending being unaffordable, I think it offers some insight on the FCAs perspective on 
the rules. And as a result, I consider it to be of some relevance in this complaint.   
Under the section called Relending and Customer Outcomes, the report said:
Firms should ensure that relending leads to positive customer outcomes and does not cause harm.
Our analysis of data provided by firms and our consumer research shows breaches of specific rules as well as 
breaches of our principles for business. In this report, we set out what we have found, our expectations and 
examples of what firms can do to meet these principles. 
From developments in the market, including trends in Financial Ombudsman Service complaints and a number of 
high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC) firms entering administration as a result of liabilities for complaints, we can 
see the consequences for firms that fail to adequately assess affordability or relend in a way that is sustainable 
for their customers.
Across the portfolio, we have seen levels of debt increasing as customers take additional loans. We did not 
generally observe additional credit being used to maintain existing levels of debt. Some customers told us they 
have experienced financial difficulties caused by relending and related anxiety and stress. Many regret their 
additional borrowing and the consequent financial position they find themselves in.
High-cost credit customers are more likely to be vulnerable, have low financial resilience and poor credit 
histories. They often hold multiple credit products and have to juggle repayments, sometimes having to decide 
which priority debts to pay when they dont have enough for all. We have significant concerns that repeat 
borrowing could be a strong indicator of a pattern of dependency on high-cost credit and levels of debt that are 
harmful to the customer.
We therefore expect firms not to encourage refinancing of credit agreements where the customers commitments 
are not sustainable. We also expect firms to only agree to refinance if they reasonably believe that it is not 
against the customer's best interests to do so.From our analysis, we have seen that this is not always the case and we set out our views of the potential drivers 
of harm and request that firms assess their relending operations to ensure they remain appropriate and 
consistent with our principles.
Customers have also told us they rely on credit and, despite wanting to be in a better financial position, they are 
used to living in debt and expect to need to continue to borrow in the future. We have seen firms servicing 
customers needs by providing additional borrowing. But we are concerned that relending can move from a 
positive customer experience into one which causes harm.
For all high-cost lending business models in our sample, relending is a significant part of their business. Many 
firms, particularly those offering small value loans, do not make a profit on a customers first loan. Profitability in 
high-cost lending firms is therefore mainly driven by relending. For nearly all firms, profitability increases for 
subsequent loans, in many cases substantially.
Under the section called Increasing Levels of Debt and Repayments, the report said:
The level of debt and repayments can increase significantly, to the point where it is no longer affordable 
or sustainable for some customers.
We reviewed a sample of the borrowing history of around 250,000 customers to better understand the customer 
journey with each firm in our sample. We saw that relending caused both the level of debt and repayment amount 
to increase nearly every time further borrowing was taken.
We remind firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018, sent to all HCSTC firms (but which equally applies to 
other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In that, we highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given 
that it could indicate a pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability 
assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making proportionate and 
responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing. Further, firms must not encourage a customer to 
refinance a regulated credit agreement if the result would be the customer's commitments are not sustainable.
We are concerned in some instances to see levels of debt and repayments increase significantly. We saw levels 
of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period. Figures 1 and 2 show how a typical customers overall debt 
and repayments can escalate to considerable levels.
At some point, rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become unsustainable for customers. From our 
consumer research, we are concerned that firms are lending to customers beyond levels which they can sensibly 
manage and causing customer harm as a result. Notably:
48% of customers told us that they had to cut back on other spending to make their loan repayments
37% told us they had missed payments on their rent, mortgage, utility bills or council tax in the last 6 months, to 
ensure they could make repayments on their relending
16% of customers reported their most recent relending was taken to repay debt with other firms
45% of customers told us they regretted taking out additional lending
45% of customers said they had experienced anxiety and stress in the previous few weeks because of financial 
difficulties
We are particularly concerned to see behaviour which suggests some customers may be managing financial 
difficulties through further borrowing. We consider that additional borrowing should not be used, in effect, as a 
debt management solution. When considering an application for refinancing where the firm is aware that the 
customer is a regular user and appears dependant on high-cost credit we expect the firm to assess the 
customers best interests. They do this by considering the customers overall financial situation and whether 
forbearance or debt advice might be more appropriate than additional lending.
We are also concerned to see some firms not taking their responsibilities to assess affordability for repeat 
borrowers as seriously as we would expect. For example, rather than gather up-to-date customer information, 
some firms ask customers to confirm there have been no changes in their financial circumstances since the last 
affordability check was completed and some online applications pre-fill answers with the last details given. While 
we recognise that firms may want to streamline and automate their processes, they must base every lending 
decision on up-to-date and accurate information.
There has been some debate in the HCSTC market about how our creditworthiness rules should apply to repeat 
lending.Other than for rollovers, our rules do not expressly prevent firms from issuing more than a particular number of 
loans to a customer. However, firms do still need to comply with our creditworthiness rules in doing so, including 
assessing the affordability risk to the borrower. This is a view shared by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Under the section called Relending, Profitability and Consumer Harm, the report said:
 
Relending accounts for a high proportion of business and drives profitability in many firms, which gives 
rise to customer harm.
In addition to examining customer loan histories, we also reviewed a sample of firms loan books to understand 
the proportion of and growth in relending over a 3-year period.
We identified that most firms had more repeat than first-time borrowers and repeat borrowers accounted for more 
than 80% of all customers at many firms. We recognise there are additional financial costs of acquiring new 
customers and acknowledge there are commercial reasons for lending to existing customers rather than 
expanding the customer base. However, we remind firms of their requirement to lend responsibly and to be 
mindful that driving profitability through repeat lending has the potential to lead to poor customer outcomes if not 
properly managed.
Having looked at customer lending journeys we are concerned that some customers may be suffering harm 
because of over indebtedness and we expect firms to review their lending practices and operations to ensure 
they are appropriately discharging their obligations to lend responsibly.
FCA Portfolio Strategy Letter to Firms Providing High Cost Lending Products 
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officers of the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers and the markets they operate in. 
On page two of this letter, the FCA set out its view of the key causes of harm. It said: 
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across the High Cost Lenders 
portfolio: 
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns 
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may not be able to afford. 
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor lending: 
the proportion of loan repayments that guarantors make has risen considerably, which could indicate that 
affordability on the part of the borrowers is falling.
On page three of the letter, under the title Complaints, the FCA said: 
We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including analysing the root causes of complaints and taking into 
account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant decisions. We gave further detail about what we expect 
from firms complaint-handling procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. 
This is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.  
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
Handbook to take into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; (c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I] consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
But when the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on 
what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending on our website. And having taken this into account along with everything else I need 
to consider, Ive decided that this complaint should still be upheld.  
I realise this might be disappointing for Amigo. But I hope my explanation helps it to 
understand why Ive come to the conclusion I have.
Under the legal and regulatory framework Ive set out above, Amigo was obliged to lend 
responsibly. This meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Miss S could afford to 
meet the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the terms of the loan agreements in 
question. 
As Ive said before, the FCA didnt specify what level of detail such an assessment might 
require  nor did it set out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in practice. 
Instead, it said that the necessary level of detail when carrying out a requisite assessment 
would depend on the risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation  
though it wouldnt necessarily be limited to that.
But the guidance in CONC did define the notion of sustainably repaying debt as being able 
to meet the repayments of a credit agreement without undue difficulty. And that includes 
being able to make repayments on time and without taking on additional borrowing to do so 
while also meeting other reasonable commitments.
And with that being the case, Amigos assessment of Miss Ss circumstances before each 
loan application had to be borrower-focused  which means that, while it wasnt prevented 
from assessing its own risk as a lender, it had to assess the risk to Miss S as a borrower. 
As a result, I think there are a number of overarching questions I need to consider when 
deciding a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Amigo has suggested that it doesnt necessarily accept that some of these 
represent a safe and appropriate basis on which an ombudsman should decide this type of 
complaint. But it still hasnt proposed an alternative nor has it argued persuasively that the 
questions arent relevant to Miss Ss complaint. 
The questions are:
   
1. Did Amigo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
 
i. If Amigo carried out such checks, did it lend responsibly using the information it 
had? 
Orii. If Amigo didnt carry out such checks, would the requisite checks have shown it 
that Miss S was likely to have been able to borrow in a sustainable way? 
2. Was there a point when Amigo ought reasonably to have realised that it was increasing 
Miss Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  such that 
it shouldnt have lent her any more money?
3. Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
4. Did Miss S lose out as a result of any of Amigos mistakes? 
Did Amigo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S would 
be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
In addition to being borrower-focused, Amigos checks had to be proportionate to the specific 
circumstances of each loan application. 
What constituted proportionate checks will depend on several factors. And for that reason, 
I agree with Amigo that determining what these checks looked like in practice at the time 
wasnt an exact science  and Id say thats still the case now. 
However, many of the factors relevant to determining what such checks looked like did relate 
to Miss Ss financial circumstances  which included, though werent necessarily limited to, 
her financial history and outlook along with her situation as it was, including signs of 
vulnerability and/or financial difficulty.
Ahead of my Provisional Decision, Amigo made the general observation that its products 
were and are designed for and aimed at customers who tend to have impaired credit records 
 which is why it also said that prior County Court Judgments (CCJs) and defaults on 
previous credit commitments arent uncommon amongst its applicants. The underlying point 
to these general observations wasnt clear to me from Amigos written submissions. But as 
I said in my Provisional Decision, Amigo also says that it can offer credit on more 
advantageous terms for many of those who might not be able to obtain such credit 
elsewhere. And so, Im still inclined to think that it was suggesting that its responsibilities as 
a lender should be viewed in that context.
But, as I said and as Amigo will be aware, there are two primary components to 
creditworthiness: affordability and credit risk. And while I continue to accept that its Amigos 
prerogative to manage the latter when it lends to those who have or are moving on from a 
poor credit history, the same still cant be said of the former.
The FCA said in August 2020 that High-cost credit customers are more likely to be 
vulnerable, have low financial resilience and poor credit histories. They often hold multiple 
credit products and have to juggle repayments, sometimes having to decide which priority 
debts to pay when they dont have enough for all.  
And in the Narrative Report that accompanied the FCAs review of relending by high-cost 
lenders1, the section on guarantor loans said:  
Of the 6 products within the scope of this research, guarantor loans sat near the top in terms of their impact on 
borrower wellbeing. Two fifths (40%) of borrowers regretted their decision to reborrow, and of those, 44% claimed 
their additional borrowing has had an overall negative impact on their wellbeing. In the qualitative interviews it 
emerged that guarantor loan customers often had a wide portfolio of credit products, and as a result, the stress 
and anxiety experienced by reborrowers came from their general financial situation, rather than their guarantor 
1 P47 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/research/relending-high-cost-credit-market-narrative-report.pdfloan specifically  although guarantor loans certainly contributed. Additionally, the involvement of a guarantor 
had the potential to increase the pressure felt by borrowers to repay, as they did not want to default and the 
guarantor has to bear the consequences. 
The qualitative research showed that borrowers often had complex borrowing histories. Many had got into 
difficulty in the past with mainstream and/or high cost credit. This led to them needing a guarantor in order to 
secure credit due to their own poor credit scores. There was also evidence of the total cost of borrowers loans 
snowballing after multiple top ups. Consideration of the total cost of the loan tended to be secondary to the 
perceived need for the top up and the affordability of monthly repayments. Given the large sums of money 
involved with this type of credit, there was a high potential for harm in this area due to the long term burden of 
debt and increasing monthly repayments. When speaking to the guarantors, in the main they appeared to be well 
informed about and involved in the top up process  although this was not always the case. All the guarantors 
we spoke to were close to the borrower; typically a parent but also other relatives, friends and in one case a 
partner. The guarantors all wanted to help their loved one out and had high levels of trust in them. However, 
borrowers did not always appear to have disclosed the full extent of their financial situation, or their use of other 
credit products, to their guarantor.
For these reasons, the point I think Amigo was trying to make when it stressed the 
importance of the market it operated in cuts both ways. It remains  in my view  precisely 
because of the nature of Amigos customer base that the importance of reasonable and 
proportionate checks cant be over-stated. 
So, while Amigo offered a product that it believes may have had certain advantages over 
other types of credit, guarantees and indemnities didnt diminish or dilute Amigos obligation 
to assess whether a customer (Miss S on this occasion) could meet the prospective 
repayments without undue difficulty. Putting in place a guarantor who could (in theory) step 
in on behalf of Miss S if she was unable to make her repayments didnt change that; Amigo 
still had to take appropriate steps to establish that she could afford what she wanted to 
borrow in her own right. And for that reason, I still think that the market Amigo operated in is 
relevant to this complaint to the extent that it highlights the importance of its obligations.
There are, of course, many factors that could be relevant when determining how detailed 
proportionate checks should have been. CONC 5.2.3G, quoted earlier on in this decision, 
lists some examples. And while much will depend on the circumstances in question, the 
more obvious factors include  though arent necessarily limited to  the type of credit Miss S 
was applying for along with the size, length and cost of the borrowing.
In general terms, therefore, I still dont think its unreasonable to suggest that reasonable and
proportionate checks ought to have been more thorough when:
the customers income was lower  reflecting the possibility that it could have been
more difficult to make the repayments as a result;
the amount repayable was higher  reflecting the possibility that it could have been
more difficult to meet a higher repayment, especially from a lower level of income;
the loan term was longer  reflecting the fact that the more time over which
repayments had to be made, the greater the total cost of the credit; and
there was repeated borrowing, especially if it was frequent and/or it increased the
period during which a customer was indebted  all of which reflects the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable.
And as a result, I still think it follows that the circumstances in which its reasonable to 
conclude that a less detailed affordability assessment is reasonable and proportionate are 
more likely to be limited to applicants whose financial situation was stable and whose 
borrowing was relatively insignificant.
Amigos Checks: Loan OneMiss S started her application for a loan online  completing an income and expenditure 
assessment when doing so. She was then phoned by Amigo shortly afterwards to discuss 
the application and complete the process.
Having listened to that phone call, its apparent that Amigo relied heavily on what Miss S had 
declared about her income and expenditure when determining her ability to repay this loan 
sustainably. And I say this because the conversation between the parties focused very little
on unpacking or elaborating on much of what Miss S had declared online.
That might have been because Amigo says that, subject to testing how reasonable an 
applicants declaration was, it relied heavily on the information that applicants provided as 
part of the formal application process.
I dont think it was or is unreasonable of Amigo to expect applicants  including Miss S  to 
answer questions about their financial circumstances in good faith when applying for a loan. 
But as I said in my Provisional Decision, to go further than this and rely heavily on an 
applicants declaration in the way Amigo appears to have done on this occasion did run the 
risk of it overlooking its responsibility to properly scrutinise the information Miss S had 
provided  especially when it was apparent that her ability to make the repayments hinged 
on contributions from her partner to her rent. 
Amigo says that it verified the information provided by applicants in two ways using 
automated checks:
1. It used industry data  like information from a credit reference agency called Callcredit  
to compare and assess what was disclosed as monthly income; and
2. It used data from the ONS to compare and assess declared expenditure against national 
averages. 
Amigo will be aware that we asked it to provide us with copies of the scorecards and lending 
policy that were in place when Miss S took this loan to help us understand what its process 
looked like in more detail. But  having told us that this request wasnt straightforward to 
address in practice and risks giving a misleading picture  it didnt provide either of those 
before I issued my Provisional Decision. And it still hasnt done so.
As a result, I still only know that Amigo verified an applicants income and expenditure 
declaration in two ways. And as Amigo still hasnt given us a breakdown of the data it got 
when assessing Miss Ss application in September 2016 nor an explanation of the data it 
relied on and why, it still isnt clear  for example  how proximate to the industry and 
national averages Miss Ss declared income and expenditure were according to the data 
Amigo saw. 
Whats more, national averages are  as I said in my Provisional Decision  based on the 
finances of the average individual. And as Miss S had an impaired credit record, its possible 
for the reasons Ive set out below that she wasnt comparable to the control group Amigo 
chose to use. Yet Amigo still hasnt explained why it was appropriate to use national 
averages as a means of verification.
And with all of that continuing to be the case, the lack of information and explanation from 
Amigo continues to make it difficult to assess the veracity of its results and, in turn, 
determine how meaningful its verification was at the time of this loan  especially when the 
FCA, as Ive said before, has described seeing evidence of some lenders accepting 
customer declarations even when their validation checks against third party data gave 
grounds for only low levels of confidence in those declarations.But, as I said in my Provisional Decision, I do have concerns about Amigos decision to rely 
on its automated checks on this occasion anyway. 
I say this because Amigo calculated that Miss S  whose declared monthly income was 
recorded as £1,287  had disposable income of £700 each month before the monthly 
repayments for this loan were taken into account. And it came to that calculation largely 
because it accepted, without much question, the information declared by Miss S  including 
what she said about her partner paying the rent for the property she was living in. 
Yet the information Amigo got from both its credit search and Miss S during its phone call 
with her raised a number of questions about the information she had provided. 
Miss Ss main wage appears to have been recorded by Amigo as £1,200 from one full-time 
position at a bar. However, 5 minutes and 56 seconds into the call between the parties, 
she mentioned  albeit in passing  that she had two jobs. And while I acknowledged in my 
Provisional Decision that Amigo did appear to recognise the apparent discrepancy between 
the information provided by Miss S online and her declaration during its phone call with her, 
it didnt prompt a further conversation at that time. 
However, Amigo will be aware that CONC 5.3.1G (4)(b) says that it is not generally 
sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income and 
expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer. And as Amigos 
automated check of Miss Ss income still appears to have been run against one job rather 
than two, it looks like the result was in question. And with that being the case, its still not 
entirely clear why that part of the conversation wasnt subject to more scrutiny when it 
arguably should have been given the apparent discrepancy.
Whats more, Miss Ss credit file indicated that she had three accounts in default. And while 
I realise that they went into default some time before this loan, they still hadnt been settled. 
As a result, I still find it difficult to explain why  if Amigos calculation that Miss S had £700 
in disposable income each month was reliable  she was applying for a loan with an interest 
rate of 49.9%. After all, the total amount outstanding across all three defaulted accounts was 
£1,151. And for someone whose disposable income was calculated to represent over 50% of 
what she took home each month, I continue to find it surprising that the accounts still hadnt 
been settled years after they first went into default. Instead, I think there were real questions, 
based on the information Amigo had, as to whether Miss Ss financial circumstances were as 
it had recorded.
However, as Ive said before, Im not saying that there arent circumstances in which Amigo 
could lend to a customer who has an impaired credit file. The point Im making here is that 
greater care needed to be taken in these circumstances to ensure that this loan could be 
sustainably repaid based on her position as it was at the time  a point CONC makes when it 
refers to the borrowers financial circumstances being relevant to determining the 
proportionality of any checks.
And while I still recognise that Miss S hadnt taken new credit in the six months prior to this 
loan and had relatively little by way of existing debt, there remains  in my view  a 
fundamental tension between the accounts in default and how much disposable income 
she was calculated to have  which, in turn, cast some doubt over her ability to make the 
repayments on time and without undue difficulty. And without a more thorough 
understanding of Miss Ss financial circumstances with that being the case, Im still not 
convinced that Amigo could have reassured itself that there wasnt an issue when the 
information it was using to make its decision was, at best, inconsistent and, at worst, 
inaccurate.And this is, as Ive said, especially the case when it was apparent that Miss Ss ability to 
make the repayments hinged on her partner  who Amigo knew was running his own 
business  paying at least a proportion of her rent each month. 
As a result, I remain unconvinced that Amigo could have reasonably concluded that 
Miss Ss declared income and outgoings didnt warrant further scrutiny. And while I know 
that it says that it would have made certain efforts to get to the bottom of anything that had 
been unclear, incongruous or clearly important to understand, it didnt  in my view  do that 
on this occasion. Amigos call with Miss S was relatively brief and it focused very little on 
much of what she had declared online. And as there still isnt any other persuasive evidence 
to indicate that it made such efforts at some other time, I can only conclude that it doesnt 
appear to have taken the steps that it says it would have done.
Overall, therefore, as the checks Amigo carried out threw up a number of questions that I still 
think it needed to answer to ensure it wasnt brushing over a possible affordability concern, it 
follows that Im still not persuaded that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
having left those questions unanswered.
Amigos Checks: Loan Two
Having listened to the call between Amigo and Miss S on 1 December 2016, its apparent 
that Amigo continued to rely heavily on what she had declared about her income and 
expenditure when determining her ability to repay this loan sustainably as the conversation 
on this occasion  like the conversation three months or so earlier in September  didnt 
focus an awful lot on unpacking or elaborating on much of what Miss S had declared. 
At roughly 1 minute and 58 seconds into the call (which was 6 minutes and 33 seconds in 
total), Amigo did ask Miss S if her income had changed since Loan One before going on to 
list her outgoings, make one or two observations about the findings of its credit search and 
ask her if she anticipated any changes in her circumstances over the term of this loan. But, 
having covered all of that by roughly 4 minutes and 20 seconds, it did so  in my view  in 
only a very passing way.   
Amigo says that, subject to testing how reasonable an applicants declaration was, it relied 
heavily on the information that applicants provided as part of the formal application process. 
And as Ive said before, that might explain why Amigo went to the lengths it went to during 
the application process for this loan as well.
However, as Ive also already said, relying heavily on an applicants declaration in the way 
Amigo appears to have done at the time of this loan as well as Loan One did run the risk of it 
overlooking its responsibility to properly scrutinise the information Miss S had provided  
especially when, on this occasion, she was now a repeat borrower whose ability to make the 
repayments continued to hinge on contributions from her partner to her rent. 
And when a customers debt is on the rise and they have to make and maintain a higher 
monthly payment for a longer period of time as a result (which was the situation that Miss S 
found herself in on this occasion), an affordability assessment should  in my view  be 
more thorough and subject to a greater degree of verification in order to be deemed 
reasonable and proportionate.
I know that Amigo says that it verified the information provided by applicants in two ways 
using automated checks. But Ive already explained why a lack of information about and 
explanation of these checks makes it difficult to assess the veracity of Amigos results and, in turn, determine how meaningful its verification was. And, as Ive said before, I continue to 
have some concerns about Amigos decision to rely on its automated checks anyway.
Amigo calculated that Miss S  whose declared monthly income was recorded as £1,287  
had disposable income of just over £670 each month before the monthly repayments for this 
loan were taken into account. And it reached that calculation largely because it accepted, 
without much question, the information declared by Miss S.
But it remains my view that Amigo appears to have treated Miss Ss application for this loan 
in isolation from Loan One. And with that being the case, it looks like it failed to consider the 
whole picture and take into account what she had declared only a few months earlier when 
assessing the plausibility of what she was now declaring. 
For example, while its unclear what role (if any) the purpose of an applicants loan plays in 
an application, the purpose of both of Miss Ss loans included the purchase of a car. Yet, on 
this occasion, Amigo appears to have accepted that she was borrowing more money to 
purchase a car without questioning why she was purchasing two of them in the space of just 
under three months  especially when the difference between the amount lent for this 
purpose and Miss Ss disposable income since Loan One only raises further questions. 
Whats more, the information Amigo got from its credit search indicated that there were still 
three accounts in default despite what Miss S said about the purpose of Loan One being 
their consolidation.  
For that reason, I still find it even more difficult to explain why  if Miss S had just over £670 
in disposable income each month  she was applying for another loan, for more money over 
a longer term, with an interest rate of 49.9% only a few months after taking the first. After all, 
the total amount outstanding across all three accounts wasnt hugely different to what it was 
at the time of Loan One. And for someone whose disposable income was calculated to still 
represent over 50% of what she took home each month, I find it surprising that the accounts 
still hadnt been settled  unless, as Ive said already, Miss Ss financial circumstances 
werent as they seemed.
I still recognise that Miss S doesnt appear to have taken new credit apart from Loan One 
and had relatively little by way of existing debt. But there remains, in my view, a fundamental 
tension between the accounts in default and how much disposable income Miss S was 
calculated to have. And without a more thorough understanding of her financial 
circumstances with that being the case, Im still not convinced that Amigo could have 
reassured itself that there wasnt an issue when the information it was using to make its 
decision was, as Ive said before, inconsistent if not inaccurate.
And as this continues to be the case when it was apparent that Miss Ss ability to make the 
repayments continued to hinge on her partner paying at least a proportion of her rent each 
month, Im still not convinced that Amigo could have reasonably concluded that 
Miss Ss declared income and outgoings didnt warrant further scrutiny this time around. And 
while Amigo says that it would have made certain efforts to get to the bottom of anything that 
had been unclear, incongruous or clearly important to understand, there still isnt any 
persuasive evidence to suggest that it did that. As a result, the checks that Amigo carried out still look like they threw up a number of 
questions that I remain satisfied it needed to answer to ensure it wasnt brushing over a 
possible affordability concern for a second time. And for that reason, Im still not persuaded 
that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks having left those questions 
unanswered on this occasion.
Reasonable and Proportionate Checks: Loan One
While Ive concluded that reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out by Amigo 
before it agreed to grant this loan, it isnt possible to determine with certainty what such 
checks would have shown Amigo in practice as I still dont know what checks it would have 
decided to carry out.
As a result, what Im deciding here is the likelihood of reasonable and proportionate checks 
showing Amigo that Miss S would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan. And to 
make that decision, it remains not only reasonable but necessary to now consider 
information that Amigo hadnt considered at the time.
Given the discrepancies that Ive continued to argue were present when Miss S applied for 
this loan, Amigo could have verified the relevant aspects of her declaration by asking her for 
bank statements, copies of bills and/or payslips for example. 
However, as the crux of our adjudicators argument focused on what Miss S had declared 
about her rent being paid by her partner at the time, Miss S provided us with bank 
statements for accounts held with Halifax and Lloyds TSB. 
I accept that something that we can now see from the information Miss S has provided 
wouldnt necessarily have been disclosed by whatever reasonable and proportionate checks 
Amigo might have decided to carry out. But, in the absence of anything else from Amigo, 
I still dont think its unreasonable to rely on Miss Ss bank statements when determining 
what her financial circumstances were likely to have been like before she applied for this 
loan.
As Ive explained before, Amigo had a responsibility to ensure that Miss S could make her 
loan repayments sustainably  even if that meant going further than a simple pounds and 
pence calculation. 
Miss Ss bank statements werent and still arent the easiest to decipher as she regularly 
transferred money between her accounts while a lot of what went into her accounts was in 
cash  including, as she says, her wages. And as a result, it remains difficult to determine 
what the bank statements say about Miss Ss monthly income before this loan. But, despite 
that, Im still not persuaded that its likely to have been less than what she declared at the 
time. 
Miss S told us that she was earning £300 a week  which, being the monthly equivalent of 
£1,300, is more than the monthly income she declared to Amigo. Her bank statements for 
June, July and August 2016 suggest that £1,535, £1,410 and £1,770 was deposited in cash 
in each month respectively. And having looked at her Lloyds TSB statements, I can see what 
appear to have been Child Benefit payments of £82.80 on 21 June, 18 July and 16 August.
The bank statements do reveal a number of Miss Ss regular outgoings over the course of 
June, July and August 2016 more clearly  including average payments of roughly:
£53 to Sky Digital;
£10 to Sky Protect (which look like they ended after July);£31 to Capital One;
£102 to Halifax;
£50 to Rossandales;
£10 to BW Legal;
£24 to AXA Insurance;
£24 to TV Licencing;
£10 to AIG Life (which look like they started in August); and
£680 for rent.
They also suggest that Miss S spent an average of approximately £250 per month in 
supermarkets over those same three months. 
However, I still cant identify Miss Ss spending on travel/transport and clothing. And I still 
cant see any obvious payments for utilities or council tax  assuming the payments to 
Torbay Council in June, July and August 2016 were for parking tickets as Miss S says.
As a result, it remains difficult to verify all of Miss Ss declared monthly outgoings using the 
bank statements weve got. But Im still not convinced that being able to do so in even more 
detail is crucial.
As I said in my Provisional Decision, the list immediately above suggests that Miss S had 
regular commitments of roughly £494 a month on average if I exclude her rent, Sky Protect 
and the payments to Rossandales and BW Legal  which I still understand were a large part 
of what she paid towards the outstanding balances she told Amigo she intended to 
consolidate when she took this loan.
And with that being the case, once Miss Ss utilities, council tax, travel, transport and 
clothing are included, I still dont think its implausible to suggest that her regular monthly 
outgoings appear to have been higher than what had been declared and recorded by Amigo 
 which must mean, in my view, that the gap between her net monthly income and her 
overall expenditure month-to-month was narrower than calculated at the time.
I know that Miss S told us that she had been behind on her council tax for a year when she 
applied for this loan and eventually entered a Debt Relief Order in July 2017 as a result. 
Had Amigo seen the bank statements Ive seen, and cross referenced them with the various 
outgoings Miss S had declared at the time, I still think its likely to have noticed the following 
debit card payments to Torbay Council: 
£75 on 20 June 2016;
£70 on 7 July 2016; and
£70 on 24 August 2016.
But, as two of the three payments match what Miss S had declared as her monthly council 
tax payment, Im still not convinced that these transactions  when looked at in isolation  
should and would have led Amigo to go further and question her about this outgoing.
As for Miss Ss rent, £680 was taken from one of her accounts on the 1st of all three months 
prior to September 2016. And theres still nothing persuasive to suggest that those payments 
were matched by contributions from her partner for the same amount.
However, I remain conscious that Miss S did declare that her partner covered the rent in full 
when she applied for this loan online  which she went on to repeat during her phone call 
with Amigo when questioned about it. She told us on more than one occasion that he contributed to the household bills, including the rent, each month. And as Ive said before, 
this was also something she made a point of saying she was honest about when she applied 
for this loan. 
Miss S did tell us not that long before my Provisional Decision that her partners 
contributions werent as significant as she suggested when she applied for this loan. But 
I still think that was at odds with much of what she had to say on the subject throughout this 
complaint. And as it is apparent from the bank statements we have that there was a transfer 
into one of Miss Ss bank accounts of £150 on 15 July 2016 from her partner with the 
reference Rent, I still find Miss Ss most recent submissions difficult to reconcile with the 
information Ive seen  including the numerous occasions on which she willingly suggested 
the opposite. 
When Miss S told us in an email on 10 March 2020 that her partner helped her to pay the 
household bills, she did say that he sometimes did so in cash. And with that being the case, 
I did compare how much cash was deposited into her accounts in June, July and August 
2016 with what she told Amigo and has since told us her declared income from earnings 
was. 
As I said in my Provisional Decision, £1,535, £1,410 and £1,770 was deposited in cash in 
June, July and August respectively. So, it does look like there was cash going into her 
accounts over and above her earnings. We did ask Miss S to explain the cash deposits 
going into her accounts. But her efforts to explain her bank statements in response  as well 
as the explanations that she had voluntarily given us at various points throughout this 
complaint  were very general in nature. And while I still dont find that especially surprising 
given how long ago this loan was applied for, it did and still does make it more difficult to pin 
point what was going into her accounts in order to determine the state of her financial 
circumstances  including, in particular, whether the excess cash Ive referred to above can 
be explained as contributions from her partner each month. 
I did acknowledge in my Provisional Decision that its possible that some of the cash 
deposited into Miss Ss accounts over the course of June, July and August was the money 
she says her partner kept in her account following his divorce. But as she hadnt and still 
hasnt made any specific reference to the amounts that he put into her account for that 
purpose, or the length of time that he did that for, there still isnt the evidence to persuade 
me thats a more plausible and probable explanation.
In my view, therefore, while the evidence we have may not be the clearest, it still looks like 
Miss Ss partner probably was contributing in some shape or form at the time of this loan. 
And had Amigo seen the bank statements Ive seen, and questioned Miss S about her 
finances, Im still not persuaded  in light of what Ive said above  that she wouldnt have 
told Amigo that some of the money over and above her earnings was the result of 
contributions from her partner given how consistent she has been about the issue.
However, as Ive said before, Miss Ss bank statements dont make it easy to determine the 
likely size and regularity of the contributions from her partner without a line by line 
explanation from her  which, four years on, has inevitably proved difficult.
As things stand, there was only one payment prior to this loan from Miss Ss partner for her 
rent over the course of June, July and August 2016  and that was the £150 on 15 July. And 
as theres nothing persuasive in the bank statements Ive looked at to suggest that her 
partner was giving her £680 each month, I still think it follows that Amigos calculation of 
Miss Ss disposable income would have been lower than it was had it seen what Ive seen. Exactly how much lower Amigos calculation would have been is difficult to determine given 
the nature of Miss Ss bank statements. But even if I accept  for arguments sake  that all 
of the cash deposited into Miss Ss accounts in June, July and August over and above her 
earnings can be explained as contributions from her partner to the household bills (rent 
included), Im still not persuaded that Amigo could have reasonably recorded her rent as £0 
as part of its income and expenditure assessment had it seen and interrogated the 
information Ive seen as a result of its own reasonable and proportionate checks.
Indeed, if the cash going into Miss Ss accounts over and above her income from earnings 
can be explained in that way, the average amount given to her by her partner in June, July 
and August 2016 was either:
£371.66 if Miss Ss net monthly income from earnings was £1,200  which is the amount
she declared at the time of this loan; or
£271.66 if Miss Ss net monthly income from earnings was the equivalent of £300 a week 
 which is the amount she declared more recently. 
That, in turn, would have meant that Miss S was paying  on average in very rough terms  
either £258 or £358 of the £680 payable in rent in each of those months once the £150 
transferred on 15 July is averaged out over the three months in question. And when those 
averages are added to the £494 in outgoings Ive listed above, her monthly expenditure 
looks more like £752 or £852. But if I include Miss Ss utilities, travel/transport, clothing and 
council tax, and even if I assume  for arguments sake once again  that those were more 
likely to reflect what was declared at the time of this loan rather than what Miss S shared 
more recently, for example, her monthly expenditure only increases to £1,092 or £1,192.
And on either of these measures, I still think that this loan is likely to have been unaffordable 
on a simple pounds and pence basis as it doesnt look like Miss S would have had enough 
disposable income once her verified outgoings had been taken into account.
Whats more, even if the size of Miss Ss partners contributions before this loan were more 
significant than the current evidence suggests, how sustainable this loan was also turned on 
whether it would have been reasonable of Amigo to rely on her partners contributions  
whatever they were  when making that determination using the information Ive now seen.
And in short, I still dont think it would have been reasonable. 
When Miss S applied for this loan, she did so in only her name  which means she was the 
only person responsible for the repayments. As a result, Amigo had to satisfy itself that she 
could afford the loan on her own. And as Ive said before, it had to ensure that she could 
make the repayments sustainably when doing that. That means she had to be able to repay 
this loan without undue difficulty  which includes not having to forgo other reasonable 
commitments or borrow to meet the repayments.
Yet, were it not for a minimum contribution from Miss Ss partner each and every month, she 
simply wouldnt have had the money to make the repayments given what the evidence 
suggests her income and expenditure looked like. 
I acknowledge that Miss S did tell Amigo in September 2016 that she was confident that her 
partner would pay the rent for loan term. But theres nothing in the bank statements covering 
the three months before this loan that suggests that her partner had set up a mandated 
payment each month  like a Standing Order for example. And the statements dont  in my 
view  suggest that he was making contributions that Amigo could have reasonably 
described as consistent  assuming, of course, that it would have even been willing to assume, for more than the sake of an argument, that the cash going into Miss Ss accounts 
over and above her income from earnings was from her partner to help pay the rent.
And with that being the case, I still dont think theres the evidence to argue that Amigo could 
reasonably have had the confidence to conclude that Miss Ss partner would have made the 
requisite contributions each and every month for the not insignificant period of three years. 
As a result, I still think that reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have 
demonstrated that Miss S would not have been able to make the repayments for this loan 
without a real risk of undue difficulty. And if Amigo knew, as I still think it ought to have, in 
light of such checks that her ability to repay this loan would be based on contributions from 
her partner that were difficult to argue as consistent, Im still not persuaded that it would 
have lent to her as it would have discovered that she was at risk of being in a position from 
which she couldnt make the repayments sustainably.
Amigo did argue in response to our adjudicators assessment that, if Miss S actively chose to 
misrepresent her finances, then it doesnt seem reasonable or appropriate to reward her. 
And, as I said in my Provisional Decision, this is something Ive thought about carefully. 
Lenders like Amigo are entitled to expect prospective borrowers to answer questions about 
their financial circumstances in good faith. But as Ive said, the regulatory expectations at the 
time imposed on Amigo a responsibility to verify the income and expenditure declared by 
Miss S should the circumstances warrant it. And CONC, as I read it, anticipated that 
applicants may not always provide entirely accurate information. After all, thats why the 
rules and guidance at the relevant time asked lenders to ensure that they had clear and 
effective processes and procedures in place to assess affordability (CONC 5.3.2R)  which 
included taking adequate steps to ensure that the information provided by an applicant was 
complete and correct (CONC 5.3.3G).
So, while I still acknowledge that there is clearly some variance between Miss Ss declared 
outgoings in September 2016 and what her bank statements now appear to suggest was the 
case, I remain of the view that focusing on this when determining the merits of Amigos 
decision risks overlooking its responsibility to properly scrutinise the information she had 
provided.
Reasonable and Proportionate Checks: Loan Two
As this loan was used to repay and add to Loan One, which Ive already concluded was 
granted irresponsibly for the reasons Ive set out above, I still think its logical to argue that 
Miss S complaint about this loan can and should be upheld without even having to recreate 
reasonable and proportionate checks. 
After all, if matters had played out as the evidence suggests they should have done in 
September 2016, Miss S wouldnt have been able to repay and add to Loan One in 
December that year by taking this loan because Loan One wouldnt have been granted to 
her in the first place. 
But, for completeness, there still isnt any persuasive evidence to suggest that there had 
been the sort of significant and sustained improvement in Miss Ss financial circumstances 
that might reasonably lead to the conclusion that Loan Two  which only increased her 
indebtedness after Loan One  was likely to have been deemed sustainable and affordable 
after more thorough checks.
Was there a point when Amigo ought reasonably to have realised that it was increasing Miss Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  such that it 
shouldnt have lent her any more money?
At the point of applying for Loan One, Miss S had relatively little by way of existing debt. 
And, except for the loan she took in September 2016, that more or less remained the case in 
December that year when she took Loan Two. 
There is an argument for saying that the proximity of Loan Two to Loan One should have led 
Amigo to question whether it was doing more harm than good by lending more money to 
Miss S after only a few months of having first done so.
But because of the findings Ive already made in this decision, I still dont think its necessary 
to explore the answer to this question in more detail than I already have.
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss S has expressed some concern about the nature of Amigos emails to her guarantor 
when she fell into arrears. But, as I said in my Provisional Decision, those are a matter for 
her guarantor and Amigo. So, they arent something I have considered as part of this 
complaint. 
And while Miss S remains understandably worried about her financial circumstances, 
including her arrears on the lending in question, the crux of her complaint remains Amigos 
decision to lend her money in September and December 2016.
As a result, I havent seen anything to suggest that Amigo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss S in some other way.
Did Miss S lose out as a result of Amigos mistakes?
Miss S has had the benefit of the money that Amigo lent to her. So, this isnt a 
straightforward question to answer. 
But, as Ive said before, Amigos decisions to lend to Miss S in September and December 
2016 had the effect of increasing her indebtedness at a time when it looks like she was 
already struggling financially. And as she has since described the challenge shes had 
making the repayments, I still think the loans have proved to be unsustainable and harmful 
as a result.
And for those reasons, I still think that Miss S lost out as a result of Amigos mistakes.
Conclusion
In light of everything Ive said, and in summary, I think that Amigo:
didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss S to satisfy itself that she 
was able to sustainably repay Loans One and Two;
would have probably found that Miss S couldnt make the repayments sustainably given 
her circumstances had it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on both 
occasions;
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way; butdid cause Miss S detriment by lending to her irresponsibly.
Fair Compensation: Putting Things Right for Miss S 
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Miss S in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loans in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Miss S 
was given the loans and she used the money even though a significant proportion of Loan 
Two was used to repay Loan One. And, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already 
been done. So, it isnt possible to put Miss S back in the position she would be in if she 
hadnt been given Loans One or Two in the first place.
Instead, I have to consider if theres another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably 
given the circumstances of this complaint. And having done that, heres what I think Amigo 
should do: 
1. Amigo should refund all the interest and charges Miss S has paid to date.
2. As Loan Two is still in place, Amigo should reduce the outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Amigo should ensure that 
it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges.
But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to 
Miss S and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus.
4. Amigo should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file as a 
result of the interest and charges on Loans One and Two. 
However, to be clear, Miss S still needs to repay the proceeds of the loans she received. But 
Amigo should ensure that any ongoing repayments are set at a level that is affordable for her 
given her current financial circumstances.
My Final Decision
For the reasons Ive set above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint about Amigo Loans Ltd. 
And as a result, I direct Amigo Loans Ltd to compensate Miss S in keeping with the steps 
Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman