DRN-3846075
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
including that Halifax made the decision to no longer offer their services to him.
What happened
Mr M, who has mental health conditions which can affect his behaviour, was unhappy with 
the service he received from Halifax surrounding the cancelation of an appointment. The 
manner which Mr M spoke with Halifaxs branch staff about this wasnt acceptable to Halifax, 
who informed Mr M they were no longer willing to offer services to him and that they would 
be closing his accounts. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax acknowledged that theyd scheduled an appointment at a time when the branch was 
due to close, which was why the appointment had been cancelled, and they apologised to 
Mr M for this and made a payment of £100 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset 
he'd experienced and a further £24 to cover any telephone costs Mr M may have incurred 
when setting up the appointment. However, Halifax reiterated that they were no longer 
willing to offer services to Mr M and that his accounts would be closed as advised. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that since Mr M had raised his 
complaint hed issued an apology to Halifaxs staff member for his behaviour and that Halifax 
had subsequently agreed to not close his accounts on the understanding that any similar 
incidents moving forwards would result in the withdrawal of services by Halifax and the 
closure of Mr Ms accounts.
Mr M later contacted Halifax to open some new accounts, and he wasnt happy with the 
service he received from Halifaxs agent during the call. This led to Mr M becoming 
frustrated and speaking to Halifaxs agent in a manner which was unacceptable to Halifax, 
and to Mr M raising a further complaint. Halifax acknowledged that Mr M hadnt received the 
standard of service he should be reasonably entitled to expect from them, and they 
apologised to him for this and made a payment of £300 to him as compensation for the 
frustration and inconvenience hed incurred. But Halifax also returned to their previous 
position that they were no longer willing to offer services to Mr M, and so notified him that his 
accounts would be closed. Mr M later transferred his banking to another provider.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr M had received poor service from Halifax on two 
occasions, and that Mr Ms mental health vulnerabilities had been aggravated by this poor 
service which had resulted in Mr M speaking to Halifaxs staff in an unacceptable manner. 
But our investigator ultimately felt that, despite the mitigating factor of Mr Ms mental health, 
Halifax were entitled to choose to end its business relationship with Mr M and to close his 
accounts. And our investigator also felt that the compensation payments totalling £400 
already represented fair compensation for the poor service from Halifax that Mr M had 
received. Mr M didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, 
and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the written apology issued by Mr M to Halifax after the first of the two incidents 
described in the preceding section. And having read Mr Ms explanation of his personal 
circumstances and how his mental health issues can manifest behaviourally when under 
stress, its only natural to sympathise with Mr M and to acknowledge that frustrating events, 
such as the ones that he experienced as a result of Halifaxs poor service do have a 
disproportionately significant effect on him.
However, ultimately, in much the same way as a person is free to choose which bank they 
do business with, a bank is also free to choose whether it will offer, or continue to offer, its 
services to a specific person. And its for this reason that the terms of banks will generally 
include the provision that it can close a customers accounts and stop providing services to 
that customer, so long as gives that customer fair notice of its intention to do so.
Of course, just because an action is permitted by terms and conditions, it doesnt necessarily 
follow that the application of the action described by those terms is fair, and there can be 
circumstances where this service will consider an action permitted by terms and conditions 
to have been applied unfairly, and where this service will then instruct against that action.
But while I am sympathetic to Mr Ms personal situation, my role here is to consider the full 
circumstances of this complaint impartially. And having done so, Im satisfied that Mr M did 
speak with Halifaxs agents in a manner that was unacceptable to Halifax on two occasions, 
and that it was therefore fair for Halifax to have made the decision to no longer offer services 
to Mr M because of this. 
Additionally, having reviewed all the information provided to this service by Halifax, including 
Mr Ms complaint file, Im satisfied that Halifax did fairly take Mr Ms personal circumstances 
into account when making their decision, and I feel that this was demonstrated by Halifax 
accepting Mr Ms written apology and rescinding their initial notice of account closure on 
condition that no further behavioural instances occurred.
Regarding the two instances of poor service that Mr M received from Halifax, Im aware that 
Mr M doesnt feel that the compensation payments totalling £400 provides fair compensation 
to him for that poor service. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered fair by one person 
often not being considered as such by someone else. But given the full circumstances of 
what happened here, the compensation payments of £100 and £300 that Halifax have 
already made to Mr M do feel fair to me, and I can confirm that theyre commensurate with 
what I might have instructed Halifax to pay, had they not already done so. 
In arriving at this position Ive considered the two payments separately, in consideration of all 
the circumstances here, and also in consideration of the framework within which this service 
awards compensation, further information of which can be found on this services website. 
Having done so, I feel that the £100 plus further costs that Halifax awarded Mr M for the 
incorrect scheduling of his appointment is a fair amount. And while I do note that Mr M is 
particularly affected by instances of poor service, as previously described, I feel that this fact 
is taken into consideration by Halifaxs in regard to the second award of compensation, 
which was made at the higher amount of £300. As a counter point, Ive also considered that if Halifax hadnt rescinded their first notice of 
account closure, at Mr Ms request, they wouldnt have been in a position to have provided 
the later poor service to Mr M that they did, and for which they paid compensation to Mr M at 
a notably higher rate than for the first instance. And after taking all of these points into 
consideration, I feel that the compensation already paid to Mr M by Halifax is a fair amount. 
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, and I continue to sympathise 
with the difficult personal situation he finds himself in. But I dont feel that Halifax have acted 
unfairly towards him by making the decision to close his accounts, and I do feel that Halifax 
have already fairly compensated him for the poor service he received from them. 
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Halifax to take any further action. I hope that Mr M will understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman