DRN-1159481
 
The complaint
Miss M and Mr T complain about the survey of their property carried out for Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax). They say the surveyor didnt report on work at the adjoining property 
which damaged their property. They ask for compensation for their costs in rectifying 
problems, or for the lost value in the property.
What happened
Miss M and Mr T took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2016. They applied for the mortgage 
through a broker. They selected a level one (or basic) survey which was carried out in June 
2016. Halifax appointed Colleys, which was also part of the Bank of Scotland group, to do 
the survey.
Miss M and Mr T say that at the time the survey was carried out renovations were being 
made to an adjoining property. They say these renovations have affected the value of their 
property. Theyve had to obtain a damage survey and face legal costs related to party wall 
issues. Miss M and Mr T say the surveyor should have told them about these problems.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said a level one (or 
basic) survey is carried out on behalf of the lender to confirm that a property is suitable 
security for the mortgage. The survey met the requirements for a basic survey. No 
investigation would have been carried out on adjoining properties. And the valuation report 
suggests some issues existed at the time. 
Miss M and Mr T didnt agree. Mr T said Halifax had given conflicting information about what 
should have been included in the valuation report. Mr T said the report should have told him 
about any major legal issue affecting the value of the property. Mr T says neither the 
surveyor nor Halifax has taken responsibility for the report, which he says is in breach of his 
consumer rights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Miss M and Mr T Halifax had to establish that the property was suitable 
security for the loan. A survey or valuation of the property is part of this process. 
Halifax requires the applicants to pay for the valuation as part of the application process. The 
applicant can chose what type of survey is carried out. Miss M and Mr T chose a level one 
survey. 
Mr T says it was obvious that work was being done to the adjoining property. He provided a 
picture from a website advertising the property for sale which shows the next door property 
with scaffolding. The valuation report includes guidance notes which say its a valuation report, which 
involves a limited inspection and only highlights items which materially affect value. It says 
more detailed surveys can be done. The report said the condition of the property was good. 
It noted items that could affect the value, including whether the property met current 
regulations due to some internal works. It suggested specialist advice on this. Theres no 
mention of the work on the next door property, or that this could be a problem. 
After buying the property, Miss M and Mr T discovered a problem. They found a flue was 
restricted when they tried to have a wood burning stove fitted. They obtained a damage 
report in mid 2017. The report says the chimneys are damaged at loft/roof level by work 
carried out at the adjoining property. The report says the work was carried out without 
planning consents or compliance with laws on party walls. Im not making any findings about 
this here  Im just summarising what the report says. 
I sympathise with the position Miss M and Mr T are in: there are problems with their house 
that will need to be fixed. And while it might be the responsibility of their neighbours to pay 
for this, they are faced with the prospect of having to take legal action against their 
neighbours to enforce this. But before I can order Bank of Scotland to do as they want  to 
pay them compensation  I have to be satisfied that it did something wrong and that this 
caused their loss. 
Lenders should appoint a suitably qualified person to do a valuation or survey. Halifax 
appointed a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, so it met this 
requirement. The survey was for the benefit of Halifax, to confirm whether the property was 
suitable security. I think Halifax was entitled to rely on the survey and I dont think it had any 
reason to think it wasnt reasonable to do so.
Because the valuation was carried out by Colleys, which was also part of the Bank of 
Scotland group, I can consider more here than merely Halifaxs actions as lender. But I can 
only go so far. Its not my role to replace the surveyors professional opinion with my own; 
that wouldnt be appropriate. Instead I need to consider if the report is obviously flawed, and 
having done so Im not persuaded that it obviously is. 
Miss M and Mr T say the surveyor should have told them work was being done to the 
adjoining property. Mr T pointed out this was obvious, even from the online sales photos. I 
think its likely Miss M and Mr T knew about the work. So I cant see that matters would have 
been different if the surveyor had told them that work was being done.
The surveyor wouldn't have known if consents weren't in place, or that the work would result 
in a legal dispute. If the valuation report had mentioned the work, this might have prompted 
the solicitor to ask about planning consents and party wall notifications. Equally though, Miss 
M and Mr T could have raised this with their solicitor. And questions about party wall notices 
and development/alterations to nearby properties are usually included in the enquiries made 
of the seller during the sales process. So I don't think this would have changed matters here.
It seems to me that the problem here isnt that there was work being done to the adjoining 
property. The problem is that the work was done in a way that caused damage to Miss M 
and Mr Ts property. 
I dont think Colleys surveyor would have known about the damage to the flues. It seems 
from the damage report provided by Miss M and Mr T that this wasnt apparent from their 
property. The structural engineers used inspection holes and a CCTV survey of the interior 
of the chimneys for the damage report. The valuation report makes it clear the inspection is 
limited, so concealed damage like this wouldnt have been seen.In any event, the valuation was carried out for the benefit of Halifax as a lender to decide 
whether it was willing to lend the money Miss M and Mr T required. It involved a limited 
inspection and only highlights items which materially affect value. It wasnt for Miss M and Mr 
Ts benefit or protection. If they wanted to know more about the property  and the risk of 
damage from the work to the adjoining property  theyd have needed to commission their 
own survey which would have gone into more detail. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman