DRN-4160870
The complaint
Mr T complains that his bank, Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has refused to refund the money he has 
lost following him falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr T was interested in investing in cryptocurrency and researched a business 
named Hubblebit (X) online. After speaking to X Mr T made an initial investment. Mr T was in 
constant communication with X and was persuaded to make further investments with it to 
achieve larger profits.
For X to help guide Mr T through the process of investing it had him download the screen 
sharing application AnyDesk.
When Mr T attempted to make a withdrawal from the investment, he was told that he would 
need to open an account with a business called Coinjar and make a deposit into the Coinjar 
account equal to the amount he was attempting to withdraw. Thinking he was the only 
person with access to his Coinjar account Mr T agreed to make the deposit, but the 
scammer also had access to his account and was able to transfer these funds to his account 
with X without his knowledge.
Mr T made the following payments in relation to the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
28 April 2022 Wisenex Crypto-exchange £2,507.56 Debit Card 
10 May 2022 Coinjar UK Limited £5.00 Debit Card
11 May 2022 Wisenex Crypto-exchange £2,496.45 Debit Card
11 May 2022 Coinjar UK Limited £10,00 Refund
11 May 2022 Coinjar UK Limited £90.00 Refund
31 May 2022 Coinjar UK Limited £133.46 Refund
12 July 2022 Coinjar UK Limited £5,000 Debit Card
After not being able to make a withdrawal Mr T realised he had fallen victim to a scam, and 
despite attempts to contact X he has been unable to recover any further funds.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr T 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr T has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr T and Revolut sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Revolut should refund the funds Mr T lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr T made
Mr T made payments into the scam via his debit card. Although Mr T didnt make these 
payments to X directly, instead he made the payments to the cryptocurrency exchanges 
Wisenex and Coinjar. 
When payments are made by card the only recovery option Revolut has is to request a 
chargeback. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr T was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr T didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges 
Wisenex and Coinjar. This is important because Revolut was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchants he paid (Wisenex and Coinjar), not another party 
(such as X).
The service provided by Wisenex and Coinjar would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Mr Ts payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Wisenex and Coinjar 
provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr T paid. As Wisenex and 
Coinjar provided the requested service to Mr T any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Mr T made?
It has been accepted that Mr T authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Revolut, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr T is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments from being made.
The payments Mr T made into the scam were all for a relatively low amounts to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. While the final payment Mr T made of £5,000 was higher than 
the other payments he had made, he had made a previous legitimate payment from his 
account of a similar value so I dont think the larger payment would have appeared unusual, 
and I dont think any of the payments would have caused Revolut to have concerns. 
With the above in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable that Revoluts fraud prevention 
systems were not triggered by any of the payments, and that Revolut didnt step in to 
prevent the scam taking place. Revolut is therefore not responsible for Mr Ts loss.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman