DRN-4418615
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt refunded him after he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr A received a text message which said that there had been an attempted transaction on 
his account. It said to call the number given in the text message if the transaction wasnt 
recognised. Mr A knew he hadnt attempted the transaction and so called the number. He 
didnt realise at the time, but the message had been sent by fraudsters. And the call he 
made connected him to them.
The fraudsters claimed to be from Halifax and told Mr A his account was under threat. 
Fearful for the loss of his money, Mr A followed the fraudsters instructions and transferred 
£580.85 to an account in someone elses name and held at a different bank.
Mr A contacted Halifax once he realised hed been scammed and asked that it refund his 
loss. 
Halifax tried to recover Mr As money from the bank he sent it to. But the fraudster had 
already moved the money on, and so nothing could be returned. Halifax went on to consider 
whether it should refund Mr A. In doing so, it considered the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code, to which it is a signatory. But it said it wouldnt give a refund.
Halifax said it had done all it could to protect Mr A by giving him a written warning when he 
set up the scam payment. But it could see Mr A had selected family and friends as the 
payment purpose  rather than move my money  meaning the warning wasnt tailored to 
the type of scam Mr A fell victim to. 
Halifax also said that Mr A hadnt held a reasonable basis for believing what he was told by 
the scammers. It noted that Mr A hadnt done anything to verify the message hed received 
about the declined payment, despite it coming from an unverified mobile number. And he 
also hadnt checked the number he was told to call. From discussions with Mr A, it was also 
revealed that the scammers hadnt known any personal or account information about him. 
Mr A told Halifax he did have doubts at the time but proceeded to make the payment 
anyway.
Mr A was unhappy with Halifaxs response and so brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered what had happened and found Halifax had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. He could see that Halifax had attempted to recover Mr As 
money in the way hed expect. And he felt Halifax had fairly relied on exceptions to 
reimbursement set out in the CRM Code.
The complaint has been referred to me as Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr A has been cruelly targeted by scammers and that hes an innocent victim here. I 
do sympathise with him. It must be difficult to accept that his money has been lost. But Im 
not upholding his complaint and so wont be directing Halifax to refund him. Ill explain why.
Halifax is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. Broadly speaking, the Code is in place to see the victims of scams refunded. 
There are standards that signatory firms must adhere to. And there are also exceptions to 
reimbursement that a firm can rely on if it can be shown one or more fairly apply.
Halifax believes it met its own requirements  the standards for firms  and that an exception 
to reimbursement applies in Mr As case. Halifax says Mr A didnt hold a reasonable basis 
for believing the text message he received and call with the fraudsters were legitimate.
Did Halifax do enough to protect Mr A?
A firm ought fairly and reasonably, as per the CRM Code, present a customer with an 
effective warning (as defined by the Code) when it identifies a scam risk. In Mr As case it did 
present a warning. But Im not going on to consider whether it meets the Codes definition of 
an effective warning. Thats because Ive found its intervention was enough here, given the 
payment made by Mr A didnt present as particularly risky. 
It wasnt of particularly high value and was a lot less than Mr A had sent in the past. There 
was very little to mark the transaction out as unusual. So, even if Halifax hadnt presented a 
warning at all, I wouldnt make the finding that it hadnt met the requirements of the Code. 
Ive also noted that Halifax did present Mr A with a warning when he set up the new 
payment. But as he selected a payment purpose that differed from what he thought he was 
doing the information in the warning didnt really reflect the situation. And so Halifax was 
limited in how much relevant information could be given to try and protect Mr A. 
Has Halifax fairly applied the reasonable basis for belief exception to reimbursement?
I dont doubt that Mr A has acted honestly. And Im sure, at the time, he believed he needed 
to act to protect his money. But I find Halifax has acted fairly in declining to refund him. 
The text message Mr A received doesnt seem to have been disguised in any way. It came 
through from an unknown mobile number and only claimed to be from his bank. Mr A didnt 
check the sending number. Nor did he check the number he was told to call. Had he sought 
to verify either its likely the scam would have been revealed, and I believe its fair and 
reasonable to expect such checks in a scenario like this. 
Its my understanding that the person Mr A spoke to didnt know anything about him or his 
account. And so there doesnt seem to have been the use of any detail that might have 
made the call more convincing. 
Mr A was told to move his money to an account held at a different bank, and in someone 
elses name. But he doesnt seem to have questioned this, where I believe it presents as a 
worrying element of the scam. 
Mr A has said he did have doubts at the time he was making the payment. But the action he 
took was to ask the scammer whether he was definitely from Halifax. It cant fairly and 
reasonably be said that any positive response from the scammer could provide assurance.
Mr A has said that he checked his account online before making the payment. And hes said 
he could see two declined transactions, which is what made him think his account was under 
attack.
Ive looked at the electronic records for Mr As account from the day he made the scam 
payment. I cant see any declined payments before the one he made to the scammer. There 
was a payment that Mr A attempted  but which was declined  after he made the scam 
payment. But theres nothing beforehand. I cant be sure what Mr A saw, but theres no 
evidence of the declined payments hes described that might have made the situation he found himself in seem more genuine. Even if there were evidence of the declined payments 
Mr A has described, I dont believe it would change the outcome. There are too many other 
factors at play that I believe ought fairly and reasonably to have given Mr A significant cause 
for concern. 
My finding is then that Halifax has fairly relied on the reasonable basis for belief exception 
to reimbursement. 
The attempted recovery of Mr As funds
I can see Halifax contacted the bank that Mr A sent his money to in an attempt to recover it. 
Halifax did so quickly, right after the scam had been reported. Theres nothing more Halifax 
could do here, and it had no control over what might or might not be returned. 
Mr As money had already been removed from the receiving account and so the receiving 
bank was unable to return anything.         
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman