DRN-4419663
The complaint
Mr F complains Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked his account and withheld 
the money in it causing him to suffer financial loss, distress, and inconvenience.
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this Mr F couldnt access his funds. Mr F 
complained to Epayments.
Epayments upheld his complaint, explained what was going on, and said it was safeguarding 
his money until anything further develops. Mr F referred his complaint to this service.
The original restrictions were later lifted on 23 February 2022 and Epayments began the 
process of reviewing its customers accounts and refunding them. Epayments explained it 
was now taking steps to enable Mr F to access his funds. But this would be subject to Mr F 
passing the checks, and he will be emailed about the next steps in due course.
Mr F was able to access his funds in February 2022. Mr F said he should however be 
compensated for the being without the money as he lost out of on opportunities and buying a 
home. Mr F also says he and his family were on holiday overseas at the time and had to find 
the money to get home at the onset of the pandemic. Mr F says this was a very anxious time 
and his flights home had more than doubled.
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Fs complaint. In summary they found:
- The reason Epayments accounts were restricted was due to weaknesses in 
Epayments financial crime controls, which were identified by the FCA. So 
Epayments is responsible for the impact to Mr F for not having access to his funds
- Epayments should pay Mr F 8% simple interest per annum on the funds from when 
they were blocked until settlement. This is in line with industry standards for 
compensation and covers multiple uses of the money
- Pay Mr F £150 for the distress and inconvenience the blocks had on him
- If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions were charged by 
Epayments or their banking partner during the refund process, these should also be 
refunded
Mr F agreed with what our Investigator said. But Epayments made an offer of £500 to Mr F 
to resolve his complaint. Mr F did not agree. Epayments then offered to pay Mr F 1% of his 
balance as compensation. Mr F did not agree to this either.
Mr F said Epayments should pay him more compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused him and his family, given they were caught overseas without access to their 
account.
Mr F says the Epayments account is where he kept most of his money, and without access 
to it he had to ask friends and family and borrow money to get back home. He says his 
ability to get back home quickly was affected by not having access to his funds, so it took a 
few weeks longer to sort out and cost him considerably more.
Epayments did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points it made 
were:
- Mr F couldnt access his funds because of the FCA's limitation on withdrawals from 
Epayments account balances
- The terms of the account Mr F signed up to allow Epayments to suspend (or 
terminate) the operation of accounts where it believes it is required do so because of 
law or regulation. These provisions also allow the re-opening of the account to be in 
the sole discretion of Epayments. Because of this, Mr F has no entitlement for 
payment related to delays
- As EMIs (Electronic Money Institution) do not pay interest on its accounts, Mr F 
would have had no reasonable expectation or right to any. Mr F should provide 
evidence of what he would have done with the money to show awarding interest in 
this way is fair
- By awarding 8% simple interest, Epayments ability to solvently wind-down will be 
adversely impacted
As Epayments didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this complaint was passed to me 
to decide. I then sent both parties my provisional decision and gave them a further 
opportunity to provide me with any further submissions. 
Here is what I said I was planning to decide: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This significantly impacted Mr F, given he had no 
access to his funds from February 2020 up until they were released in February 2022.
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Mr Fs funds during this period. Epayments say it shouldnt 
be held fully liable for any detriment to Mr F whilst the FCAs limitations were imposed.
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. So I think Epayments should put 
things right by addressing the fact Mr F had been deprived of his funds through no fault of 
his own.
I note Epayments dont agree with 8% simple interest being added because there isnt any 
way of knowing how Mr F would have used his funds should he have had access to them. I 
also note Epayments wants to see evidence of how he would have utilised these funds.Mr F has said that he has lost out on opportunities to make financial gain and buy a new 
house. But even if that wasnt the case here, awarding 8% simple interest when a consumer 
has wrongly been deprived of their funds is in line with the approach at this service. Nor 
have I seen compelling enough reasons as to why Mr F shouldnt be awarded compensation 
in this way, so Im satisfied this is fair redress.
Our Investigator recommended Epayments pay Mr F £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience Epayments caused him to suffer. I carefully considered what Mr F had said 
about the impact this matter had on him. And I asked him to provide evidence of his trip 
abroad and financial losses.
Mr F has sent me information which includes paperwork related to his hotel stay, flight 
schedules and statements from another bank account from the country he lives in. Having 
looked at this Im satisfied he had travelled abroad just before Epayments blocked his 
account.
Im also satisfied the block coincided with the beginning of the pandemic. As a result, Im 
persuaded this would have caused significant disruption, uncertainty and panic to Mr F and 
his family.
When weighing up what I think is fair redress for any distress and inconvenience caused, I 
must consider the impact of a business doing something wrong had on the complainant.
Mr F would have been overseas and suffered any increment to his travel costs regardless of 
Epayments blocking his account. So I dont think its Epayments fault he suffered any 
financial loss here.
Mr F argues that without access to his account, his ability to buy flight tickets was severely 
hampered - and so this process was unduly protracted and meant costs got higher and 
higher. But I think it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to determine what this cost 
would be. More importantly Im persuaded this is too far removed in terms of foreseeable 
causation to award Mr F financial loss compensation.
Mr F has also said he lost out on buying a home. Equally I think this is also too far removed 
in terms of foreseeable cause to award Mr F financial loss compensation.
But I do think having his account blocked in this way exacerbated the distress and 
inconvenience Mr F was already suffering from. In other words, the account block made 
Mr Fs situation worse - causing additional trouble and upset. Having given this some 
thought, Im satisfied £300 is fair compensation for the impact Epayments actions had.
If Epayments, or its partners, have charged Mr F any conversion or commission fees when 
releasing the funds, these should be refunded as I dont think its fair or reasonable for them 
to be applied.
Lastly, Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not 
my intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of 
our service. My role here is ultimately to decide a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint.
Putting things right 
To put things right, Epayments must:
-Pay 8% simple interest on the funds it released to Mr F from when it first restricted his access up until settlement*
-Not apply any fees or charges for releasing funds to Mr F  as detailed above. If it or 
its banking partner has applied such charges, they should be refunded
-Pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused
The deadline for responses from both parties has now passed. Epayments has not 
responded, and Mr F has thanked this service for its work. 
I will now decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided for the reasons above and in my provisional decision to uphold 
this complaint. As neither party has raised any new arguments, I do not need to make any 
further findings. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Epayments must:
- Pay 8% simple interest on the funds it released to Mr F from when it first restricted 
his access up until settlement*
- Not apply any fees or charges for releasing funds to Mr F  as detailed above. If it or 
its banking partner has applied such charges, they should be refunded
- Pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused
*If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must 
now put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman