DRN-2566061
The complaint
Mr A complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly logged a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A says he contacted Fairmead to check the cover available under his policy after 
discovering a leak in his roof. He was told no cover was available but says Fairmead 
incorrectly logged this as a claim resulting in higher policy premiums at renewal. He wants 
Fairmead to reimburse the costs associated with this, restore his no claims discount and to 
pay him compensation for stress and upset.
Fairmead is satisfied Mr A made a claim under the policy and so hasnt agreed to do 
anything further. Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the complaint as 
she thought Fairmead had acted fairly in this case. Mr A disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call between Fairmead and Mr A. Its clear from the outset he was 
speaking with someone in the claims department and he confirmed he wanted to 
make a new claim. He was informed a claim had been logged and why itd been 
declined  which he seemed to accept at the time.
From what Ive heard, Mr A didnt contact Fairmead to simply notify it of the damage. 
Instead it seems he contacted it in the hope that it would cover the damage under his 
policy. In order to check this, Fairmead explained it would have to ask him 
underwriting questions and check the circumstances in line with the cover available 
under his policy, to which Mr A agreed.
With all of this in mind Im satisfied Mr A did make a claim under his policy and that 
Fairmead made it clear to him hed done so during the call he had with it.
Fairmead has a responsibility to accurately record any claims that have been made 
on a policy, which it seems to have done in this case. I understand Mr A says this is 
affecting his premiums, but I cant hold Fairmead responsible for this as the 
information its recorded seems to be correct for the reasons Ive explained.
Im satisfied Fairmead has acted fairly in this case so I wont be directing it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman