DRN-3721108
The complaint
Ms B complains that Novitas Loans Ltd acted unfairly in approving a fixed sum loan 
agreement. 
What happened
In December 2016, Ms B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Novitas for £200,000 
to cover legal costs in relation to her divorce proceedings. The loan was arranged by Ms Bs 
solicitor. As part of the loan facility Novitas required Ms B to also pay for an insurance policy 
which cost £22,000 and was added to the loan agreement. The insurance policy was taken 
out for the benefit of Novitas and would pay off the loan in the event Ms B failed to do so. 
The interest rate on the loan was 18%. 
In 2021, Ms B complained to Novitas to say it shouldnt have provided her with the loan. She 
says that her solicitors pressured her into taking out the loan against her wishes. She says 
that the solicitors should have advised her to use her joint assets from her marriage to pay 
for the proceedings instead. She says that she had no income of her own so the loan wasnt 
affordable to her and Novitas ought to have realised this if they had completed adequate 
affordability checks. She also said that at no time was she given a copy of the loan 
agreement. Ms B asked for Novitas to refund all the interest that had applied to the 
agreement as she couldnt afford the loan. 
Novitas didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint and said that she had signed for the loan agreement. 
It didnt think it had acted unfairly in providing her with the facility. 
After Ms B referred her complaint to our service, Novitas said that it had reviewed its 
response to her complaint and agreed to remove all interest and charges it had applied to 
the loan agreement, as well as removing her liability to pay for the insurance policy. It said 
that Ms B would therefore only have to repay the capital amount of £200,000. 
Ms B didnt accept that offer, she said that Novitas had still acted unfairly in giving her the 
loan agreement. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Novitas offer to 
remove all interest, charges and the insurance costs from the loan agreement was fair. She 
thought that as the capital amount she borrowed was used to cover her legal fees it was fair 
that she pays that back to Novitas. She hadnt seen anything to persuade her that Ms B had 
been pressured into taking out the loans or any other reason as to why it would be 
reasonable to say Ms B didnt have to pay back what she borrowed. 
Ms B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Ive summarised the complaint very briefly and that Ms B has provided a substantial 
amount of information and evidence concerning her divorce proceedings. I want to assure 
her Ive considered everything shes provided, but Ive focussed in this decision on what 
I consider to be the key issues regarding her complaint against Novitas. Much of what Ms B 
is unhappy about relates to her concerns with the actions of her solicitors and I note shes 
raised a separate complaint about them already through a different service. 
The crux of Ms Bs complaint against Novitas is that she feels the loan should never have 
been approved, albeit for a number of different reasons. Having considered the 
circumstances here, I think what Novitas has already agreed to do is a fair way to put things 
right for Ms B. I dont therefore think it needs to do more and Ill explain why. 
Ms B says that if appropriate affordability checks had been completed then Novitas would 
have seen that Ms B had no means with which to pay back the loan. I dont necessarily 
doubt what Ms B says here, but it does make me question why on the one hand she has 
also sought to argue that she could have funded the legal fees outright using cash and 
assets she already had (she says if her solicitors had advised her differently). If that were the 
case, then the loan would have been affordable to her. 
In any event, regardless of which is the case, Novitas has agreed to remove all interest and 
charges from the loan as well as the associated costs of the insurance policy it added. So, it 
has done what I would expect it to do if I were to make a finding that the loan was 
unaffordable for Ms B and that it shouldnt have been granted on that basis. For this reason, 
I havent seen it necessary to make a finding as to whether Novitas lent irresponsibly on the 
grounds of affordability. I note this remedy is also what Ms B had asked Novitas to do initially 
to put things right. 
Ms B has had the benefit of the money she borrowed under the loan agreement in that it was 
used to cover her solicitors legal fees and costs. On that basis it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to say that Novitas should write off some or all of the capital balance. If it 
did, Ms B would arguably be in a better position than she would ever have been in 
otherwise. She says that had she not entered into this loan she would have used her joint 
assets to pay the legal fees. So, it follows the fees and costs she has paid to her solicitors 
would always have been the same whether she took the loan or not. If she feels her 
solicitors have charged her more than she should have had to pay, then this is a complaint 
shell need to direct to her solicitors. 
Ms B says that she hasnt been given a copy of the loan agreement nor was one provided to 
her prior to the loan being executed. Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement that Ms B has 
signed, so it seems to me that she was presented with the loan agreement before entering 
into it. While she says her solicitors pressured her into entering into this loan, Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me thats most likely to have been the case. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say Novitas shouldnt have entered into the agreement with Ms B. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman