DRN-3747552
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc did not pay her the compensation due for 
the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss S complained to Bank of Scotland about the sale of her PPI. Bank of Scotland agreed 
that the policy had been mis-sold. They offered Miss S about £1,800 compensation before 
tax, or about £1,600 compensation after mandatory tax had been taken off.
In June 2020, Bank of Scotland issued a cheque for about £1,600.
The following year, Miss S was pursued by her claims management company for their share 
of the compensation. But she said this was the first shed heard about it  shed not received 
Bank of Scotlands offer or cheque. She provided bank statements to show this.
Bank of Scotland insisted the cheque had been paid to Miss S, though they did not provide 
the evidence we asked them for in order to show this.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Bank of Scotland 
didnt reply, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Bank of Scotland have provided some evidence indicating that the cheque may have 
been paid to Miss Ss account, they have not provided the evidence we asked for  such as 
the acceptance form or electronic records. And they were given multiple lengthy chances to 
evidence their side of the case.
On the other hand, Miss S has provided her bank statements from the time, for the account 
which Bank of Scotland say the cheque was paid to. There is no corresponding cheque 
deposit from Bank of Scotland, nor any credit for that amount. Miss S also reported the 
matter to the police, in case someone had intercepted her cheque. Her testimony has been 
consistent and credible, and I can see that her claims management company also now 
accept that the cheque did not reach Miss S. So Miss Ss actions and evidence support that 
she did not get the cheque in question. 
Bank of Scotland say their cheque might have been grouped together with other payments 
to form a much larger credit to Miss Ss account, for about £5,000 in July 2020. But we 
spoke to Miss Ss bank about this. And Miss Ss bank said that that credit just shows as one 
transaction. They were unable to find this cheque from Bank of Scotland, and they had no 
other evidence to say that the cheque in question was ever deposited to Miss S.
So taking everything together, it seems likely that Miss S did not receive her compensation 
from Bank of Scotland. Certainly, I have not been given enough to satisfy me that she did.
It follows that Bank of Scotland should pay Miss S the compensation now  by direct bank 
transfer to be safe. They should also update the simple interest to the new payment date, to 
compensate Miss S for the extra time she was out of pocket.
I also understand that Miss S was caused some real anxiety and distress about this, and that 
shes had to spend a good deal of time trying to get this resolved. So Bank of Scotland need 
to put that right, too.
Putting things right
I direct Bank of Scotland plc to:
Update the 8% simple interest portion of the compensation to the date that they will 
now pay Miss S the redress;
Pay Miss S the PPI redress directly by bank transfer; and-
Pay Miss S an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, also 
by direct bank transfer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint, and direct Bank of Scotland plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman