DRN-2699921
The complaint
Mr G complains that TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly provided a loan to him which 
was unaffordable.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Mr G with a loan as follows:
Loan Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
1 09/10/2018 60 £5,000 £174.50
When Mr G complained to TFS it didnt uphold his complaint. In summary, it said that the 
figures Mr G had declared and the information it saw on its credit checks showed no current 
problems managing credit. So TFS didnt believe it was reasonable or proportionate to 
request further evidence of his expenditure and the information it had gathered showed the 
loan was affordable for him .
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt think that we could uphold it. 
As Mr G disagreed with our investigators view, it has come to me to consider afresh and 
make a decision. Mr G mainly said that TFS should have carried out far more detailed 
checks, including doing more than just one credit reference check with a single credit 
reference agency, and this would have exposed the full extent of his borrowing. Mr G said 
TFS should also have looked at several months bank statements where it wouldve found 
information about what he was spending his money on that would have led to his loan 
application being declined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. And having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator and Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr G.
TFS asked Mr G about his income and looked at payslip information to verify Mr Gs take 
home pay as £2,358 a month. When assessing his expenditure, TFS relied on statistical 
information about what someone in Mr Gs position typically spent each month on basic 
essentials. After also asking his about his housing costs and his spending on other credit 
commitments disclosed in the credit checks that TFS carried out and taking into account that 
the loan purpose was in part to pay other existing debts, it worked out that Mr G would have 
around £696 in disposable income left to spend after paying his TFS loan. 
So I think its fair to say that the TFS loan looked affordable for Mr G.
Ive looked carefully through the results of the credit check TFS did at the time. TFS was 
aware that Mr G had other unsecured loans and credit cards  but those accounts looked to 
be well-managed and Mr G had told TFS he planned to use most of its loan to clear a large 
credit card debt and pay four other high cost loans. So I think TFS might reasonably have 
assumed that its loan wasnt just going to be adding to his overall debt. Theres nothing 
indicating that Mr G was facing any serious financial difficulty at the time such as any sort of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court 
judgements registered and no recent defaults on his record. 
Mr G says TFS shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to him and 
hes sent us bank statements to support what he says. 
But I think its fair to say that all the information TFS had gathered tended to suggest that 
Mr G seemed to be managing his credit without any obvious signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other 
debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be 
fair reasons not to lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Gs credit checks was 
excessive having regard to his income. 
Id expect TFS to decide Mr Gs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This is why information that Mr G might see on his own 
credit check, including other short term loans, may not have been identified by a credit check 
done by TFS when he applied for this loan. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for TFS to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr G wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required TFS to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Gs finances or ask Mr G to prove what he was declaring (by 
requiring him to send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources 
(like acquiring multiple credit reports) to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) 
about his financial circumstances. 
Im sorry that Mr G had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved 
difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Gs actual circumstances possibly werent fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information TFS obtained. 
But I havent seen enough to make me think that it would be fair to hold TFS 
responsible for this. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it provided this loan. And, in this case, I dont think that TFS did anything wrong when 
it made its lending decision and it provided this loan to Mr G. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that TFS acted towards Mr G in any other way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. TFS said Mr G made 9 payments to the account, then paid 
off £3,000.00 and received a rebate of interest totalling £2,047.47. He then continued to 
make reduced payments of £75.53. So it looks like TFS has been fair in its dealings with 
Mr G and shown appropriate forbearance when he needed more time to pay. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will be disappointing for Mr G but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how I've come to my decision. I think it is reasonable for 
TFS to expect Mr G to repay the loan  although on flexible terms to reflect his financial 
situation while he has continuing money problems.  I take this opportunity to remind TFS (or any a third-party debt collection agent) that it 
should always discuss payment options constructively with Mr G and treat him fairly and 
sympathetically if Mr G continues to need further time to pay what he still owes. 
And if Mr G would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against TFS Loans 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman