DRN-2800348
The complaint
Mr L says Emergency Cash Limited trading as Wizzcash.com lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says that Wizzcash lent two loans in quick succession. This is at a time when he was in 
financial difficulty, which included borrowing and repaying significant amounts to other short-
term lenders. He thinks that Wizzcash shouldve found about all of this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans Wizzcash provided to Mr L in January and 
February 2017.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 03/01/2017 £300 3 31/01/2017
2 17/02/2017 £400 3 outstanding 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the checks Wizzcash had made were 
proportionate and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that Wizzcash sent him a large 
number of emails after loan 1 asking him to borrow again. He thinks this was wrong. He 
reiterated his complaint that his financial situation wasnt good and so Wizzcash shouldnt 
have lent. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Wizzcash should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loan 1 Mr L needed to make three monthly repayments of around £146. And for loan 2, 
Mr L needed to make three monthly repayments of £175. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr L provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr L said he had a monthly income of £1,950. Wizzcash took what Mr L declared as his 
regular expenditure, and it also looked at what it found on his credit report. Taking these 
together Mr Ls expenditure was around £1,250 for loan one and £1,550 for loan 2. So, this 
would leave him with enough spare income to make the loan repayments and it wouldve 
been reasonable for Wizzcash to think that the loans were affordable for Mr L. 
The crux of Mr Ls objection to the lending is that he feels Wizzcash should have made more 
in-depth checks. Had it done this, he says it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. But 
given the amounts borrowed compared to his declared income, and that that it was early in 
the lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Wizzcash should have looked into 
his finances in more detail. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Wizzcash was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr L mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Wizzcash to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Wizzcash did for these loans 
were proportionate. I think Wizzcashs decisions to lend was reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mr Ls complaint about it mis-selling these loans. 
I can see that Wizzcash sent Mr L some marketing emails after it sold him loan 1. And, as he 
says, he was having financial difficulties at this time and this may have caused him some 
problems. But Wizzcash is allowed to advertise its products. And so it wasnt acting 
incorrectly when it did this and it doesnt mean that the loans were mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman