DRN-1951218
 
The complaint
Mrs P says MYJAR Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs P had two instalment loans with MYJAR: a six-month instalment loan for £350 in 
April 2017 and a twelve-month instalment for £1,150 in November 2017.
An adjudicator considered Mrs Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs P 
accepted what the adjudicator had said about the first loan but not the second. As there was 
no agreement, Mrs Ps complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
As Mrs P accepted what the adjudicator said about the first loan, Im only going to look at the 
second loan in this decision. Before lending, MYJAR asked Mrs P for some information 
about her income and expenditure. Mrs P said her income was £1,200 per month. Mrs P 
also said she had no outgoings for housing costs and £250 of payments to creditors. MYJAR 
also carried out a credit check. MYJARs credit check doesnt appear to have been 
especially detailed but Ive also seen little evidence from Mrs P which would add much to the 
information provided by MYJAR.
MYJAR used the above information to calculate how much it thought Mrs P could afford to 
borrow and allowed Mrs P to borrow 100% of what it thought she could afford. 
I dont think the monthly repayments look obviously unaffordable. Ive not seen that MYJAR 
was actually aware Mrs P was in financial difficulty at the time it provided the second loan. It 
seems the information MYJAR actually had suggested the loan was affordable. 
Even if I were to find MYJAR could have done more to assess the affordability of the loan, I 
havent seen any information from Mrs P (like bank statements or a full credit report) which 
would allow me to conclude that more detailed checks wouldve shown the loan was 
unaffordable for Mrs P.
Given the above, I am unable to find that MYJAR lent to Mrs P irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman