DRN-4176120
The complaint
Ms C through a representative complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the 
money she lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. In November 2021 Ms C was in contact, via a dating platform, with a scammer 
that I will call B. B said he is an experienced crypto trader. B convinced Ms C that she should 
invest in his trading platform and explained how she could make money from crypto trading 
using his platform.
Ms C made two transactions - one of £1,000, the other of £9,000 on 10 November 2021 to a 
crypto exchange. These payments were then converted from pounds into a crypto currency 
and the crypto currency was then sent to a fake trading platform that was controlled by B. 
Ms C tried to withdraw some of her funds, but was unable to do so without paying further 
fees. After some back and forth between herself and B, she realised that she had been 
scammed.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2023 in which I said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Ms C made her payments, banks were expected to process payments a 
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should 
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction.
All of the payments in dispute were Faster Payments sent to a well-known crypto exchange. 
So, its reasonable for me to conclude that Monzo ought to have known that Ms C was likely 
purchasing crypto with these payments. Ive also thought about whether there was anything 
else about the payments which ought to have concerned Monzo.
The first payment
I agree with our investigators conclusions regarding the first payment. I dont think I can 
fairly say that the first payment was of a sufficient size, such that it would be deemed 
unusual  which had it been wouldve prompted Monzo to have intervened. I say this 
especially as Ms C had made transactions to trading platforms in the past, albeit these were 
not crypto platforms.
Payment Two
I do however think payment two, when taken cumulatively with payment one, ought to have 
warranted an intervention from Monzo. Payment two represented a total of £10,000 on the 
same day to a relatively new payee for Ms C.
Monzo confirmed it didnt intervene and I think it was a missed opportunity to do so. If Monzo 
had intervened (as I think it ought reasonably to have), Id have expected it to query with Ms 
C what the purpose of the payment was for. I think shed have likely explained she was 
purchasing crypto in order to transfer the funds to a third-party trading platform. Id also have 
expected Monzo to query whether she was doing this upon the advice of a third party. I think 
this would have prompted Monzo to highlight that it was likely that she was being scammed, 
as sending funds from a well-known crypto exchange, to a third party who she had met on a 
dating website - who she had not met in real life - who agreed to trade on her behalf has all 
the hallmarks of a crypto scam. Had this been pointed out, I dont think its likely that Ms C 
would have continued with the payment.
I note that there were no credible warnings about B at the time of the transactions. But as I 
said above, the details of what was happening were clearly in line with a common scam. I 
have no reason to doubt that Ms C would have been honest with Monzo had she been 
questioned by it and there is no indication that she was being coached by B.
So I think an intervention with Ms C at this point should have led Monzo to being aware that 
Ms C was potentially being scammed. I also think it likely that had Ms C been told this, she 
would not have proceeded with the transaction. After all, she had not met B and she had 
only been in contact with B for a few days. So, because of Monzos failure to act on clear 
triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Ms C would probably have not lost this payment.
Ive also thought about whether Ms Cs actions contributed to her losses. Despite regulatory 
safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take responsibility for their 
decisions.
In this instance Ms C met the scammer through a dating site and within a relatively short 
amount of time, without actually meeting the scammer in person, she was transferring large 
sums of money on the advice of someone she had only been talking to for around 9 days.
I cant see that Ms C did any substantial research or carry out any checks to determine that 
the scammers representations were true. She seems to have placed a lot of trust in a very 
short period of time with someone she did not really know. So overall I think that she is 
partially responsible for her own loss, so Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Ive considered whether Monzo could have recovered any of Ms Cs payments. But given 
that the payments were sent to a crypto exchange and were then forwarded on to B, I dont 
think that any recovery could have been made or that the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
applies in this instance.
Putting things right
Currently I am intending to ask Monzo Bank Ltd to do the following
1) Refund 50% of transaction 2; and
2) Add 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount, from the date of the payment, to the 
date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).In response to my provisional decision Ms C agreed with what I had recommended. Monzo 
did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new points, I see no reason to change the outcome that I 
proposed in my provisional decision.
So, in summary I think that Monzo should have intervened during transaction 2 and had it 
done so the scam would have been stopped. I therefore think that Monzo should refund 
transaction 2 and there should be a 50% deduction in the refund as I think Ms C contributed 
to her own loss for the reasons I outlined in the provisional decision.
I uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should do the following
1) Refund 50% of transaction 2; and
2) Add 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount, from the date of the payment, to the 
date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd should pay the redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman