DRN-4499815
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the 
money he lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
Mr M fell victim to a romance scam. Scammers based in Ghana persuaded him that he was 
talking to a woman who needed money for various things. They said she would come to the 
UK to be with him, but provided various excuses as to why she couldnt do so yet.
Mr Ms previous bank blocked him from sending money to Ghana, so he instead went to 
Barclays. Barclays also stopped him at first, and referred the matter to the police. But 
eventually, Barclays started letting the payments through, albeit warning Mr M repeatedly 
that it thought he was being scammed. Mr M sent around £50,000 to the scammers via 
Barclays, and Barclays charged him about £1,000 in international payment fees.
Mr M then passed away. The executor of his estate has brought this complaint. He thought 
Barclays should have prevented Mr M from making the payments.
Barclays felt it had done what it needed to by warning Mr M about scams. It pointed out that 
hed been unhappy when payments got blocked, and told them he was being charitable. It 
also claimed that there was no evidence Mr M had been scammed.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint, as they felt Mr M was 
determined to make the payments no matter what Barclays said. The executor asked for an 
ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2023, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
Im satisfied that the late Mr M fell victim to a scam here. The circumstances behind these 
payments are highly suspicious and fit closely with known methods of scams. The executor 
recovered emails between Mr M and the scammers which show the nature of the scam. And 
after numerous discussions with him, Barclays own staff  as well as the police  also found 
that Mr M was almost certainly being scammed.
Theres no dispute that the late Mr M authorised the payments involved, even if he didnt 
intend for the money to go to scammers. So, under the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms of his account, Mr M  or his estate  is liable for the loss in the first instance. But 
the matter doesnt end there.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Barclays 
should have fairly and reasonably:
Monitored accounts and payments to counter risks such as fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for particularly unusual transactions or other signs 
its customers were at risk of fraud;
In some circumstances, taken further steps or made further checks before a payment 
went out, or even blocked it, to help protect customers  irrespective of the type of 
payment involved.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms account activity in the months leading up to the scam, and I cant see 
any comparable activity. I think the payments involved stand out as being remarkable, so 
I think they should have prompted Barclays to intervene.
Indeed, I find that Barclays was clearly aware of the nature of these payments and 
reasonably knew that Mr M was almost certainly being scammed. I say this because:
It knew that Mr Ms previous bank had invoked the Banking Protocol and stopped him 
from making these payments to Ghana on scam grounds. It knew that Mr M had 
closed his account with them and come to Barclays in order to proceed with the 
payments. It knew this before allowing any payments.
Mr M initially tried to send over £100,000  an extremely high amount, and roughly all 
the money in his account  via Barclays to someone in a foreign country hed never 
met in person. The reasons he gave were highly suspicious and Barclays own staff 
thought he was being scammed.
Before it began to allow these payments, Barclays invoked the Banking Protocol itself 
on the grounds that Mr M was being scammed.
The police advised Barclays to decline payment, as by letting Mr M send his money 
this way it could be assisting in crime.
Mr Ms son had attempted to put a power of attorney in place with Barclays on the 
grounds that Mr M had symptoms of dementia and was being scammed.
Mr M was an elderly and vulnerable individual, sending a large number of large 
payments to someone hed never met, in a foreign country, under circumstances 
highly consistent with scams.
In reaching my finding that Barclays should have stopped these payments, Ive taken into 
account the Supreme Courts decision in Philipp v Barclays Bank UK PLC [2023] UKSC 25.
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks when making payments. In summary, among other things, it said:
The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, the 
bank must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself 
with the wisdom or risk of its customers payment decisions.The express terms of the current account contract may modify or alter that position. 
For example, in Philipp, the contract permitted Barclays not to follow its consumers 
instructions where it reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of 
APP Fraud; but the court said having the right to decline to carry out an instruction 
was not the same as being under a duty to do so.
In this case, Barclays terms and conditions gave it the right (though not obligation) to refuse 
a payment instruction if it reasonably thinks that its connected to fraud, a scam, or any other 
criminal activity, including where it thinks the funds are being obtained through deception.
So the starting position in law was that:
Barclays was under an implied duty at law to make payments promptly.
It had a contractual right not to make payments where it suspected fraud.
It had a contractual right to delay payments to make enquiries where it suspected 
fraud.
It could therefore refuse payments, or make enquiries, where it suspected fraud, but 
it was not under a contractual duty to do either of those things.
While the accounts terms did not oblige Barclays to refuse payments, I do not consider that 
any of these things precluded Barclays from doing so. And while Barclays was not required 
or obliged to do so, I am satisfied that, taking into account longstanding regulatory 
expectations and requirements, and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, 
it should fairly and reasonably have been on the lookout for the possibility of APP fraud, and 
should have taken additional steps  such as stopping payments  in some circumstances, 
such as in the circumstances of this case.
So for the reasons Ive explained, I find that Barclays should have intervened in this case 
and stopped the payments involved.
I am aware that the late Mr M was most unhappy when these payments were questioned or 
blocked. And I accept that he was convinced by the scammers and was very keen to make 
the payments. But Barclays was clearly aware that he was almost certainly being scammed, 
and it was in a position to block these payments outright. It had the knowledge and ability to 
protect its customer from fraud, it reasonably knew that letting these payments through 
would most likely harm its customer, it had been warned by the police, and it was not 
supposed to further financial crime. Given what it knew before it started allowing these 
payments, I find that Barclays acted unfairly and unreasonably in letting them go through. It 
follows that Barclays bears some liability for the payments involved.
Of course, Ive also thought carefully about Mr Ms role in what happened, and I accept that 
he also bears some liability. Im afraid I think Mr M ought to have had some concerns along 
the way about what he was being asked to do. I cant see that he carried out reasonable due 
diligence or verified who he was really speaking to  if he had done, its likely he would not 
have gone ahead. And I cant see that he had a reasonable basis to believe what he was 
being told. Further, he ignored clear warnings from his bank, his family, and the police in 
order to make the payments.So I cant fairly hold Barclays solely responsible for the late Mr Ms losses. I find that Mr M 
(and therefore his estate) should also bear 50% of the responsibility for those losses. 
Lastly, the executor complained about the way Barclays handled the matter for him. For 
example, Barclays didnt raise a scam case when he reported the matter, it passed him 
between departments and left him on hold for long periods, it was unclear about who was 
handling this, it was unhelpful when he was trying to find out what happened, and it tried to 
claim that there was no evidence Mr M had been scammed despite the clear signs this was 
a scam, being warned by the police, and its own staff even finding that hed been scammed.
I certainly understand where the executor is coming from, and I think Barclays actions here 
speak for themselves. However, I should explain that in a complaint brought by the late 
Mr Ms estate, Im only able to award compensation for losses to Mr M and his estate  but 
not to the estates representative. And were not the regulator, so we dont issue fines. So 
Im afraid Im unable to make any additional award for the way Barclays handled the matter 
for the executor  though Ive noted everything hes said.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Barclays accepted the 
provisional decision. The executor of the estate only wanted to raise one further point, 
which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executor of the estate asked that when considering liability, I take into account the late 
Mr Ms cognitive state at the time, which he explained was in decline.
I am grateful to the executor for being open with us about this, not least as I can only 
imagine that it is not an easy subject to talk about. I hope I can reassure him that I did take 
this point into account. It is part of why I departed from our investigators proposition of 
holding the late Mr M (and therefore his estate) liable for all of the loss.
I did also need to keep in mind that when the executor attempted to invoke power of attorney 
over the account, it was successfully blocked by Mr M, with the grounds given that he still 
had the proper capacity to manage his finances. And while Mr M was in a position of some 
vulnerability, Im afraid that he appears to have acted with some recklessness beyond what 
one might reasonably expect. He disregarded clear warnings from his bank, his family, and 
his police, and pressed forward without having a reasonable basis for believing what he was 
being told. In these circumstances, I cannot fairly hold Barclays 100% liable for the loss 
either. So I still find that the fairest thing is to split the liability between the two parties here.
Otherwise, neither side had any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, for the reasons set out above.Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund 50% of each of the disputed payments made to Ghana from Mr Ms Barclays 
account, along with 50% of any related interest and fees; 
Add 8% simple interest per year onto each partly-refunded amount, from the date it 
originally debited until the date of settlement. This is there to compensate the estate 
for the time it was without this money.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax 
from that simple interest, it should tell the estates executor how much tax its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. The estate may be able to 
reclaim the tax from HMRC.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
If the estate accepts the final decision, Barclays Bank UK PLC must carry out the redress 
within 28 days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman