DRN-4439074
The complaint
Mr S complains that WorldRemit Limited blocked and closed his account without an 
explanation. Mr S says he found it difficult to contact anyone to get information from them. 
He would like an explanation and the account reactivated.
What happened
Mr S had an account with WorldRemit.
Following activity in the account WorldRemit conducted a review of Mr Ss account in March 
2022. They requested information from Mr S about the transactions in the account. Mr S 
provided some information.
On 13 July 2022 WorldRemit decided they werent satisfied with Mr Ss answers, so they 
blocked his account. Mr S was asked to provide further information on 18 July 2022. Mr S 
provided the information requested on the same day. On 21 July 2022 Mr S was informed 
that his account would close with immediate effect. 
Mr S was unhappy he wasnt able to contact WorldRemit once his account was closed.
Mr S complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. 
WorldRemit didnt respond to her requests for further information.  So, she determined the 
complaint based on the evidence available. She thought that WorldRemit was entitled to 
review the account and ask for information to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. She also thought WorldRemit was entitled to close the account but should have 
given Mr S warning about the closure.  She didnt think that WorldRemit had provided good 
customer service because Mr S was unable to contact them after the closure.
She thought WorldRemit should pay Mr S £100 compensation. 
Mr S accepted the outcome. WorldRemit didnt respond. As there was no agreement the 
matter came to me and I issued a provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ss account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied WorldRemit were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr Ss account. 
Im satisfied that WorldRemit were entitled to ask for the information they requested from 
Mr S to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations, so I dont think they have acted 
unfairly here.
Because of these requirements financial businesses, like WorldRemit, have to monitor their 
customers accounts and may need to review an account at any time. While that is 
happening, they may need to block or restrict any payments.
This is reflected in WorldRemits terms and conditions.  WorldRemit requested information 
from Mr S which he didnt think needed to be provided. 
Because WorldRemit didnt receive the answers they needed they blocked the account and 
requested further information.  This was requested four months after the original information 
request. Looking at the emails between Mr S and WorldRemit I appreciate that Mr S was 
confused as there had been no further mention of the information and Mr S had been using 
his account for four months without any problem. I can understand why Mr S was confused 
about the block and request for further information and didnt realise it related to the request 
from four months earlier.  Mr S did provide information that WorldRemit had asked for on 
18 July 2022.
Mr S received notice that his account would close with immediate effect on 21 July 2022. 
The investigator in her view said that she thought Mr S should have been given warning that 
the account would close and looking at the evidence I agree. 
As the investigator explained its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not 
they want to provide, or to continue to provide, financial facilities to any particular customer. 
Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial 
institution must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their 
account closed.
But in closing an account a financial institution must act fairly. This normally means providing 
the customer with notice before closing the account. There are certain circumstances that a 
business can close an account with immediate effect. Mr Ss account was closed with 
immediate effect but looking at everything WorldRemit havent provided me with enough 
information for me to be satisfied that an immediate closure was warranted here.
Mr S has also mentioned that he had great difficulty in contacting WorldRemit to find out why 
his account had closed. He has said he didnt get a reply to emails, and he had to contact 
the company in other ways in order to get a response. Im satisfied that WorldRemit could 
have treated Mr S better by giving him warning of the immediate closure of his account and 
providing better customer service when Mr S tried to contact them. Mr S should receive 
compensation for this. The investigator thought £100 was a fair amount in the 
circumstances. Mr S agreed with that assessment. I havent seen anything to persuade me 
to change that amount, which I think is fair in the circumstances.
To put things right I am minded to ask WorldRemit to pay Mr S £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S has accepted my provisional decision. He said he was unhappy that WorldRemit hadnt 
provided a reason for the disabling of his account. He said that as they hadnt provided their 
reasons to the ombudsman or to him, they should be sanctioned. Mr S says he would like an 
apology and an acknowledgement that he didnt do anything wrong. 
WorldRemit said they were entitled to block and close the account and had complied with 
the terms of the account. They said they didnt think they had to compensate Mr S as their 
actions were carried out to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations.Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead an issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ss comments about my provisional decision. Mr S has mentioned that he 
thinks Worldremit should be sanctioned. I accept Mr S has found it frustrating to deal with 
Worldremit however the Financial Ombudsman Service is a dispute resolution service, and 
our remit is to decide cases on a fair and reasonable basis taking account of the law and 
regulations, codes and good practice. We do not sanction businesses.
Mr S has said he wanted a reason for the disabling of his account. But WorldRemit doesnt 
disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no 
obligation to tell Mr S the reasons behind the account block, as much as hed like to know. 
So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr S this information. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
I have considered the comments made by WorldRemit. I accept that they are entitled to 
review and block and close accounts and their terms allow them to do so.
However, As I mentioned in my provisional decision WorldRemit must provide this service 
with information to show why an immediate closure was warranted. Having received the 
provisional decision they havent subsequently provided enough information to this service to 
show that they acted fairly when they closed the account with immediate effect.  Because of 
this I must conclude that Worldremit havent provided me with anything that would lead me 
to change the findings in my provisional decision.
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right WorldRemit should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold this complaint and I require WorldRemit Limited 
to pay Mr S £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman