DRN-2214422
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the service Al Rayan Bank Plc provided in relation to his instant 
access account he holds with it.
What happened
Mr P attempted to process three separate payments of £20,000 in early December 2019 via 
his online banking account. All three payments totalled £60,000. He was under the 
impression that there was no daily limit as this was an instant access account. Mr P didnt 
receive confirmation that the transfers had been successful. But he did receive a voicemail 
on the same day from Al Rayan asking him to contact it.
Mr P contacted Al Rayan and was told that the payments had been blocked, so Al Rayan 
wanted to verify the payments before processing them. Mr P verified his details and asked to 
make a further transfer of £30,000. Therefore, the total he wished to transfer was £90,000.
Mr P was then advised that there was a £20,000 daily limit applied to all withdrawals. Mr P 
was concerned about this as his account was advertised as instant access account and he 
said this daily limit had never been advised in any documentation. So, he raised a complaint 
with Al Rayan.
Al Rayan looked into Mr Ps complaint, and it agreed that some confusion had been caused. 
It said Mr P should never have been allowed to attempt three transactions of £20,000 in one 
day. And as the payments appeared to debit his account (although two of the payments 
were held due to the daily limit) it gave Mr P the impression the transactions had been 
successful. Because if this Al Rayan offered Mr P £25.
Al Rayan went on to say that the daily limit is advertised on its website, under frequently 
asked questions. It also highlighted that the terms and conditions of the account state there 
is a daily a limit, and if a customer wishes to exceed the daily limit they would need to 
provide 48 hours notice. So, Al Rayan felt it had acted in accordance with its terms and 
conditions of Mr Ps account. But Mr P remined unhappy so he brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and he felt further compensation should be 
awarded. To summarise he said he had listened to the call which took place on 
3 December 2019 between Mr P and Al Rayan, and he felt further confusion had been 
caused as the agent said there was a daily limit on all methods of transfer. He said the agent 
didnt specifically make it clear to Mr P that he couldve written to the bank or gone into a 
branch to arrange a CHAPS payment where a daily limit isnt applied. Therefore, Mr P was 
misinformed, and this led him to believe his account wasnt an instant access account as 
advertised.
The investigator also said that he felt the £25 offer for the inconvenience Mr P experienced 
due to the glitch in Al Rayans systems wasnt enough. He said, as Mr P was under the 
impression the transfer had been successful, he was worried when he hadnt received 
confirmation that the funds had been transferred and he should be compensated for this. So, 
overall, he felt a further offer of £50 was fair and reasonable, making the total award £75 for 
the trouble and upset Al Rayan had caused.
Al Rayan didnt agree. It said it was happy to increase compensation offer to £50 because it 
accepted the agent had misinformed Mr P about the CHAPS process. But it didnt agree a 
total of £75 was fair compensation. It said Mr P processed the first £20,000 outside 
operating times and therefore the payment processed the next working day. However, its 
payment team did attempt to contact Mr P at around 1pm that same day and left a voicemail, 
but Mr P didnt contact Al Rayan until 5pm that day. At this point most of its internal 
departments were closed, so it feels it is unfair for it to be held accountable for the 
inconvenience it caused Mr P worrying about his funds.
As Al Rayan didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reason. I will 
explain why.
I think there are several elements to this complaint that resulted in him questioning his 
account, and overall, caused him an element of inconvenience. The issues that caused 
problems are: 
telephone call on 3 December 2019;
information available about the account; and
his transactions appearing to be debited from his account
Telephone call
During the call with the agent in early December, Mr P was told his daily limit applied for all 
withdrawals/transfers. However, this isnt the case. Mr P could have gone into a branch to 
arrange a CHAPS payment for the full amount to be transferred (or written to the bank  but I 
appreciate this may have taken longer for Mr P). But the agent never made him aware of 
this. Had Mr P been made aware of his alternative options during this call, I think the 
concerns he had regarding the instant access account being advertised incorrectly, would 
have been resolved. But instead this compounded Mr Ps confusion and lead him to consider 
the account literature.
Information available about the account
I have reviewed the terms and conditions provided by Al Rayan alongside the consumers 
conditions. I am satisfied that it is clear there is a daily limit if a consumer chooses to transfer 
funds via online banking and telephone banking. I have also reviewed the features and 
benefits page. And under the Instant Access product information, it explains under the 
withdrawal conditions for the Everyday account  No withdrawal limit. So, while I am 
satisfied the terms and conditions outline a daily limit existed if Mr C chose to transfer his 
money via online or telephone banking, I can also see why the supporting literature may 
have caused some confusion. And in turn, this would have caused further inconvenience for 
Mr P. I am pleased to see  Al Rayan  acknowledged this in its letter to Mr P dated 31 
December 2019 where it states:
. in view of the confusion caused by the literature regarding product information, I have asked our 
Product Development Team to review the product supporting materials.Transactions appearing to debit his account
Al Rayan has already explained that due to a glitch in its systems, Mr Ps funds appeared to 
have debited the account (although they were held due to the daily limit). And it has 
apologised for this and offered Mr P £25. I feel this compensates Mr P fairly for the error. I 
say this because, while it appeared Mr Ps transfer had been successful, Mr P was made 
aware the same day it hadnt been successful and the reasons why. Therefore, in relation to 
this specific error, I dont feel any further compensation is warranted. 
However, regarding the overall service Mr P has received, I do think more compensation is 
warranted. Thats because Mr P was given conflicting information, on more than one 
occasion. And this would have added to the confusion and frustration he was already 
experiencing when his transfers didnt go through as anticipated. 
Putting things right
In light of the reasons detailed above, I feel Al Rayan should pay a further £50 for the 
inconvenience it caused Mr P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and Al Rayan Bank Plc should pay Mr P a 
further £50 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman