DRN-3711681
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of her private medical insurance 
claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, and for these 
reasons:
Aviva correctly advised Mrs J that for a claim for private treatment to be considered, 
she would need a GP referral to a specialist. As Mrs J didnt have a referral from her 
GP, Aviva let her know of its Digital GP service. I think that was reasonable.
The policy excluded cosmetic procedures to restore appearance unless the 
procedure immediately followed an accident. Aviva put Mrs J on notice during the 
initial call that if she was referred (to a specialist) for scarring, then there wouldnt be 
cover under the policy for that type of referral. 
Mrs J is unhappy with the GP she saw through Avivas Digital GP service, as they 
didnt refer her to a specialist. Though as our investigator has explained, GPs have 
their own professional standards to adhere to and are regulated by the General 
Medical Council (GMC). The policy guide makes it clear that clinical complaints arent 
part of Avivas complaints process and the service was provided by a third party. I 
therefore cannot hold Aviva responsible for the GPs actions, and wont be 
commenting further on the GPs decision not to refer Mrs J to a specialist.
Mrs J says she couldnt access the policy terms when the link was sent to her by 
Aviva. I appreciate this would have been a little frustrating, but I see this was 
available through her employer, and that Aviva made Mrs J aware of this in its 
welcome email and during a call with Mrs J. I dont require Aviva to take further 
action in this respect, as Im satisfied Mrs J could have contacted her employer or 
clarified this with Aviva when she wasnt able to access the policy document through 
the link she received.
Finally, Mrs J says she delayed seeking private treatment for back pain, but I dont 
find that Aviva was responsible for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman