DRN-2279891
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) poorly handled their 
buildings insurance claim.
For ease of reading, any reference to RSA also includes its agents.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr and Mrs C noticed cracks in their home. Thinking this could be subsidence, 
they contacted RSA to make a claim. Due to the lack of availability of a loss adjuster to 
attend the property, RSA agreed Mr and Mrs C could obtain their own report, which stated 
that the likely cause of the subsidence problem was a leaking drain. 
When RSAs loss adjuster was able to attend the site, he reported that the likely cause for 
the damage was tree roots and recommended the trees be felled, which Mr and Mrs C 
disagreed with. Further investigations were carried out which showed there were issues with 
the trees and the drains  so the trees were removed, and the drains repaired. Further works 
were needed to the drains as a result of initial poor workmanship of the original contractor.
Mr and Mrs C complained to RSA about the overall handling of their claim. In January 2019 
RSA accepted that the claim had been handled poorly and offered £150 in compensation. It 
also said it would arrange for a manager at the loss adjuster firm to take over the handling of 
the claim. 
After another site visit, a scope of works to cover the repairs to the property was drawn up 
and the works were completed. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the standard of the work 
carried out and the loss adjuster reattended the property. He agreed that Mr and Mrs C 
should obtain quotes to complete any additional work needed and a cash settlement was 
provided to pay for this work in December 2019. As Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with 
the way the claim had progressed and the time it had taken to reach this point, a further 
complaint was made. 
RSA said that the loss adjuster had handled the claim appropriately. It said that any 
concerns about poor workmanship hadnt been brought to the loss adjusters attention so it 
couldnt look into this aspect. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and found that there were delays in resolving this 
claim, although she did note that some of this was down to a lack of availability of the 
contractor and/or loss adjuster at the times which would best have suited Mr and Mrs C. And 
she found there was poor workmanship that had been brought to the loss adjusters 
attention. She recommended an additional £350 compensation be paid to Mr and Mrs C in 
recognition of the unnecessary delays and poor workmanship.
Mr and Mrs C responded to our investigators opinion to say they didnt think that the 
additional compensation was enough. RSA also disagreed with our investigator. It said it 
wasnt fair to ask it to pay compensation for the poor workmanship as it hadnt had the 
opportunity to look into this. And RSA also felt that it shouldnt have to pay compensation as 
it wasnt wholly responsible for the delays.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts for 
consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to Mr and Mrs C. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit 
and my role in it.
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint relates to two main aspects; the overall handling of the claim and 
the poor workmanship of the contractors used. I have focused on these points in my decision 
and whether I think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with this matter.
With any insurance claim there is an element of inconvenience and, unfortunately with 
claims relating to subsidence, the time taken to deal with the matter can be quite lengthy. 
There was a wait of nearly two months from when the claim was first notified to RSA before 
a loss adjuster could attend and Mr and Mrs were unhappy with this timeframe. Whilst I can 
understand their frustration, I cannot hold RSA responsible for the limited availability for loss 
adjuster appointments at that time. RSA did agree to Mr and Mrs C obtaining their own 
report in the meantime which I think was a fair way to deal with the matter.
Im aware Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigations initially completed by RSA which 
stated there was a problem with tree roots and recommended nearby trees be removed. 
They felt that the information from their expert was ignored and they questioned the quality 
of the report issued by the loss adjuster. I think RSA is entitled to rely on the report from its 
loss adjuster when considering the claim and it is for RSA to decide on the way that report is 
provided. But I can see that further investigations did take place, and these showed that both 
the tree roots and drains were contributing to the problem. As both reports had identified the 
causes of the claim, albeit individually, Im not persuaded that RSA did anything wrong by 
initially relying on its loss adjusters findings. 
Unfortunately, the repairs to the drains were not completed correctly and it was necessary 
for these to be rectified. And it was at this point that a complaint was made to RSA. It agreed 
with Mr and Mrs C that its handling of the claim was not up to standard and so it arranged 
for an area manager to take over the handling of the claim. And it offered compensation of 
£150 for the problems that had occurred. As Mr and Mrs C had been unhappy with the 
previous loss adjuster appointed to their case, I think it was right for RSA to make this 
change and also to offer compensation for the problems that had occurred. I think the sum of 
£150 was reasonable at that point.
A site visit was arranged for early 2019 and it was agreed that the manager would put 
together the schedule of works for the completion of the damage that had been caused to 
the property as a result of the subsidence. But it took almost six weeks to provide this 
document to Mr and Mrs C. And after agreement on the schedule was obtained  which took 
just a matter of days  there was a further delay of approximately five weeks before the 
works began. Im aware that Mr and Mrs C did have some holiday during this time, but Im 
not persuaded that the delay from the site visit to the start of the works was reasonable. Mr and Mrs C have also complained about the quality of these repairs. RSA has commented 
that it thinks it is unfair for us to consider a complaint about poor workmanship that took 
place after January 2019 as it says it wasnt aware. But I dont agree. Following RSAs 
response in January 2019, Mr and Mrs C made our service aware that they wished to 
complain about ongoing issues including poor workmanship and our investigator sent details 
of the complaint in February 2020. 
After RSAs second response in May 2020, in which it stated its loss adjuster wasnt aware 
of any poor workmanship, our investigator provided RSA with copies of emails between the 
loss adjuster and Mr and Mrs C on this subject. It is clear from both the initial complaint 
details and these emails that Mr and Mrs C had expressed dissatisfaction to the loss 
adjuster about the work completed. Ive noted RSA responded back to our investigator with 
comments it had obtained from the loss adjuster about the workmanship issue. So, Im 
satisfied RSA had been made aware of this complaint aspect and was given the opportunity 
to investigate this and provide its response.
As detailed above, Mr and Mrs C have provided emails to show they notified the loss 
adjuster of their concerns with the work within days of completion in early May 2019. This 
included problems such as issues with plaster work, painting and staining on the patio. In 
July, the loss adjuster reattended the site and agreed for Mr and Mrs C to provide quotes 
from their own choice of contractors in order to put these problems right. Im aware that Mr 
and Mrs C have received payment for these costs. 
From what I have seen, whilst RSA had appointed the area manager to the claim in order to 
get the matter back on track, it is clear that things continued to go wrong. The timeframes for 
getting both the works done and obtaining a cash settlement to put right the repairs is quite 
lengthy. Im not persuaded this was all unavoidable. Some of those delays werent as a 
result of anything RSA had any control over  such as the time Mr and Mrs C were on 
holiday  and Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C had limited availability during normal 
working hours which did have an impact. But even so, Mr and Mrs C would have been 
expecting this to have progressed a lot sooner than it did and so I think additional 
compensation is warranted.
Ive thought about the matter of compensation carefully as I note Mr and Mrs C were not 
satisfied with the sum recommended by our investigator. As I mentioned before, any 
insurance claim will cause a level of inconvenience and so its likely Mr and Mrs C would 
have needed to take time off work for appointments and spent time dealing with claim 
matters. But I think they have been put to more inconvenience with this claim than I would 
normally consider necessary. This matter has also been drawn out by the additional problem 
with completing the repairs to a satisfactory standard and the need for a further visit to try to 
resolve the issue. Overall, I think that increasing the compensation to a total of £500  so 
paying an additional £350  would be fair in this case.
  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C an additional £350 in 
compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jenny GilesOmbudsman