DRN-3133391
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLCs (Barclays) charging structure 
on its overdraft was unfair because it was disproportionate to the amount borrowed.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D complained to Barclays about its pricing structure of its overdrafts. They say 
the rate is disproportionate to the amount borrowed.  They would like a refund of the charges 
incurred on their account. 
Barclays says the charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and eventually reached the 
conclusion Barclays hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly and so 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I understand that Mr & Mrs D are also unhappy with the charges applied to Mrs Ds sole 
account and the service Mr D has received from Barclays in relation to complaining about 
this. It should be noted that my decision only deals with the complaint point about Barclays 
pricing structure on Mr and Mrs Ds joint account. If they havent done so already Mr and Mrs 
D will have to raise these further complaint points about Mrs Ds sole account and the 
customer service received with Barclays first before we can get involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that Mr D is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to his 
account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Barclays various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs D if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Ds account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs D were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr and Mrs D 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr and Mrs D unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Ds statements I 
cant see anything to suggest that Barclays ought to have realised they might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty.  
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and the account 
was predominantly in credit. And when the overdraft was used the amount being credited to 
the account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of the account 
seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Ds account was 
being used. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D would like Barclays to provide them with a refund of charges 
and a better overdraft facility with a better rate - but Barclays is under no obligation to 
provide this and Mr and Mrs D are free to shop around if they arent happy with what is on 
offer.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays treated Mr and Mrs D 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman