DRN-3860007
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC would not process a refund for him under the 
Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) scheme.
What happened
Mr M says he asked Barclays to refund the money under the DDG scheme he paid to an 
energy company via a direct debit between 2013-2018. He says an energy company acted 
as a credit broker and they were supposed to notify the customer when entering into a 
service agreement and he was not made aware of this. Mr M made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays sent Mr M a questionnaire to complete and paid him £5 for the postage to return 
this so they could see if he was eligible for a refund under the DDG. Mr M completed and 
returned this, but Barclays said they were currently unable to complete his request for a 
refund under the DDG scheme as they did not have enough detail regarding the errors 
claimed. Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said Barclays handled his request fairly 
and reasonably and a contractual dispute is an example of an incorrect claim where the 
DDG doesnt apply. Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the wording of the DDG. It states that The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to 
all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare event that there is an error in the payment of your 
Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is 
collected. It cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing 
organisation. 
Here, Mr M has said that the issue is that the energy company acted as a credit broker and 
they are supposed to notify him when entering a service agreement. And he says he was not 
made aware of this. So Im not persuaded that this issue is covered under the DDG. I say 
this as Im satisfied that the issue arises from a contractual dispute that Mr M has with his 
former energy provider and the DDG is clear that It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
Im not persuaded Barclays were unreasonable to ask Mr M to complete a questionnaire 
before rejecting the claim as they need to ensure the criteria of the DDG scheme is met 
before refunding the money. And they paid him £5 towards postage costs, which was 
reasonable. But they decided based on the information provided that they did not have 
enough evidence to show that an error had been made with the direct debit. And I think that 
decision was fair here based on the evidence showing this is a contractual dispute between 
Mr M and the energy company.
So here, Mr M will need to speak directly with the energy provider to resolve his dispute. If 
he is unable to do this, then he may wish to make a complaint with the provider and then he 
may be eligible to take this complaint to the Energy Ombudsman if he is not satisfied with 
the outcome of his complaint. But he will need to check with them if he is eligible to do so as 
this is a separate Ombudsman service to our service. 
But as Im satisfied that Barclays made no error in not processing a refund under the DDG 
based on the information that was provided to them, as Im persuaded this is a contractual 
dispute between Mr M and the energy company. So it follows that I wont be asking Barclays 
to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman