DRN-3294316
The complaint
A company, A, has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim 
under a commercial insurance policy.
What happened
A contacted AXA when some uPVC cladding attached to a facade at a property was 
damaged during a storm. AXA assessed the claim and declined it because it said there was 
a lack of fixings to hold the cladding in place.
So, A complained to AXA. When AXA replied, it said it had reviewed As comments and 
additional photos and remained of the view that the fixings were insufficient or inadequate.
When A complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it 
was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim based on a lack of adequate fixings.
As A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
So, Ive looked at the first question of whether there was a storm. I can see there were wind 
speeds of 63mph around the time of the damage, which would be considered storm 
conditions. So, the answer to the first question is yes.
For the second question, I think strong enough winds could cause cladding to detach in 
some circumstances. So, I think the answer to the second question is also yes.
So, Ive thought about whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Ive 
looked at AXAs findings, including what it decided following each of the reviews it carried 
out and photos of the damage. AXA declined the claim due a lack of adequate fixings, 
meaning the number of nails and screws used to secure the cladding. AXA found very few 
fixings left in the ceilings or evidence of holes where they might have previously been. It also 
inspected the material that had fallen and found very limited evidence of any fixings. AXA 
has said It would appear that the sheets are mainly held at the edges rather than significant 
fixings along and towards the centre of the long lengths of cladding. It assessed this would 
have meant the fixings were gradually falling/ pulling out, irrespective of the weather 
conditions, due to the lack of secure fixing points.
Having looked at AXAs assessment and its reasons for its conclusions, I think it was 
reasonable for it to conclude the damage was the result of a lack of fittings to hold the 
cladding in place. Although the damage might have happened during a storm, I think the 
storm highlighted a pre-existing issue, rather than being the main cause of the damage. As 
the issues with the fittings would be considered defective design or poor workmanship, this 
wasnt covered by the policy. So, I think it was reasonable that AXA declined the claim. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman