DRN-3629352
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded seven payments from her account 
which she says were made without her authority.
What happened
Miss D has an account with Lloyds. 
In October 2021, some payments were made from her account. This included two transfers 
by faster payments to her account with another business. Early on 17 October 2021, Miss D 
reported these to Lloyds. Then on 18 October Miss D said a further payment had been made 
from her account  an international payment. 
In October 2021 some payments were made from her account. This included
Four debit card payments,
One international transfer to an account 
Two transfers by faster payments to her account with another business.
Miss D said she doesnt recognise these transactions and reported them to Lloyds. At first, 
she reported the payments to her other account. She later contacted Lloyds to report the 
other transactions.
Lloyds looked into this. It initially refunded the disputed transactions. But it said that the 
faster payments and the international transfer appeared to have been made from a device 
using the same internet protocol (IP) address as one used by Miss D. It couldnt see how 
Miss Ds account security had been compromised. It also received information from the 
merchants Miss D paid the debit card payments to that suggested these were genuine. So it 
held Miss D liable for the disputed payments. Dissatisfied, Miss D complained to Lloyds and 
referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at this and thought it was most likely that Miss D had made the 
payments in question. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss D didnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The regulations that apply to payment services say that these payments will be regarded as 
having been authorised by Miss D if she consented to them. And where Miss D denies 
having authorised these transactions, it is for Lloyds to show that these payments were 
properly authenticated.
Ive therefore considered the information provided by Lloyds.
Based on what Ive seen, the faster payments and international payment were made using 
Miss Ds online banking. And it appears they were made from a device with the same IP 
address as a device used by Miss D for undisputed activity on the account.
In the case of the debit card payments, I see Lloyds raised a dispute through the card 
networks chargeback scheme. In response it received details from the merchants that 
received the funds. Looking at this, I see one of the payments was made from a device with 
the same IP address as the other transactions, while in two other cases Miss D appears to 
have provided additional information to prove her identity. And Miss D has told us she had 
possession of the card.
With all this in mind, I need to decide whats most likely to have happened.
It seems most likely that the bank transfers were made from Miss Ds device. This means 
that whoever made the transaction needed access to both Miss Ds device and her online 
banking security credentials.
As such, I think its most likely that Miss D made these transactions. Shes told us nobody 
else had access to her computer or mobile phone, and that she hadnt shared her internet 
banking password or passcode.
Im also satisfied, on balance, that Miss D made the debit card transactions. Miss D has said 
only she had access to the card. And for the reasons Ive mentioned, it appears these were 
made from Miss Ds device or shed submitted additional information to verify her identity.
Miss D says her device may have been hacked, and Ive thought about that. But while I 
appreciate this will be disappointing to Miss D, Im not satisfied based on everything Ive 
seen that her device was hacked. And I havent seen anything to persuade me these 
transactions were carried out by a third party without her permission.
Im also mindful that the transactions took place over a number of days. Lloyds says it sent 
Miss D text messages to confirm that it had set up new payees, though Miss D disputes this. 
In any event, Miss D doesnt appear to have contacted Lloyds to report the disputed 
transactions until shortly after the international transfer was made on 17 October. Based on 
the information Ive seen, this appears to have been the last of the payments made from the 
account.
Ive considered Miss Ds further comments. But they dont change my conclusions.
For the reasons above, I conclude that Miss D authorised the transactions in question. It 
follows that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint and Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman