DRN-3813341
The complaint
Ms R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard charged her too much 
interest and they have provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Ms R has a Barclaycard credit card. She says that from January 2020 she has been paying 
interest on her account and she doesnt feel the interest charged is fair. She says that 
although she is not in financial difficulty, she is making large interest repayments, which 
leaves her with nothing. She tried to speak to Barclaycard about this and she was 
transferred to a manager who provided her poor customer service. She said he abruptly 
refused her request to have the interest refunded. Ms R complained to Barclaycard as she 
wanted a refund of the interest she has paid, in order to reduce her balance. 
Barclaycard did not uphold Ms Rs complaint. They said the interest charges have been 
applied correctly in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of her account. They 
said although Ms R had mentioned she wasnt in financial difficulty, some of their customers 
may experience financial difficulty from time to time and she should contact them if she 
wishes to speak to them about financial difficulties. Barclaycard provided contact details for 
her to do this. Ms R brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Rs complaint. He said he considered whether there was 
any evidence of Barclaycard not correctly applying interest as set out in the terms and 
conditions of her account. And he hadnt been presented with evidence to suggest that the 
terms werent correctly applied or that the addition of interest was unfair.
Our investigator looked into the poor customer service that Ms R said she received. He said 
without further information about the timing of the call, he hadnt been able to substantiate 
the complaint that she made about the way the business spoke to her and Barclaycard had 
been able to provide a record of the conversations they had with her. 
Ms R asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that all of her sickness payments and more is going to banks which is 
affecting her general day to day living. She said she is aware of the interest charges in the 
terms and conditions. She said she was transferred to a manager who abruptly refused to 
refund the interest charges and she feels this shows inflexibility and bad customer service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. Ive also 
read about what Ms R has said about her health condition. So Im aware of the debilitating 
symptoms which she may experience.
Ms R has told us about how the interest she pays to banks affects her standard of living. But 
I must be clear to Ms R from the outset that Im only able to look into the actions of 
Barclaycard here, and not any other business, as this complaint is solely against 
Barclaycard.
Ms R has acknowledged that shes aware of what the terms and conditions state about the 
interest Barclaycard will charge. Our investigator quoted a passage of the terms and 
conditions in the view he issued to her, so I wont go into great depth about these here. 
Instead, Ill focus on whether Barclaycard have been reasonable in not refunding her the 
interest they charged, as Im satisfied that this is the crux of her complaint.
Based on what Ms R has told us though, she may actually be in financial difficulty. I say this 
as if she is struggling to make payments to her accounts based on her income and the 
impact the interest is having on her, then she may wish to reach out to Barclaycard or a debt 
management charity to discuss her options available. The details for these organisations are 
on the response that Barclaycard sent her on their response to her complaint.  
But Ms R herself has told Barclaycard that she is not in financial difficulty. And my 
understanding is that she has been able to maintain her payments to the account. So Im not 
persuaded that Barclaycard would have been aware of her wider financial circumstances. So 
Im persuaded that Barclaycard have been reasonable in not refunding the interest they have 
charged her. I say this as Barclaycard are entitled to charge interest on the account in line 
with the terms and conditions. And Ms R would have agreed to these terms when she 
opened the account. And because Ms R has told them that shes not in financial difficulty, I 
cant say Barclaycard have done anything wrong in not refunding the interest they charged 
her.
Ive considered what Ms R has said about the poor customer service she received, 
particularly a call she had with a manager. Ms R is unable to provide us with any further 
details about this call such as the time and date of the call, but she has provided her landline 
telephone number. Weve asked Barclaycard to send us screenshot evidence of their call 
recording systems to try and locate the call in question. Barclaycard have sent our service 
screenshots of calls from Ms Rs telephone number, between January 2020 and August 
2021 (when she brought her complaint to our service), but there is only one occasion which 
shows a call recording from Ms R, in May 2021.  
So Im unable to listen to the call Ms R has referred to. Thats not to say that Ms R didnt 
have this conversation with a manager, it just means the evidence shows that there is no call 
recording or system notes of this conversation. So Im unable to listen to how things were 
said or in what context, therefore Im unable to determine if Barclaycard have done anything 
wrong here based on the lack of information available to me. 
I have read the transcript of the May 2021 call. This was after Ms R had complained to 
Barclaycard, but it appears she hadnt received the response from them. The call handler 
read the contents of the letter to Ms R and signposted her to our service. Ms R thanks the 
call handler and it appears she was happy with the service provided on the call. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard acted unreasonably in applying the interest 
to the account and not refunding this when Ms R asked them to do so. And I havent been 
able to evidence any poor service which would result in compensation being awarded to Ms 
R. So it follows that I dont require Barclaycard to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman