DRN-4104770
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt make the implications of selecting its breathing 
space option, for his loan, clear enough  meaning his credit file was adversely affected.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr W contacted Monzo via the in-app chat function, as he was changing 
jobs. That was going to cause a delay in receiving a full salary payment, which he worried 
might leave him short on funds for one or two months. Mr W had several accounts with 
Monzo (an overdraft, a Flex account and a loan), but his loan instalments were the largest of 
his outgoings. So, initially he sought a payment holiday from the bank, given the short-term 
nature of his anticipated financial difficulty. Mr W also said he had the option of borrowing 
money from his grandparents to cover the repayments, but hed rather not have to.
Monzo told Mr W it didnt offer payment holidays, but it did have an option called breathing 
space. The agent explained this option would last 30 days and mean interest was frozen. 
Monzo also said no automated messages would be sent about the debts, and it would 
contact Mr W shortly before the period was up to discuss his options. Mr W replied that hed 
go for the breathing space option if all that would happen was payments were frozen and 
he wouldnt be contacted. 
Monzos agent applied breathing space to Mr Ws accounts, and sent him the generic terms 
wording in the in-app chat  which included the paragraph If you remain/go beyond your 
overdraft limit and/or miss payments towards your loan/Flex well need to let our credit 
reference agencies know. This could impact your credit score and make it harder to borrow 
in the future.
In September 2022 Mr W contacted Monzo to discuss extending the breathing space 
option. The agent explained it could only be applied for another 30 days, after which a 
payment plan would need to be agreed if full instalments still werent manageable. Mr W 
pushed for further clarity and how the breathing space option worked was told essentially 
while on breathing space, payments are still due for your Loan and your Flex. Any missed 
payments for both the loan and Flex could be reported to our credit reference agencies as 
missed payments. Monzo also confirmed a missed payment has been reported for August.
Mr W complained that he wasnt told a payment wouldnt be taken automatically for his Flex 
account before agreeing to the breathing space option  and he was able to continue 
paying that borrowing. Mr W also argued Monzo hadnt made it clear enough that a payment 
would still be due on his loan, and had it done hed have borrowed from his grandparents to 
avoid his credit file being impacted.
In its final response to the complaint, Monzo agreed it hadnt told Mr W the Flex account 
payment wouldnt be taken automatically. But given Mr W had thankfully made a payment 
shortly after it was due, a missed payment hadnt been reported. Monzo paid him £30 
compensation for that mistake. But the bank thought it had been clear enough that he still 
needed to make a full payment towards his loan during the breathing space period, to avoid 
having a missed payment recorded with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). 
Unhappy with the response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service for review. An 
investigator here didnt recommend the complaint was upheld, so Mr W appealed the 
outcome  and the case was passed to me for a decision on the matter. 
I wrote to the parties explaining that I didnt think Monzo had made it clear a payment would 
still be due on his loan. I also said, as far as I could tell, the breathing space option had 
been of minimal benefit to Mr W. Consequently I deemed it wasnt fair for the bank to record 
the August 2022 payment had been missed, as I was persuaded Mr W would have borrowed 
the funds needed to cover the instalment. I said I planned to direct Monzo to remove the 
adverse credit file record, and thought £300 should be paid to its customer to fairly 
compensate the distress and inconvenience caused by the mistake.
Mr W accepted my provisional findings. Monzo didnt agree  and maintained it had made it 
clear any missed payments would be reported. The bank also explained the benefit of 
breathing space was that no payment would be automatically taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint  and for the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional findings.
Im not persuaded the breathing space option offered Mr W any real benefit, in terms of his 
loan. I asked Monzo to explain how it worked  specifically what help it provided to Mr W, 
and what would happen in terms of making up the payments not made. The banks reply 
indicated the only benefit for the loan was that payments wouldnt be taken automatically. 
But, practically speaking, that left Mr W in the same position he would have been had he not 
reached out to Monzo  and instead just cancelled the direct debit himself or allowed the 
payment to bounce. It also seems hed have had to make up any missed payments within 
the original term of the loan, adding financial pressure once he was back on track. But it isnt 
really clear how Monzo intended that to work, going by the in-app chat explanations and its 
replies to my questions. So I can understand why Mr W was also confused. 
There was potentially a small benefit to be gained from the interest freeze on his other two 
accounts, but Mr W was able to continue maintaining those. It was the loan instalment he 
was most concerned about when he contacted Monzo for support ahead of experiencing 
some short-term financial difficulty. Overall, I consider the banks intervention made his 
situation worse. Monzo recognised it fell short in its explanation of the arrangement for the 
Flex account, and there wasnt any impact to put right there  as Mr W resolved that himself. 
I acknowledge the template wording Mr W was given by Monzo during the in-app chat said 
missed payments would be reported to the CRAs. But Monzo had effectively agreed Mr W 
didnt need to make a payment during the breathing space period. So he assumed that if he 
didnt make a payment it wouldnt be considered a missed instalment  because the bank, 
as far he was concerned, wasnt expecting one. I find that to have been a reasonable 
conclusion on Mr Ws part, given the explanation he received. 
What Monzo didnt make clear, until Mr W got in contact the following month, was that a 
payment was still due while breathing space was applied  and not paying the full 
instalment would lead to adverse information being reported. The breathing space help for 
his loan could have been summarised as we wont collect the payment for you, but you still 
need to make your own arrangements to pay it if you dont want your credit file to be 
negatively impacted. I dont consider that was made sufficiently clear to Mr W.Had it been, Im satisfied Mr W would have been able to borrow the amount needed from his 
grandparents  given hed told Monzo that was an option up front, and was able to quickly 
do that once the impact of not paying became clear. Mr W knew that a missed payment on 
his credit file could potentially have serious ongoing implications for him, so I think he would 
have been keen (and able) to avoid that happening. 
Putting things right
So, owing to the above, Ive concluded it isnt fair that Monzo recorded a missed payment (or 
anything adverse) on Mr Ws credit file for August 2022. Im therefore directing Monzo to 
remove that entry, and instead record that a payment was received on time  as I think thats 
what likely wouldve happened had the bank given Mr W clear information. 
Mr W has described the worry and stress hes been caused as a result of Monzos mistake, 
and the resulting the impact to his credit file. Hes spoken about his concern over how it 
would affect his ability to re-mortgage or take out further credit in future, and hes had that 
hanging over him since he complained in September 2022. Thankfully, it hasnt yet impacted 
his financial arrangements. But taking into account the distress and inconvenience Mr W has 
been caused, and our published guidance on deciding this type of compensation, I consider 
an award of £300 would be fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd, and direct the bank to:
remove the missed payment entry from his credit file for August 2022, and replace it 
with an entry that shows he made the loan payment on time for that month; and
pay Mr W £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman