DRN-3793071
The complaint
Ms P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined cover for parts of a claim 
made under her landlord insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it takes responsibility. 
What happened
In 2020, Ms Ps tenants fell into arrears on their rent. After gaining vacant possession, she 
found damage to the property. So she made a claim for the legal costs to pursue the tenants 
for the dilapidations under her landlord insurance policy. 
Ageas instructed a solicitor to assess the merits of the claim. They said that, out of the four 
areas of loss Ms P had claimed for, they were of the opinion only two enjoyed reasonable 
prospects of success. Based on this advice, Ageas agreed to cover the costs to pursue 
those two areas. 
But Ms P was unhappy as she wants her claim covered in full. She says Ageas and the 
solicitors have misunderstood her claim and that there are factual inaccuracies in the advice 
resulting in it being undervalued. Shes raised a complaint which she brought to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied Ageas could fairly rely on 
the legal assessment when making a decision on the available cover for this claim. As Ms P 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ms Ps strength of feeling regarding her complaint. I want to reassure her that 
whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint points in far less detail and in 
my own words, Ive read and considered everything shes told us. Im satisfied Ive captured 
the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on every point individually, or 
possibly in the level of detail Ms P would like, in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ps landlord insurance policy says that claims must have 
reasonable prospects of success which means it must be more likely than not that the claim 
will win.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, Ageas has obtained a legal assessment from one of its panel firms of solicitors 
who said there are reasonable prospects of obtaining a general award for cleaning and 
disrepair costs as well as a contribution towards disposed items. But there arent prospects 
of successfully recovering costs for lost rent whilst the property was being cleaned / repaired 
and for the costs of Ms Ps own time in completing works. Based on this advice, Ageas said 
it would only cover the parts of the claim which had reasonable prospects.
Im satisfied the advice is well-reasoned, and its been obtained from a suitably qualified 
lawyer. So I havent seen anything to persuade me that Ageas couldnt rely on it. 
I appreciate Ms P disagrees as she believes the advice is obviously wrong and based on 
factual mistakes. She says the work was carried out by contractors which shes provided 
invoices/receipts for  but I can see this has been taken into account under the first area of 
loss. She also doesnt understand why the solicitor has referred to cleaning under the lost 
rent but the solicitor has explained that Ms P hasnt mitigated her loss by ensuring the 
property was cleaned and repaired for relet quickly. 
Overall, Ms P doesnt think the solicitors have given an explanation for their opinion on 
prospects but having read the advice Im satisfied they have and as Ive explained above, I 
see no reason why Ageas couldnt rely on it when making a decision on the claim. 
Rather, its up to Ms P to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of her claim, at her 
own cost, if she wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then Id 
expect Ageas to reconsider the claim. But on the information available at this time, Im 
satisfied Ageas decision to decline these aspects of the claims was in line with the policy 
terms and fair in the circumstances. Should Ms P wish to accept cover for the two areas of 
claim considered to have prospects, she should let Ageas know directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman