DRN-3638162
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy how Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) have 
handled her claim under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) for 
accommodation that wasnt used. 
Mrs H has been represented throughout the complaint by a family member, but for ease of 
reading Ill refer to Mrs H throughout this decision. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs H booked a holiday chalet in France for her and her family to use. She paid 
a deposit of £998.40 using her Tesco credit card to the chalet provider, who Ill refer to as S. 
The remaining balance of £2,976.76 was paid by bank transfer in January 2020. The trip 
was scheduled for 21 March 2020 for seven days, and Mrs Hs daughter was the lead party 
for the booking. 
On 19 March 2020 Mrs Hs daughter received an email from S. It said that the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised against all but essential international travel 
because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The email continued to say it wasnt going to be 
possible for the travelling party to stay in the chalet. 
A couple of days later Mrs H got in touch with Tesco to ask for her money back. She asked 
Tesco to raise a S75 claim on her behalf for the full amount. 
Tesco raised a chargeback for the deposit amount of £998.40. This was credited to Mrs Hs 
credit card in July 2020. They raised a subsequent S75 claim for the remaining amount in 
September 2020. A month or so later Tesco got in touch with Mrs H to tell her that her S75 
claim had been declined. They said S had shown that the chalet was still available to be 
used, and therefore there hadnt been a breach of contract. 
Mrs H didnt accept this and raised a complaint to Tesco. She said that the chalet wasnt 
available as France was in a national lockdown at the time. She also said the email from S in 
March 2020 confirmed the chalet couldnt be used  so in essence S had cancelled the 
booking. Tesco didnt change their decision to decline the claim, so Mrs H brought her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the information provided by Tesco and by S 
confirmed the chalet was still available to use, and therefore S hadnt breached the contract 
and Tesco werent liable to reimburse Mrs H for the remaining amount. 
Mrs H didnt agree with this. She continued to say that she didnt believe the chalet was 
available because of the lockdown in place at the time. 
As Mrs H didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has already received £998.40 back through the chargeback process. It seems that Ss 
bank didnt challenge the chargeback claim when it was raised. As this is the total amount 
Mrs H paid on her Tesco credit card, and therefore the maximum amount that could be 
reclaimed by this method, Im satisfied this has been refunded to her correctly. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
laws and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice. 
In this case the relevant law includes S75 of the CCA. S75 says that in certain 
circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the 
credit provider if theres either a breach of contract of misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services. This is subject to certain criteria that need to be satisfied such as the 
claim has to be within specific financial limits and the existence of debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) relationship between the parties. 
I find these criteria have been met here. Although Mrs Hs daughter was the lead party on 
the chalet booking, I think Mrs H was at least a joint contracting party. Ss terms and 
conditions at the time of the booking define who the contract is between. It defines you and 
your as all persons named on the booking. And it goes on to state that the contract is 
between S and you. Mrs H is named on the booking and is therefore contracted to S. So, 
Im satisfied she has a DCS relationship here with Tesco and S.
Tesco have declined Mrs Hs S75 claim as they feel S have shown that the chalet was 
available and, therefore, no breach of contract has occurred. I agree with this. Ill explain 
why.
Mrs H believes that the email sent to her daughter by S on 19 March 2020 was, in effect, S 
cancelling the chalet. However, Im not persuaded that the email does confirm the chalet has 
been cancelled. It explained that the FCO had advised against all but essential travel for 
British Nationals, meaning it wouldnt be possible for Mrs H and the rest of the travelling 
party to travel to France. But it didnt say that the chalet would be closed or had to close 
because of any lockdown restrictions imposed by the French government. It only said Mrs H 
wouldnt be able to travel there to make use of it. That doesnt mean S have breached their 
contract with Mrs H as their responsibility was to provide the chalet  they werent 
responsible for Mrs Hs travel to France. 
S have also supplied evidence that suggests the chalet was still available for the duration of 
Mrs Hs intended stay. Whilst it isnt in dispute that France had been placed into near-total 
lockdown, the evidence Ive seen confirms that hotels and similar accommodations were 
able to remain open, even if the ski resort itself had been forced to close. I fully accept that 
the trip had been booked for Mrs H and her family to make use of the facilities at the resort 
as well as the chalet itself, but the lack of available facilities doesnt mean the contract 
between Mrs H and S has been breached. Because of that, I cant say that Tesco have 
acted unfairly when making their decision to decline Mrs Hs S75 claim. There isnt enough 
evidence from Mrs H to suggest the chalet wasnt available. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, as shes out of pocket for a considerable 
sum for something that is, ultimately, out of her control. But I am only deciding if I think 
Tesco have dealt with her S75 claim fairly based on the information theyve been provided 
with  and in this case I think they have.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman