DRN-4166474
The complaint
Mr M, with the assistance of an appointed representative, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him finance (under a conditional sale 
agreement) he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement for a used car costing 
£9,611.00.
Under the term of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr M undertook to make 
59 monthly payments of £314.74 making a total repayable of £18,569.66 at an APR of 
34.9%.
In July and September 2018 Mr M entered into payment plans with Moneybarn.
In April 2019 Moneybarn issued Mr M with a default notice.
In May and July 2019 Mr M entered into payment plans with Moneybarn.
In November 2019 Mr M decided to voluntary terminate his agreement, as was his right and 
Moneybarn sent him a final billing letter.
In December 2021 Mr M entered into a payment plan with Moneybarn.
In January 2022 Mr M complained to Moneybarn that it had acted irresponsibly in lending to 
him in March 2017.
In March 2022 Moneybarn issued Mr M with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Moneybarn said it was satisfied it acted responsibly when lending to Mr M in 
March 2017. 
In summary it said that before agreeing to lend it:
undertook a full credit search to establish Mr Ms current borrowing levels and 
repayment history (including arrears and defaults)
verified Mr Ms declared monthly income of £1,396.80 to four fortnightly pay slips
it estimated Mr Ms non-discretionary expenditure
And these checks allowed it to conclude:
Mr Ms existing borrowing levels were moderate
there was one missed payment noted
there was one or more defaults registered but the most recent was 34 months old 
and payments against this defaulted sum (and others) were being made
there were no county court judgements recorded
Mr M hadnt been declared insolvent
Mr M had a surplus income of £349.20 from which to meet the proposed monthly 
agreement payment of £314.74
It also said that Mr M signed one or more documents to say that the monthly repayments 
were affordable, and he didnt envisage anything that would (during the term of the 
agreement) cause him to be able to not make each and every repayment on time.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said he wasnt persuaded that Moneybarn had carried 
out proportionate lending checks. But in the absence of anything from Mr M (such as bank 
statements and/or a copy of his credit file) to demonstrate what proportionate checks by 
Moneybarn might have uncovered he couldnt reasonably conclude Moneybarn made an 
unfair lending decision.
Mr M didnt agree and sent the investigator bank statements and a copy of his credit file. The 
investigator considered what Mr M had sent him but wasnt persuaded to change his mind 
that Moneybarn hadnt made an unfair lending decision.
Because Mr M didnt agree with the investigators initial and subsequent view his complaint 
has been passed to me for review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn (and Mr Ms appointed representative) will be familiar with all the rules, 
regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out 
in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our 
website. 
Before agreeing to lend, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr M about his income. I say this because it verified his income by 
checking four fortnightly payslips from him.
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit checks it completed. But based on what it 
says these checks uncovered I, like the investigator, think it should have undertaken further 
checks into Mr Ms financial position and personal circumstances to establish whether the 
lending it ultimately granted was affordable or not, especially in respect of his 
non-discretionary expenditure.
One of the ways that Moneybarn could have verified Mr Ms expenditure was by reviewing 
his bank statements and/or by completing an income and expenditure form. While 
Moneybarn wasnt required to do either, Ive reviewed three months of Mr Ms bank 
statements. I think this gives me a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have 
found out had it completed proportionate checks. 
And having done so I can confirm that Im in agreement with the investigator that reasonable 
and proportionate checks by Moneybarn wouldnt have, nor should it have, caused it to 
conclude that it shouldnt lend to Mr M. In coming to this view, Ive had regard to the fact 
that the statements Mr M has provided our service suggest he had very little by way of what 
could be described as non-discretionary expenditure, he never went overdrawn and no 
payments (such as standing orders and direct debits) went unpaid by his bank. For the sake of completeness, I would also add that Ive seen nothing in the credit report 
provided to our service by Mr M dated April 2021 that contradicts what Moneybarn says its 
credit check uncovered.
Given what I say above I can confirm that Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly 
(or irresponsibly) in lending to Mr M in March 2017.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman