DRN-4138908
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way West Bay Insurance Plc dealt with a claim he made 
under his motorcycle insurance policy when his motorbike was stolen. 
What happened
Mr Ms motorbike was stolen and he made a claim to his insurer, West Bay. Mr M 
complained that West Bay didnt include accessories he wished to claim for in the settlement 
and previous costs hed paid under the most recent MOT for the motorbike. He thought West 
Bay hadnt been clear about what was covered. He was unhappy about the time West Bay 
took to respond to his complaint. 
West Bay apologised for the delay. But it said there was no change to the information it gave 
Mr M when he called to make his complaint. So there was no impact or change in outcome 
as a result of the delay.
West Bay didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the accessories he claimed for were 
excluded under the policy. It said it asked questions about any recent changes to the bike as 
part of its validation process. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought 
West Bay had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease Ill set out Mr Ms complaints under headings below. 
West Bay didnt meet Mr Ms claim for accessories
Mr M claimed for phone equipment and two locks as stolen accessories when his motorbike 
was stolen. West Bay excluded these from the settlement sum it paid. 
Insurance policies dont provide cover for everything. We look at whether an insurer has 
defined what it will and wont cover in a clear way under the policy. 
West Bay provided Mr M with an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) along with 
the policy wording and certificate of insurance when he bought the policy. 
The IPID provides a summary of cover - and refers Mr M to the full policy wording for 
detailed information to support the summary. Key information from the IPID in relation to Mr 
Ms claim reads:
We will not pay any amount of more than £400 for any one claim for spare parts and 
accessories fitted to your motorcycle, which is after the Excess deduction.
And it excludes cover for;
loss of damage to keys, locks or ignition activators, alarms or immobiliser activators
As the IPID is a summary, West Bay explained the following at the top of the IPID:
This document provides a summary of the key information relating to this motor 
insurance policy and should be read in conjunction with your Policy Wording, Policy 
Schedule, Certificate and proposal form or statement of fact to ensure you 
understand the full terms and conditions that apply.
Under the policy wording, West Bay defines the term accessories as follows:
Additional or supplementary parts of your motorcycle not directly related to its 
function as a motorcycle. This definition includes top boxes, tank bags and other 
luggage carriers while fitted to your motorcycle but does not include telephone, 
audio, navigation equipment, helmets or clothing.
Mr Ms claim was considered under section B of the policy as a theft claim. The policy 
wording under this section sets out what is and isnt covered - and the key statement for Mr 
Ms claim for locks reads:
Exceptions to Sections A & B.- Loss of or damage to keys, lock or ignition 
activators, alarm or immobiliser activators
And so from the information made available to Mr M when he bought the policy, Im satisfied 
that West Bay explained what was and wasnt covered. And so I dont think it acted 
unreasonably in not meeting Mr Ms claim for phone equipment and locks - as these were 
excluded from cover. 
West Bay didnt consider Mr Ms claim for costs from the last MOT 
Mr M is unhappy that West Bay asked him for details of the last MOT when he made his 
claim - but didnt consider the costs he said hed paid. He said the questions about the MOT 
misled him into believing West Bay would consider these costs under his claim. 
The key question asked of Mr M was: Please describe any work carried out to the vehicle in 
the last 3 months including how much this cost?
Mr M responded to say he had carried out works to the motorbike under the most recent 
MOT and had a tyre replaced. 
West Bay explained that it asked this question as part of its validation of the claim. I dont 
think there is anything wrong in an insurer asking reasonable questions when validating a 
claim. I cant see that West Bay misled Mr M to believe that by answering this question, the 
costs he paid under the most recent MOT would be included in the settlement sum. 
We cannot look at any delay an insurer has caused in responding to a complaint - as this is 
outside of our jurisdiction. But I can see Mr M wasnt prevented from bringing his complaint 
to us. Eight weeks after he raised his complaint with West Bay, it provided Mr M with his 
referral rights to this service in line with the timeframes set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
In response to the Investigators view, Mr M raised the following policy term which he 
believes his claim should be covered under:
Up to £5,000,000 in costs for any one property damage claim or series of claims 
arising out of one event
However, this statement has been taken from a different section of cover to the theft claim 
section which applies to Mr Ms claim. This statement relates to cover in the event of Mr M 
causing property damage: for example, if he accidentally drove into a fence or wall belonging 
to a third party. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But from the information available, I 
dont think West Bay acted unreasonably in excluding the phone equipment and locks from Mr Ms claim. I think it properly considered his claim in line with the policy terms. So this 
means Im not asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman