DRN-3559143
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed them for money lost to a 
fraudulent investment.
What happened
This complaint relates to money lost on Mr Ss sole credit card and from his joint account 
with Mrs S, using his debit card.
Mr S says he saw an endorsement from a celebrity for company B, who said they were an 
investment broker. He started with an initial lower deposit and then received a return on the 
investment so he continued to deposit more sums. Mr S sent c.£26,000 from the credit card 
account and joint account over two weeks, with the vast majority sent over five days.
Mr S has described how B interacted with him, using pressuring tactics and guarantees of 
profits to get him to send these further funds. His account lost a large sum and he was then 
passed to different contacts who said they would recover this if he deposited more and they 
would pay him bonuses to match his deposit. Hes also then described how he wanted to 
withdraw some funds and was told he couldnt until hed deposited more money. When he 
explained he didnt have any more funds, he was told he couldnt withdraw his balance 
without this and then he was ignored by B. This is when Mr and Mrs S realised it was a 
scam.
HSBC looked into the scam, but said it couldnt help Mr and Mrs S. It said they didnt have 
the evidence for a chargeback claim. And that the credit card transactions didnt benefit from 
protection under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr and Mrs S complained 
about this, but HSBC didnt change its stance.
Mr and Mrs S came to our service and our investigator ultimately upheld their case. He said 
that the credit card payments did benefit from Section 75 protection. And he said that the 
second debit card payment sent by Mr S ought to have triggered an intervention by HSBC, 
as it was unusual for this account. He felt this intervention wouldve unravelled the scam and 
stopped Mr S sending any further funds. And as Mr S had flagged the scam with HSBC 
while he was still actively dealing with B, he also considered that HSBC couldve explained 
chargeback claims  and Mr S couldve then successfully claimed the first payment back 
through this voluntary scheme.
Our investigator therefore concluded that HSBC should refund all the money Mr and Mrs S 
sent B, minus the initial payment they received back. He awarded 8% interest on the 
payments.
HSBC disagreed with the outcome. It maintained Section 75 didnt apply and said that Mr S 
hadnt taken the appropriate care or research before sending his funds. It disagreed the 
second payment should trigger and said that an intervention wouldnt have stopped Mr S as 
he was confident in B at this time. It highlighted that the celebrity had distanced themselves 
from this advert before Mr S says he saw it. And it disagreed with the interest rate applied. 
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit card payments
Im in agreement with our investigator that Section 75 does apply to these payments. By this 
time HSBC has received a number of final decisions from our service setting out our 
approach to credit card payments made to these types of scams. Testimony can be 
accepted as evidence with Section 75. And Mr S has provided paperwork he also received 
from B when he was depositing funds and believed he was trading with it. While we do hold 
evidence dated after the payments in question, I consider this evidence adds weight to 
Mr Ss testimony around the false promises, sales tactics and pressure used by B in the 
earlier stages of the scam  as these are shown to happen in the later exchanges.
As HSBC doesnt agree its liable to Mr S under Section 75, Ive first considered the Act. In 
summary, it sets out that there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
First, there doesnt seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor- 
creditor-supplier agreement under the Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that 
breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. There are three parties involved the scam, Mr S 
as the debtor, HSBC as the creditor and then B is the supplier.
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. Mr S 
first deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. And then he 
later deposited more funds to profitably trade on that account and withdraw them as he 
wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im 
satisfied there was a transaction for each of the deposits (the deposit-transactions) as 
defined by the Act. And Im satisfied the deposit-transactions did then finance the 
agreement, as it was these funds that enabled Mr S to obtain and use the investment 
account.
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction and be for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Mr Ss claim is that he was pressured and tricked into depositing the payments with 
B for its purpose of stealing his funds and pressuring/encouraging him to deposit more 
funds. And he was misled into depositing the funds as he believed he was genuinely trading, 
guaranteed a profit and would be able to access these funds. Mr S now says B is a scam 
firm and not a genuine investment broker. So his claim does relate to both misrepresentation 
by B as well as it breaching the contract he agreed.
Finally, the claim must not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit- 
transactions is the value of each deposit-transaction. And in this case all are within the 
required bracket.
Im satisfied that in this case Mr S deposited the funds as B made contractual promises to 
him about what would happen with these funds and what he would receive in exchange. So Section 75 does apply in this case to the three credit card deposit-transactions. Ive therefore 
considered whether Mr S has a valid claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
Mr S claims that B misrepresented themselves as legitimate enterprises when this was not in 
fact the case. For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not 
just a false statement of fact was made, but that this statement induced Mr S into entering 
into the agreement with B.
Ive reviewed Mr Ss testimony as well as the evidence hes been able to supply of his 
conversations with B. Alongside this, Ive looked at the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
register and the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) investor 
alerts portal. And wider information available now about B, such as articles and reviews of it 
which have been published since.
Mr Ss testimony is corroborated by both other complaints of this nature and by specific 
complaints our service has received. And there are now many articles and reviews setting 
out that people have been scammed by B in the same way Mr S has described to us. So I 
find his testimony both plausible and persuasive. I can also see that in July 2018 B said to 
Mr S funds would be sent money back when the account was in profit, but despite it showing 
a credit balance after this, Mr S wasnt ever able to withdraw. 
Ive also seen that B offered Mr S a £10,000 bonus to match a payment it wanted him to 
make. But in the account terms it states he would have to have an account balance of at 
least 50,000 times this figure to withdraw any bonuses (so in this case over a billion pounds). 
The emails dont mention how bonuses work in practice. And I note the terms also state that 
if the required threshold isnt met, Mr S is able to request an irregular withdrawal, which 
would just be what he's deposited minus any losses. But that B has no obligation to accept 
this. Its clear from Mr Ss testimony that this is not how the account or withdrawal process 
were explained to him. And Im persuaded this was misrepresented to Mr S, as I dont see 
why would anyone trade with a company that requires you to have made such an unrealistic 
profit to withdraw funds  and has no obligation to allow any withdrawal below this figure.
The FCA and IOSCO also have both published warnings about B. The FCA warning is from 
August 2018, so not something Mr S couldve seen at the time. But this sets out B isnt 
regulated to act in the UK, but has been doing so. In terms of IOSCO, theres a warning from 
2019. These warnings combined with Mr Ss testimony and the articles and reviews Ive 
seen lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being placed for Mr S, or 
whether in reality this was an elaborate scam simply designed to mislead people and steal 
their funds. It seems highly unlikely any legitimate firm would have so many negative reviews 
and warnings about it. And as Mr S was shown his account was trading and making profits, 
this is why he then deposited more funds. But this was not true and instead repeated 
misrepresentations by B.
Taking into account all of the above, I dont think B was operating a legitimate enterprise. 
This means that I think it made misrepresentations to Mr S  specifically that it was running a 
genuine enterprise through which he could have made an actual profit from the platform, that 
could be withdrawn. Im also satisfied that if Mr S had known and understood the truth, he 
wouldnt have deposited any money. So he was therefore induced into the contract on the 
basis of these misrepresentations.
Mr S paid a transaction fee on each of his payments. I consider this loss a direct 
consequence of him making this deposit-transaction, as it wouldnt have occurred had he not made the payment. And so I consider this should be included as a consequential loss of the 
misrepresentation.
Im satisfied B misrepresented itself to Mr S and this induced him into the contract and into 
making all the deposit-transactions he did, plus paying the associated transaction fee. This 
means that under a misrepresentation claim, Im satisfied Mr S is entitled to a 
reimbursement of all the funds he sent from his HSBC credit card due to these scams. I 
therefore dont consider I need to look at whether there was also a breach of contract by B in 
this case.
Debit card payments
Ive considered whether the second payment Mr S made to B from his joint account with 
Mrs S ought to have triggered, as the investigator has set out. And Im in agreement with him 
that it should have. The limited account information HSBC has provided shows the second 
payment being for over £7,000. And as hed already sent over £3,000 to B that same day, 
this meant hed sent over £10,000 to a new, international payee in a very short space of 
time.
HSBC has said it wouldnt have known this payment was going to binary options and that by 
the time the second payment was sent it wasnt a new payee anymore. But I dont agree. 
As all three debit card payments were made the same day, the payee was still new 
regardless of the trigger point being a second payment. And it is still unusual for someone 
to pay the same payee multiple large payments in short succession, after all why couldnt 
these be simply sent as one payment. Considering the value sent and the fact this was a 
newly added, international payee, I think HSBC shouldve blocked the second payment and 
contacted Mr S.
HSBC has picked up on the fact Mr S has said he really started to trust B after the first few 
days. But at the point the debit card payments were made, he had only been interacting with 
B for two weeks and hadnt received any large sums back  so I dont think they were made 
at a time when HSBC couldnt have stopped Mr S with the appropriate warnings. Afterall B 
had given Mr S no reason not to trust it, but HSBCs warning wouldve done that.
I say this because, as HSBC has pointed out, Mr S also told us he found B through a 
celebrity endorsement that was proven to be fake. If HSBC had properly intervened I expect 
it to have asked Mr S about what he was doing and why. The payment went direct to B so it 
could see who he was paying. And Im persuaded he wouldve explained about B and how 
he found it. HSBC, as the more experienced party, could then have given him a specific 
investment scam warning and also highlighted that not all these endorsements were 
genuine. I think Mr S then wouldve looked into B further and couldve found for himself the 
comments from the celebrity saying that the firms using his image were a scam. Im also 
satisfied he wouldve shared about the returns he was guaranteed, which shouldve been of 
concern to HSBC. And this wouldve meant he stopped investing with B.
As Mr S had already sent over £10,000, I think he wouldve come back to HSBC and asked 
for assistance, as he later did. I expect HSBC to have then explained to Mr S about the 
chargeback process, as hed then believe hed been scammed. And I can see that Mr S 
nearly had the required evidence he needed to put in a chargeback claim, despite not 
knowing what was fully required. So I think its most likely he wouldve been able to supply 
the evidence required by VISA in June 2018.
The issue I can see with what Mr S did proactively evidence is that his images dont show 
the when theyre taken. They show his available balance, the amount hes trying to withdraw 
and Ive seen emails which also evidence him asking B for this withdrawal. I can see hes always requesting to withdraw less than or equal to the available sum. But the issue is we 
cant see that the two things occurred at the same time. If HSBC had explained to him what 
was needed to meet the rules and submit a chargeback claim, I think its most likely he 
wouldve been able to supply this. It seems he had access to his account until at least late 
August 2018, but possibly even longer considering other emails we hold. And the account he 
held showed the information required by VISA to submit this kind of claim.
Im also satisfied Mr S wouldve had the funds from the first payment available, as he had 
only submitted it that day  and as per his testimony, which HSBC has itself relied on, he 
reported that the first few weeks were brilliant. The terms allow him to attempt a withdrawal 
for the amount hes paid in minus any losses  and Im satisfied hed have had this amount 
available in mid-June, as it doesnt seem hed suffered any great losses at this stage, hed 
been misled into thinking he was very profitably trading. 
I accept theres a possibility B wouldve defended this chargeback if it was made. But quite 
often scam merchants dont reply to these at all. And given the terms Mr S had agreed to, 
needing to make over a billion to be allowed to withdraw, if HSBC had pushed it to arbitration 
I think its most likely VISA wouldve found in Mr Ss favour. But as HSBC didnt give him this 
opportunity, he was denied this chance. Due to this I consider HSBC should put him in the 
position I consider it most likely he wouldve been in, so as if hed successfully made a 
chargeback claim for the first debit card payment. 
Since the view was issued our service has contacted Mr and Mrs S about the interest award. 
HSBC disagreed with awarding 8% simple interest as Mr S had pointed out the money used 
for this scam came from his ISA. I can see from his credit card statements that he did very 
quickly make repayments to the credit card to cover the investment amounts. And I accept 
his testimony that he moved this money from savings to spend. So on that basis I dont 
agree the interest rate applied is appropriate. This has been discussed with Mr and Mrs S 
and they have agreed that the ISA interest rate is whats fair in this case.
HSBC has also argued that for both accounts Mr S should have a deduction for his personal 
negligence, which it considers contributed to this scam. Ive considered whether I do think a 
deduction is fair in this case, but I dont think it is. 
There were no active warnings about B when Mr S first invested with it. And after completing 
an online search using a feature to show what would come up in a popular search engine for 
B in early June 2018, I havent found negative reviews or concerns. While HSBC has some 
doubts about how Mr S came across B, Ive seen a copy of the fake celebrity endorsement 
and it does list the newspaper Mr S recalls as somewhere they say they advertised. And 
HSBC hasnt provided any evidence this didnt in fact happen. I also havent seen anything 
to suggest Mr S ignored any obvious red flags before he invested the above funds, so I 
dont think he should have a deduction for contributory negligence.
Putting things right
Credit card
HSBC UK Bank Plc should reimburse Mr S all the payments he sent on his credit card and 
the associated transaction fees. I cant see he was charged interest on these payments as 
he repays this part of his balance in full almost immediately. Due to this, HSBC should award 
interest on these reimbursements at the ISA account rate from the respective dates of loss 
to the date it reimburses the funds.
Debit cardHSBC UK Bank Plc should reimburse Mr and Mrs S the amount sent to B from their joint 
account including all associated transaction fees, minus the payment received from B in July 
2018. HSBC should award them interest on these reimbursements at the ISA account rate, 
from the respective dates of loss to the date it reimburses the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman