DRN-2024026
The complaint
Mr V complains that Plus500 UK Limited would not allow him to set his own Buy price when 
trading Contracts for Differences (CFDs) on their platform and unfairly closed his account. 
What happened
Mr V held a CFD trading account with Plus500. He complains that they do not allow traders 
to set their own Buy prices when trading on their platform. He says the price doesnt go up 
one pip at a time but jumps several pips and so limits the Buy price the trader is able to 
purchase at. This restricts the profits (and losses) that the trader is able to achieve. Mr V 
doesnt think it is fair that he is unable to set his own price as he is able to do this on other 
trading platforms. He wants Plus500 to stop restricting the Buy price thats available and be 
fair in its dealings.
He also says he was mistreated by Plus500 when he made a complaint about their Buy 
prices. They closed his account after giving him 14 days notice. He says this was done to 
prevent him from pursuing his complaint against them. He wants his account to be re-
instated so he can continue trading.
Plus500 say they set limits in place to manage risk, particularly where the order rate is in 
excess of the variances set from the current platform rates. They say it also protects the 
trader from having their limit orders rejected especially when in a volatile market. They 
operate an execution only service and say traders are responsible for understanding each 
instrument they choose to trade in. They say their prices are clearly listed and it is the 
traders choice whether they wish to trade at the price and conditions that are being offered.
Plus500 say Mr V told them that he had suffered ill health and was in debt which he was still 
paying. They say these accounts are not right for anyone that cannot afford to lose their 
money and made a decision to close his account. 
Unhappy with this outcome Mr V brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator explained that his role in this complaint was to consider if Plus500 had done 
anything wrong. He concluded that Plus500 were allowed to set their own prices and didnt 
think they had done anything wrong. He said they were able to make their own commercial 
decision about who they allowed to trade with them and so didnt ask them to do any more. 
Mr V didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
The investigator correctly explained that it is beyond the remit of this service to prescribe 
how a firm should run its business or operate its services. Our remit mainly relates to 
addressing alleged wrongdoings by firms and any detriments or loss allegedly associated to 
a complaint. In Mr Vs case, there does not appear to be any loss incurred. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Vs strength of feelings at not being able to set his own Buy prices, I 
do not accept the suggestion that what Plus500 are doing is unfair. He is not in any way at a 
loss, deprived of his money or prevented from making money. They have been transparent 
in the way they operate. The available Buy price is visible and clear for him to see and he 
can make the choice whether he wishes to trade at that price. So, only he is ultimately 
responsible for the decision he takes to trade, or not to, at the given price. 
I also considered Plus500s decision to close Mr Vs trading account. Their decision to do 
this was based on him providing information, saying he had suffered ill health and was still in 
debt. They felt the account was no longer right for him given his circumstances. With this 
information, they made the decision not to allow him to continue trading on their platform. 
Although I do recognise the frustration he feels because he wishes to continue trading with 
them, it is not for this service to tell them who they should and should not do business with. 
They gave him the fourteen days notice of termination and are within their rights to make 
this commercial decision.
Overall, I consider that Plus500 are entitled to use the policies or processes they wish to 
use, as long as they are transparent, not in breach of relevant regulations and the terms of 
its service.  From what Ive seen they have been fair and reasonable, and I am not 
persuaded that any wrongdoing on Plus500s part has been established. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Plus500 UK limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman