DRN-2020440
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (VM) has registered a 
default against him in relation to a bank account he holds.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S made a transaction for some petrol using his VM account. The 
transaction took the account overdrawn by £79.93. This particular account didnt have an 
overdraft facility available, and so VM took action to recover the debt Mr S owed.
VM wrote to Mr S on a number of occasions and it also tried to contact him by phone. 
Because the outstanding amount wasnt paid by the date specified by VM, 14 January 2020, 
VM applied a default to the account and closed the account down.
In February 2020, Mr S contacted VM as he was in receipt of one of the letters. VM 
confirmed that the account was now showing as having defaulted. Mr S said he would pay 
the outstanding balance on the account  which he did later that day, and VM confirmed that 
the default would show as being settled on his credit file.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and so he made a complaint to VM. He thought that VM had 
applied the default too quickly. VM responded to say that it hadnt done anything wrong. And 
so Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. He said that it was in the terms and conditions of 
the account that VM could allow a transaction to go through that might make the account go 
overdrawn. He thought that Mr S was aware of this because he had done this in a previous 
month and then repaid the amount outstanding shortly after. Our investigator also thought 
that VM had acted inside of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO)s guidelines when 
registering the default. And so he said that VM hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He said that while he agreed that VM might have 
been acting within the guidance he didnt think it was fair for VM to apply the default in his 
particular circumstances. He said that he called VM once he had received the letter and 
made a payment on that same day. He has also said that it wasnt fair of VM to register a 
default for such a small amount of money at the earliest opportunity it could.
Because Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything available to me, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Firstly, Mr S has said that he didnt have an overdraft facility on his account and so VM 
shouldnt have allowed the transaction to go through. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of the account from the time of the transaction, it doesnt 
specifically say VM would allow a payment to go through if there werent enough funds in the 
account. But it does say You must have enough money in your account to make 
withdrawals and paymentsWe wont charge you if your balance goes below £0 but we 
will let credit reference agencies know. So, it may affect your ability to get credit in the future. 
You must pay money into your account to make sure your balance is no longer below £0 
immediately. If we allow a payment despite lack of funds, it doesnt mean well do it again in 
the future.
In addition to this, Mr Ss balance had gone below £0 in August 2019  he then brought the 
account back up to date quite soon after this. Based on what Ive said, I cant fairly say that it 
was unreasonable of VM to allow the transaction to go through. And I think Mr S was aware 
that while he didnt have an overdraft facility, sometimes VM would allow a transaction to 
take him below a £0 balance.
Mr S says that VM were too quick to apply the default for what he describes as a small 
amount. Ive thought about this point carefully. 
On 14 October 2019, Mr S made a transaction which put the account balance below zero by 
£79.93. As per the terms and conditions of the account, if the account goes below £0 the 
money must be repaid immediately. Because Mr S didnt repay the amount owed, VM took 
steps to try and recover the amount. 
Looking at the information VM has sent me, I can see that it tried to contact him on the below 
occasions:
23 October 2019  VM called Mr S, but he said he wasnt free to talk. It says it sent 
him a letter on the same day, but I havent seen a copy of this letter. 
30 October 2019 - VM wrote to Mr S again, to let him know about the outstanding 
balance. It requested that he repay the sum of £79.93 immediately. And it said that if 
he didnt do this then it may register a default against him.
13 November 2019  VM wrote to Mr S and issued a final notice  it also let him 
know it would be closing his account. The letter stated that it was the final opportunity 
for Mr S to bring his account up to date before it would pass his account to a debt 
collecting agency and apply a default to his account. The letter let Mr S know that it 
would need a payment by 14 January 2020. Notes on the account show that it also 
attempted to contact Mr S by phone but was unsuccessful.
5 December 2019  VM tried to contact Mr S by phone but wasnt successful.
30 December 2019  VM called Mr S, at this point he said he wasnt free to talk but 
would call back at another time.
31 December 2019  VM wrote to Mr S and sent a final reminder. It let Mr S know 
that the amount was still outstanding, and it would apply a default to the account if it 
wasnt brought up to date by 14 January 2020. 
22 January 2020  VM wrote to Mr S and let him know that it had applied a default to 
his account and that the account was now closed.
Mr S told VM that he didnt dispute that it had sent the letters, but he sometimes doesnt 
open his post and so he didnt see them. While this might be the case, I cant reasonably say 
VM did anything wrong  because Mr S chose not to open his post. In any event, Mr S was 
aware that VM was trying to contact him, as he had also received phone calls from it. One of the call notes provided by VM shows that it managed to get through to Mr S, but he was at 
work and so couldnt speak. VM didnt receive a call back from Mr S until after the account 
had gone into default. 
Looking at the above, I can see that VM made numerous attempts to try and get in touch 
with Mr S before it applied the default. And so Mr S should have been aware that VM were 
trying to recover the outstanding balance  and he should have been aware of what VM 
intended to do if the account wasnt brought back up to date by 14 January 2020. 
The ICO guidelines state that a business should register a default on an account where 
payment is more than three months in arrears. In this case, the amount owed was due 
immediately after the transaction took place, which was on 14 October 2019. It then 
registered a default on 22 January 2020. Which is just over three months. 
Based on this, I think that VM took adequate steps to try and get in touch with Mr S about 
the amount that was outstanding. And I cant agree with Mr S that the default was applied 
too soon. 
While I appreciate that the effects of a default can mean that it would make it more difficult 
for a person to get credit, I think VM made Mr S aware of this before it applied the default  it 
was stated in all of the letters it sent to him. VM has a duty to report information to the credit 
reference agencies that is accurate  and I think that it has done this. While I understand 
that Mr S thinks the circumstances surrounding his particular case mean that it was unfair of 
VM to apply the default, for the reasons Ive already commented on, Im afraid I cant agree 
with this. 
I understand that Mr S repaid the outstanding amount in February 2020, so his credit report 
should now show the default as being settled. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman