The complaint
Ms G complains about penalty charges shes incurred when withdrawing money from her 
ISA with TSB Bank plc. 
What happened
Ms G opened a two year fixed rate ISA in branch at TSB on 27 February 2019. Ms G says 
she told the bank advisor she wanted to use her savings towards the cost of a house 
purchase. Ms G says an application was started on the branchs computer but had to be 
continued on a tablet after some technical difficulties occurred. 
Ms G says the branch advisor told her the two year fixed rate ISA was right for her so 
continued with the application. The fixed rate ISA gives access to the funds held but charges 
180 days interest on any withdrawals. 
Ms G complained about being charged for making a withdrawal and TSB responded on 31 
July 2019. TSB said Ms G had agreed to the terms when opening the ISA and that she had 
a responsibility to read them. Ms G referred her complaint to our service and it was passed 
to an investigator. He thought TSB had dealt with Ms Gs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
do anything else. In response, Ms G said the account had been recommended to her in 
branch and that she wasnt told about a fee for making withdrawals. Ms G asked to appeal 
so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms G's point that the ISA was selected after discussing her options in branch. I 
don't doubt that TSB's advisor was involved with Ms G's selection. But I have to take both 
parties comments into account when deciding how to resolve a complaint. I think TSB has 
made some reasonable points. 
TSB's records indicate Ms G wanted to save £10,000 for retirement, not moving costs. But 
Ms G says she intended to use the funds in the first 12 months of the account opening for 
moving costs. I asked TSB to send me details of Ms G's ISA. TSB has sent us a statement 
that shows the account remained open past the first 12 months and that Ms G withrew 
£3,550 in that time, incurring interest penalties of around £29. The statements I've seen 
showed the majority of Ms G's savings remained in the ISA. So whilst I understand Ms G did 
intend to use the money she saved shortly after she opened her ISA, that doesn't appear to 
have happened. 
TSB paid £129 in interest on 27 February 2019. I've looked at the other accounts TSB had 
available in February 2018. I couldn't find any that would have given Ms G penalty free 
DRN-1502397access to her savings and also paid interest in line with the 1% fixed rate her ISA receives. 
So whilst Ms G was charged around £29 for making withdrawals in the first year her ISA was 
opened, that appears to have been offset by the interest she received. 
I appreciate Ms G opened this ISA in branch with the help of a member of staff. But I think 
it's reasonable for TSB to have expected her to have considered the product information as 
well. I've looked at the application process and can see that the penalty interest is clearly 
explained so I think Ms G could have raised her concerns at the time. Ms G did agree to the 
account terms. 
In response to the investigator Ms G said the branch advisor mentioned she would lose 
interest when making withdrawals. TSB applies a 180 day interest charge when Ms G makes 
a withdrawal. I appreciate Ms G didn't realise the branch advisor meant there was a specific 
charge, but I haven't been persuaded TSB misled her. In my view, there has been a genuine 
misunderstanding. 
I haven't been persuaded to uphold Ms G's complaint. I don't think TSB misled Ms G and I 
note she agreed to the ISA's terms. I'm satisfied TSB has dealt with this complaint fairly, so 
I'm not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman