DRN-3119588
The complaint
Mr M complains that Interestme Financial Planning Limited (Interestme)  then trading as 
Wise Pension Group  gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his personal pension plan 
(PPP) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest using a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM). Mr M explains that he suffered a financial loss as a result of being exposed 
to unsuitable investment choices.
What happened
Mr M met with Interestme in April 2016 where Interestme established that Mr M:
Was 37 years of age;
Didnt own his own home;
Was self-employed earning around £2,000 a month;
Had a personal pension plan worth around £19,000;
Had a deferred occupational scheme;
Wanted to retire at age 68.
Interestme sent Mr M a suitability report in June 2016, recommending that Mr M switch his 
PPP to a SIPP. Interestme assessed Mr M as having a medium attitude to risk. It 
recommended that Mr Ms investments be managed by a DFM.
Mr M followed Interestmes advice and the final transfer value from his PPP to the SIPP was 
£20,752.12. Which was then invested by the recommended DFM.
The DFM went into administration in 2017. 
Mr M complained, via a claims management company (CMC), that hed been given 
unsuitable advice. He said that he had no other savings, no capacity for loss, and was a low 
risk investor. Mr M explains that he had no investment experience.
Interestme didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought that the complaint should be 
upheld. She explained that:
The PPP offered numerous fund choices in 2016 many of which matched the 
medium attitude to risk that Interestme identified for Mr M;
Interestme didnt evidence that Mr Ms fund was likely to outperform the PPP 
following the switch;
The charges following the switch didnt meet the objective of switching to a contract 
with lower costs  that Interestme identified for Mr M;
There was insufficient evidence to suggest a specialist investment firm, like the DFM 
recommended, was suitable for Mr M.
A period of negotiation followed whereby Interestme made two offers of compensation to 
settle Mr Ms complaint. Both were rejected. And this case has been passed for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suitability of advice to switch
I will start by explaining why I agree with our investigator regarding the suitability of the 
advice Mr M was given to switch his PPP to a SIPP. 
There were various options that Interestme needed to consider in deciding what was most 
suitable for Mr M. These included:
- leaving his pension where it was, invested in the same or different funds;
- moving to a stakeholder pension or other PPP that may have offered lower charges;
- moving to a SIPP.
I cant see, from Interestmes suitability report that it gave any consideration to Mr M 
remaining where he was. Under Interestmes reason for supporting the switch to a SIPP, it 
said that his PPP had a limited range of internal and external fund choices. But the PPP 
provider have shown us that Mr M had access to around 350 different funds in 2016. Mr M 
had been invested in the same two funds since transferring funds to his PPP in 2009. Mr Ms 
PPP at that time was relatively modest  around £20,000. I dont think it was reasonable to 
lead Mr M to believe his investment options were being limited by remaining in his PPP. At 
the very least I would have expected to see that Interestme had looked at the fund choices 
to establish if there was something suitable where he was. But Ive seen no evidence that it 
did.
Interestme may have considered the option of a stakeholder pension. I say this because the 
summary of its suitability report said, my recommended pension is marginally more 
expensive than both your current pension and alternative choices such as stakeholder 
pensions. But it gave Mr M no further explanation than that. There was certainly no 
comparison to help Mr M understand how much more expensive the recommendation was 
than a stakeholder pension. Nor was there any explanation of what a stakeholder pension 
was.
Interestme needed to provide Mr M with enough information for him to be able to understand 
and decide whether to accept its recommendation. Interestme did provide Mr M with a 
comparison between his PPP and its recommendation. It explained that Mr Ms existing 
scheme had a projected value of £31,208 at age 68. And that, on a like-for-like basis a 
switch to its recommended SIPP had a projected value of £24,000. Which would have 
reflected the fact that the charges were so much higher for Interestmes recommendation. It 
shows that Mr Ms pension would have to perform significantly better after the transfer 
merely to make up for the additional charges. With no guarantee that it would.
Yet Interestme still recommended that the switch was suitable. For reasons of increased 
performance and better product flexibility. Interestme provided a further projection in the 
suitability report for its recommendation of £142,000. The report suggests that the 
calculation was based on a 5 year annualised performance figure of 11% a year for the 
Strand Capital portfolio. I dont think that this was a fair projection. It wasnt clearly explained and presented an 
unrealistic best case scenario that would undoubtedly have looked very attractive to Mr M. I 
say that because there was a further note, under Fund summary that said the Strand 
balanced portfolio had a 5 year annualised performance of 9.4%. But that Strand Capital 
Limited had only been running the portfolio for a year, so the back performance had been 
simulated. I dont think it was reasonable for Interestme to so confidently imply that this 
investment would outperform his PPP based on a single years worth of performance data. 
In contrast Strand Capital provided its illustration for Mr M on 10 June 2016 in a personalised 
illustration. It used projected growth rates of -0.5%, 2.5% and 5.5%. Which were the 
regulators nominal rates for lower, inter-mediate, and higher rates adjusted for inflation at an 
assumed 2.5%. These projections were also adjusted for the effect of charges. Which 
illustrated that the inter-mediate growth rate had the net effect of a -0.28% annual reduction 
in the value of Mr Ms pension in real terms. It gave no inflated projection along the lines of 
the one Interestme had given Mr M in its suitability report.
Although it isnt referred to as a reason to support the recommendation in its suitability 
report, Interestme have said Mr M had wanted to access his benefits flexibly. And said that 
wouldnt have been available under the PPP. But Interestme were aware that Mr M was still 
around 30 years from being able to retire. So a long way from really knowing how he would 
eventually want to take any benefits from his pension. In Mr Ms position in 2016, there was 
no need to rush into a pension switch based on a need for flexibility in taking benefits so far 
in the future. So I dont think the possible need for flexibility provided reasonable justification 
to recommend the switch that Interestme did.
In deciding whether a SIPP was suitable Id expect Interestme to have been considering the 
fund size, the fees, and Mr Ms investment experience and needs.
Prior to the advice, the charge on Mr Ms PPP was an annual charge of 0.8% of the fund 
value. This compared to the charges following Interestmes recommendation of:
- Annual fund charge of 0.84%
- Annual tax wrapper charge of £114
- Annual adviser charge of 0.75%
- Annual platform administration charge of 0.42%
SIPPs are not always suitable for a fund as small as Mr Ms. The impact of charges is quite 
significant as SIPPs can be a more expensive option, as was the case here. One of Mr Ms 
objectives said  would be happy to look at the possibility of switching your pension to a 
contract with lower charges. Switching to this SIPP didnt satisfy this objective. And Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr M had previous investing experience or any desire to actively 
manage the way his pension funds were invested. So any move to a SIPP would require 
some form of additional expense in ongoing advice or investment management that he didnt 
otherwise need. Overall, the recommendation to transfer to a SIPP wasnt in Mr Ms best 
interests. 
Liability of Interestme for Mr Ms losses
The suitability report identified that Mr M hadnt had a review for a while and wanted to see 
how his pension was performing. So I dont think that Mr M would have switched to a SIPP 
but for Interestmes recommendation. For the reasons Ive given, I think that it was 
unsuitable for Mr M to switch to the SIPP at all. Had Interestme provided suitable advice, the 
investment into Strand Capital wouldnt have been possible.In addition, the fact that Mr Ms SIPP was invested in Strand Capital was because 
Interestme recommended it. This was a discretionary fund manager service, although I 
havent seen that Interestme explained that to Mr M in its recommendation. 
I think that the cost associated with Interestmes recommendation made this unsuitable. 
Mr M ended up paying an ongoing adviser charge to Interestme for a service  which 
included annual valuations and the option to review investments  as well as an ongoing 
charge to Strand Capital for its service. Which I dont think represented value for money for 
Mr M.
Interestme have said that the subsequent investment choices in Mr Ms SIPP were made by 
Strand Capital, suggesting that should limit Interestmes liability for any losses that Mr M 
suffered. Interestme have been asked to provide any evidence of the due diligence that they 
carried out into Strand Capital or the types of investments that Mr M would be put into. They 
provided a risk mapping assessment document for Strand Capital that isnt dated. It shows 
that the balanced portfolio would involve a mix of around 47% international bonds, 10% 
global high yield bonds, and the remainder in UK and North American equities. A strategy 
that would represent an appropriate balanced risk if followed. But Interestme havent 
provided any evidence that they established whether Strand Capital was making 
investments in line with this or not before they recommended it to Mr M.
So for all of the reasons Ive given, I think that Interestme are responsible for all of the losses 
that Mr M suffered as a result of switching from his PPP to the SIPP.
Putting things right
Interestme have already made an offer to Mr M based on a loss calculation that it said was 
based on our method. But it chose to disregard certain elements of the proposed redress 
based on its view that Mr M should seek redress from the FSCS for Strand Capitals 
mistakes. For the avoidance of any further doubt, that is not a fair way to put Mr M back into 
the position hed have been in if Interestme hadnt given him the unsuitable advice. But for 
its advice Mr M wouldnt have been in the SIPP or invested in the Strand Capital balanced 
portfolio. So Interestme bear responsibility for Mr Ms full losses.
There has also been disagreement between Interestme and Mr M over the valuation of 
certain funds that are still held in Mr Ms SIPP. Mr M, via his CMC, has argued that some of 
the funds that Mr Ms SIPP has ended up invested in are illiquid. Whilst Interestme argue 
that is not the case. 
My aim is to return Mr M to the position hed have been in but for the actions of Interestme. 
This is complicated where an investment may be illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold 
on the open market), as its value cant be determined. Whilst that is disputed, I think on 
balance its more likely than not to be the case here. Interestme have referred to the 
investments as being suspended on their respective stock markets. And whilst that may 
change, I am unconvinced that Mr M can readily dispose of those assets. Either way, the 
below explained method of redress directs Interestme to try to take ownership of the assets 
in question in the first instance. So if it doesnt agree that they are, or will remain, illiquid it 
will be able to try to dispose of those assets.
What must Interestme do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Interestme must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Interestme should add interest as set out below:
Interestme should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Interestme is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £200 for the distress caused through the uncertainty he has experienced 
regarding the value and security of his pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Interestme deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Interestme should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
The Wise 
SIPPSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Interestme should take ownership of any assets that are illiquid, at the date of my final 
decision, by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount 
Interestme pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Interestme is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Interestme may require that Mr M provides 
an undertaking to pay Interestme any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Interestme will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
The Wise SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for The Wise SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Interestme taking over the 
illiquid assets, or this is something that Mr M can discuss with the provider directly. But I 
dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Interestme 
is unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
it pays Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Wise SIPP to be closed.
Why is above benchmark suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr 
M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. My decision is that INTERESTME FINANCIAL PLANNING 
LIMITED should pay the amount calculated using the method Ive set out above.
INTERESTME FINANCIAL PLANNING LIMITED should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 Gary Lane
Ombudsman