DRN-1248458
 
The complaint
Mr R says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr R bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I'll explain why:
Mr R says when he took out the store card it wasn't made clear that the PPI was 
optional. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr 
R and the sales person when the store card was taken out. Im also mindful that 
these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what 
happened can fade over time. But I've noted that Mr R's application form was 
completed to show that he wanted the PPI. So without any other evidence to support 
what Mr R has told me, I don't think I can safely say that FICL didn't make him aware 
that he had a choice about buying the PPI. 
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. This means it didnt have to ask about any other means he might have had to 
make his repayments if he couldnt work.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr R would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 
Mr R has mentioned that he became self-employed some time after he bought the policy. 
But as he was employed when the policy was sold, any exclusion for self-employed people 
wouldn't have affected him at that point. So Mr R's subsequent self-employment doesn't 
change my overall conclusions about the complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman