DRN-4140195
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim under his car 
insurance policy. Mr N is represented in his complaint, but for ease Ill refer to him 
throughout. When I mention Aviva I also mean its repairers and suppliers.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr Ns home was broken into and the burglars stole a set of keys for his car. 
They were disturbed during the burglary and left without taking it. 
Mr N reported the incident to Aviva which then took his car into secure storage. Aviva then 
took his car to an approved repairer for the door and ignition locks to be changed.
Aviva couldnt obtain the parts to replace the locks. After waiting for parts for five months, 
Aviva offered to buy the car from him and it offered £3,950. It also said he could continue to 
wait for the parts to arrive, or it would offer him cash in lieu of the repairs.
Mr N says hes incurred costs for taxis and public transport and hes had to pay for 
babysitters to look after his family. He has lost hundreds of pounds of income as hes self-
employed.
He asked that Aviva pay £6,000 to buy the car from him, which he says would be the value 
of it in a private sale.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it and upheld it in part. He said he thought Avivas offer for the 
car was fair. He also said Aviva should pay an additional £100 compensation for mistakes it 
had made during the claim, making a total of £300.
Aviva agreed with the view, but Mr N didnt. He asks for a figure near £5,100 for his car and 
all the costs hes incurred on top. So, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable.
Having read the file of evidence Ive been provided, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint in part. 
But its important that I say Im not upholding the main part of his complaint about the cars 
value. Ill explain why.
Ive read about what happened in the burglary which must have been a shocking experience 
for him and his family.
Avivas initial response was to recover his car and store it. I can see that there was a delay 
taking it to the repairer and I can also see Aviva offered Mr N £200 for this initial 
inconvenience, which Mr N declined. 
Mr Ns car is about 17 years old and I hope he wont mind me saying that its a fairly rare 
model.
Aviva wasnt able to source replacement locks and keys for it. Aviva said this was due to the 
age of the car and disruption in the manufacturers supply chain. I can see it wasnt able to 
work around the problem as locksmiths werent able to cut keys made by the particular 
manufacturer. It seems to me that Aviva tried to resolve the situation but it wasnt able to 
obtain the necessary parts or solve it in any other way. I dont think it would be fair of me to 
say Aviva has acted unfairly in how it tried to move the repairs forward.
Because of the problems getting parts, Aviva took a commercial decision and offered to buy 
the car from Mr N in lieu of repairing it. It also offered Mr N that he could opt to take the car 
back with cash in lieu of repairs, but as it hadnt been able to change the locks and the 
burglars had the keys and knew where Mr N lived, it wouldnt be able to cover the car for 
theft.
It later said it should have made the various offers to Mr N earlier in the claims process, and 
it offered him £200 compensation for this. Mr N didnt accept this offer.
Mr N accepted that Aviva could buy the car, but he didnt agree with Avivas valuation of 
£3,950. He said his car was in much better condition than average and he sent this service 
details of money hes spent on it in the last couple of years. Mr N has said that he thinks his 
car would be worth about £6,000 in a private sale, and he later said hed accept a figure 
about £5,100. He provided evidence to Aviva of other vehicles, but Aviva said they were for 
newer models with lower mileage.
This service has an established approach to vehicle valuations. I can see from its evidence 
that Aviva has followed that approach when its valued Mr Ns car.
Ive also looked at the evidence Mr N has provided about the condition of his car and I agree 
hes spent a substantial amount on it. But Ive also thought about the age of the car and the 
mileage it has covered. Ive said before that its a fairly rare type, and at the mileage itd 
covered I think its fair to say that Mr Ns care of it was more maintaining it rather than adding 
value. I say this because I can see invoices for repairing wheels, fixing rust, part of the 
transmission and re-finishing the upholstery, which are typically due more to age, mileage 
and use.
I dont doubt that Mr N cares a great deal about his car, but that cant form part of my 
considerations as to whether Aviva has made a fair offer about its market value.
Because the car is quite rare and at the upper end of the age range on the trade guides, Im 
not able to access the full range of trade guide values. I can see the following values as at 
the date the key was stolen:
Company A - £4,440
Company B - £4,441
Company C - £3,950I can also see that Aviva has provided evidence that similar cars have asking prices in 2022 
below this figure. And thats their asking price rather than the price achieved in the sale, 
which is usually lower. 
Aviva made a deduction from its assessed value because of some damage to the front 
bumper. The deduction was £226, which is much lower than the cost assessed to repair it 
(which was nearly £700).
I can see Mr N has sent a video mainly focusing on the rear bumper, which isnt damaged, 
and I can see in a brief glimpse in the video that the front numberplate seems to be 
misaligned. I can see from Avivas photos that there is some damage around this 
misalignment. Mr N said the bumper must have been damaged while it was in Avivas care, 
but I havent seen evidence of this.
Taking everything into account, I think Avivas offer to buy the car for £3,950 is fair and 
reasonable. Ive not seen evidence that the car would be worth a figure more than the 
amount Aviva has offered given the damage to the front bumper and the likely costs of 
repairing it. 
Its my understanding that Mr N also had access to two other vehicles during this time. Hes 
said that one of them wasnt suitable for family use as it was a commercial type, and the 
other one was too small for his whole family. I can also see that he told Aviva that the car 
was mainly used at weekends.
Its important that I say Mr N hadnt chosen the option of having a courtesy car when hed 
bought his policy, so he wasnt entitled to get one when his car had been recovered to a 
repairer. Ive heard Mr N refer to this as Aviva letting him down, but it was his choice not to 
buy that option when he took out the policy.
Taking everything into account, I can appreciate Mr Ns frustration that this claim and 
complaint isnt resolved yet. But I also think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably during the 
claims process. Its offered compensation for its mistakes, which I understand Mr N has 
rejected, and its tried various options to either fix the car or provide Mr N with a solution 
thats acceptable to him, and Mr N hasnt accepted those options.
Ive thought about this services guidelines on compensation and I dont think Avivas offer is 
sufficient. I think it should pay an additional £100 on top of the £200 its already offered for 
Mr Ns distress and inconvenience. But I dont think it needs to increase its offer of valuation 
for Mr Ns car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr N a total of £300 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman