DRN-4419885
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain about misleading advice they were given by National Westminster 
Bank Plc about their remortgage. They say if theyd been given the correct advice sooner 
about the effect of a two-part mortgage, theyd have secured a better rate elsewhere.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Z said they got in touch with NatWest about remortgaging in early August 2022. 
They had two separate parts to their mortgage, one of which was ending on 31 December 
2022, and the other on 30 April 2023. Mr and Mrs Z said NatWest told them they could 
reserve a rate for the first part of their mortgage online right away, but they couldnt reserve 
a rate for the second part until October. Or they could pay the Early Repayment Charges 
(ERCs) on both parts right away, and take out a new rate now.
Mr Z said he went online, and reserved a rate of 3.39% for the first part of his mortgage,
which was due to start in January. He also booked the first available appointment with a
NatWest mortgage advisor for 28 September.
Mr Z said when he eventually spoke to the advisor, they told him that because the first part
of his mortgage had a switch in progress, he couldnt fix any rate for the second part. He
would have to wait until the first switch was entirely completed, in January, before he could
even reserve a rate for the second part. NatWest said this was an unfortunate limitation on
its systems, it cant allow two mortgage applications to be running at the same time  even
when those applications are to fix new rates on two parts of the same existing mortgage.
Mr Z said he initially thought he might pay the ERC for both parts of his mortgage, so he
could secure the rate NatWest was offering then. But when he called back, he found that the
advisor hed spoken to was out of the office for a few days, and no one else could help him.
Mr Z said he was worried rates would go up again, so he sought a mortgage elsewhere.
Mr Z said he was quickly able to secure a mortgage with a different lender, which started in
early January. That meant he only had to pay the ERC on one part of his mortgage. Mr Z
said hed got a rate of 4.43%, fixed for 5 years, running until 30 November 2027. But Mr Z
said if hed got the right advice from NatWest sooner, he could have got a much lower rate.
Mr Z said NatWest had paid £400 for inconvenience and £100 for the delay in processing a 
reply to his complaint. Mr Z said he appreciated that, but hed still like us to look into this for 
him, because he thought the delay in getting the right advice from NatWest might cost him 
over £7,000 more in total, spread over the five years his rate was fixed.
NatWest said it had booked Mr Z the first available appointment with an advisor, when he
called in early August. It said it had confirmed Mr Z could reserve a rate for the first part of
his mortgage right away, then reserve a rate for the second part at the end of October 2022,
six months before the deal on that part ended. NatWest said it could see Mr Z did then
reserve the rate for the first part, so it thought hed intended to treat the two parts of the
mortgage separately.
NatWest said that on Mr Zs booked appointment, its mortgage advisor then explained that
Mr Z couldnt book a rate for the second part of his mortgage until early January, after the
first part had completed. And NatWest had recently made a change to the deal-breaking
process, which meant that he would have to break both parts of his mortgage (paying the
ERC on both parts) if he wanted to book a new rate right away.
NatWest said it was sorry Mr Z had decided to move this mortgage elsewhere. And it said it
was unfortunate that NatWest had changed its deal-breaking arrangements after Mr Z spoke
to it in early August, and before he had his advisor appointment in late September, but
NatWest said it is entitled to change these processes.
NatWest said it accepted its mortgage centre agent could have done more in explaining the
potential system limitations, given Mr Zs intended plans. The agent didnt explain that
applying online for one part would delay a second application. So NatWest paid Mr Z £400
for the inconvenience, and £100 for a delayed reply to his complaint.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He thought if Mr Z had been
properly advised in August, hed have decided then to break the deal on both the parts of his
mortgage, and take the rate NatWest had available at the time. So he said NatWest should
pay Mr and Mrs Z the difference in the payments under the rate they were paying now, and
the rate they could have secured with NatWest in August.
NatWest didnt agree. It said Mr and Mrs Z couldnt have got the NatWest rate in August,
because they would have needed to have an appointment with an advisor before they could
break out of their existing mortgage deal and take a new deal with NatWest. So they would
always have had to wait until the next available appointment, which was at the end of
September, and the best rate they could have secured would be the one available then.
And NatWest said that meant it thought the issue of the system limitation (allowing only one
application at any one time) not being explained on 6 August was really a red herring.
Our investigator then changed his mind, and said NatWest should pay the difference
between the payments under Mr and Mrs Zs current rate, and the rate they could have
secured in September.
NatWest still didnt agree. It said it had listened to all the calls, and didnt think Mr Z had
been wrongly advised. It thought it was unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Z had two separate
products on their mortgage each with different expiry dates, and this caused complications in
what they were trying to achieve. But NatWest said that wasnt a bank error. It said Mr and
Mrs Z had just chosen to go elsewhere.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. And I 
then reached my provisional decision on this case.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I do think Mr Z was misadvised on the first call he had with NatWest. He was clear that 
he had two parts to his mortgage, which were both ending soon, but not at the same 
time. The end dates for each were confirmed by the advisor. During the discussion, Mr Z 
said he was thinking of booking a new rate for the first part of the mortgage now, then 
reserving a rate for the second part on 30 October. The advisor confirmed this was 
possible, which it wasnt, because of the system limitations with NatWest.
The advisor should have told Mr Z that he could reserve a new rate now for the first part 
of his mortgage, but hed then need to wait until the start of January before he could 
reserve a new rate for the second part. Once hed started an application to change the 
rate for part one of his mortgage, NatWests system limitation meant he would have to 
wait for that to complete, at the end of December, before he could do anything to make 
changes to the second part, including reserving any rate.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont agree with NatWest that the wrong advice on the 
issue of its system limitation on this call was a red herring. Mr Zs plans at this time do 
seem to me to have been based on the assumption that his applications for new rates 
on these two parts of his mortgage could overlap. And NatWest says they cant.
Having listened to this call, I think that Mr Z was very much alive to the likelihood of 
rates increasing again, and potentially quite substantially. So I think if hed been properly 
advised about NatWests system limitation at this point, he would also have been 
advised he could break out of both of his existing mortgage deals, paying the relevant 
ERCs, but hed need an appointment with an advisor to do that, and he couldnt have 
that appointment until the end of September.
If Mr Z had been properly advised, then following this, I think its likely that Mr Z would 
have done exactly what he later did  contacted a different lender, and secured a rate 
for 4 January, so he only needed to pay an ERC on one part of the two-part mortgage 
with NatWest. But, as Mr Z said, hed have then secured a lower rate.
Ive contacted the lender that Mr and Mrs Z successfully applied to at the start of 
October. I think its reasonable to assume that any earlier application by Mr and Mrs Z 
with this lender, in August 2022, would also have been successful.
That lender has confirmed that Mr Z could have reserved a rate to remortgage on 4 
January, as early as 6 August. But if he had contacted it then, Mr Z would have been 
able to secure a rate of 3.41% over five years. Mr and Mrs Z are now paying 4.43%.
For that reason, I think that NatWest should work out the difference between the  
payments Mr and Mrs Z will make on their current borrowing, fixed at 4.43% until 30 
November 2027, and the payments they would have made, on a rate of 3.41%, fixed 
until the same date. NatWest should then pay Mr and Mrs Z this amount, as a lump 
sum, minus the amount of £400 which it has already paid Mr and Mrs Z for this 
complaint.
I think its reasonable to allow NatWest to deduct from this lump sum, the payment it has
already made for the upset that having a higher rate caused Mr and Mrs Z, now that 
they are going to be reimbursed the extra costs of that rate. But I dont think NatWest can also deduct the payment of £100 it made because it delayed in responding to Mr 
and Mrs Zs complaint.
I currently think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest responded to ask for information on the mortgage Mr and Mrs Z took out when they 
redeemed their mortgage with NatWest. Our investigator sent information to NatWest, and it 
replied to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr Z also responded, to say he agreed too, and he appreciated the investigation our service 
had carried out.  
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must work out the total difference 
between the payments Mr and Mrs Z will make on their current borrowing, fixed at 4.43% 
until 30 November 2027, and the payments they would have made instead, on a rate of 
3.41%, fixed until the same date. National Westminster Bank Plc must then pay Mr and Mrs 
Z this amount, as a lump sum, minus the amount of £400 which it has already paid Mr and 
Mrs Z for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman