DRN-2452915
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) because there was a duplicate 
pending transaction on his current account. He is also unhappy with the service he received 
when he raised the query. 
What happened
On 6 October 2020 Mr F made a purchase using a contactless payment service on his 
phone. However, the entries on his Barclays current account showed the card payment and 
then a pending transaction for the same payment.  
Mr F has told us he needed to make a purchase on 7 October 2020 but the payment was 
declined because the pending transaction reduced his available balance. Mr F contacted 
Barclays to query this on the same day. He had three phone calls with them and went to visit 
the branch. The pending transaction was reversed during the second call and a complaint 
was logged.  
Barclays issued their final response to the complaint on 21 October 2020. They upheld the 
complaint accepting there had been a banking error and that they couldve provided a better 
service when handling the matter. Barclays apologised and credited Mr Fs account with 
£75. 
Mr F remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt Barclays credit of 
£75 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and didnt ask them to do anything 
further. Barclays accepted this but Mr F didnt. Therefore, the case has passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F says he made two separate complaints and received two references from Barclays. 
This was in respect of the initial banking error and then their service. I can see Barclays 
addressed both issues in their final response. Im satisfied that the issues are linked because 
they both arise from the same error. Therefore, its appropriate to deal with them together.  
Barclays have accepted there was a banking error which effected Mr Fs available balance. 
The error meant that it seemed the same card payment had been taken twice. I can see that 
it impacted Mr Fs available balance and he had a card payment declined due to insufficient 
funds. Considering this, Id expect to see Barclays had acted promptly to rectify the error. 
Ive listened to the initial call on 7 October 2020 and note the issue was not resolved. The 
call handler offered a temporary refund, but this was not accepted by Mr F. He wanted the 
pending transaction cancelled and felt the error was on Barclays side. The call handler made 
the decision to end the call.
Ive also listened to the second call where Mr F logged a complaint. This call took place 
whilst he was waiting to go into branch. The call handler reversed the pending transaction. 
This call handler also later called Mr F and confirmed that the issue was as a result of a 
banking error. 
Having reviewed this, I appreciate the banking error wasnt initially identified or resolved. I 
can understand why this was frustrating for Mr F and Barclays shouldve done more to 
resolve the issue from the outset. 
Putting things right 
Mr F experienced trouble and upset as a result of the banking error and how it was handled 
by Barclays. Mr F had difficulty making the payment as his transaction was declined. He also 
spent time resolving the matter. I have also considered how Mr F has described the impact 
to his working day. I understand how strongly Mr F feels about this and Ive thought about 
everything hes said carefully. 
 
However, Barclays promptly rectified the error and have credited Mr F with £50 to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience. They also credited him £25 for the cost of the trip to branch. 
This is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything further. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr F but the pending transaction 
was reversed on the same day and Mr F was able to make the payment. 
My final decision
To settle the complaint Barclays Bank UK PLC have issued Mr F with credit of £75. In my 
view this is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I wont be asking them to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman