DRN-4166984
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has been unable to provide evidence to show an 
accurate balance of an old account. 
What happened
Mr I had an account with another business that was subsequently taken over by HSBC. Mr I 
has provided a withdrawal slip that shows he took out £1,000 on 15 November 2000. Mr I 
has explained that he later left the UK and moved abroad. 
Last year, Mr I contacted HSBC to find out what had happened to his account and the 
remaining funds. HSBC investigated and advised Mr Is account had £8.25 when it was 
closed in 2004. Barclays gave instructions setting out how Mr I could retrieve the £8.25 by 
visiting a branch. 
Mr I referred the matter to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
thought HSBC had made reasonable efforts to try and trace Mr Is funds and said its not 
obliged to retain documents like statements indefinitely. As a result, there was little 
information available to show how the final balance of £8.25 had been reached. 
Mr I asked to appeal and said theyd have expected HSBC to retain account information like 
statements from the time. As Mr I asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr I finds the lack of statement evidence frustrating. But banks arent 
required to retain information indefinitely and are obliged to delete data historic data in 
certain circumstances. Here, HSBC has provided details of its information retention policy to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. I cant share the specifics of HSBCs data retention 
policies as theyre commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied HSBC isnt required to retain 
detailed account statements from 2000, around the last time Mr I used his account. 
That means the information available to us is limited. What we do have is a copy of Mr Is 
withdrawal slip which confirms he took out £1,000 in November 2000. The withdrawal slip 
gives Mr Is sort code and account number. HSBC has been able to supply is a screen print 
from its systems that shows Mr Is account was closed on 9 March 2004 and that £8.25 was 
placed into a holding account. 
Where information is incomplete or disputed, Ill base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider to be most likely based on all the available information 
and evidence. Here, HSBC has provided systems evidence that shows Mr Is account was 
closed in March 2004 and that it had a balance of £8.25 at that time. So I think its more 
likely than not that Mr Is account had a balance of £8.25 on 9 March 2004 when it was 
closed. 
In response to the investigator, Mr I mentioned timescales for dormant accounts. Id like to 
explain that businesses are free to review accounts to assess whether theyre dormant or 
not. If an account is closed as being dormant, the funds are then placed into a holding 
account so the customer can reclaim them at a later date. If the money isnt ultimately 
claimed it can be paid into a fund. But here, Mr Is money remained in HSBCs holding 
account until last year when it provided instructions on how to retrieve it. If he hasnt done so 
already, I leave it to Mr I to decide whether he wishes to reclaim his funds in line with 
HSBCs instructions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but Im satisfied HSBC has correctly told him it doesnt have to 
retain information like account statements indefinitely. Im satisfied HSBC doesnt have 
statements going back to either 2000 or the point it closed Mr Is account. Im also satisfied, 
on balance, that the systems evidence provided by HSBC shows Mr Is account had a 
balance of £8.25 when it was closed in March 2004. Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but as Im 
satisfied HSBC has dealt with his enquiries fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman