DRN-1686241
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. Hes unhappy 
about the way a pension transfer was handled.
What happened
Mr M held a Personal Pension with Prudential. He was approaching retirement and met with 
an adviser initially in January 2019, with a final meeting on 4 April 2019. The retirement date 
on his pension was 1 April 2019.
After the final meeting he was provided with a suitability report. This included a pension 
valuation of just under £312,000. The report explained that this valuation was correct at 25 
January 2019 and wasnt guaranteed.
Mr M agreed charges with Prudential and a transfer value net of charges was quoted which 
was just over £305,000. He went ahead with the transfer. He then received a sum into his 
retirement account which was similar to the net sum he expected. But after making further 
enquiry, he discovered that the sum transferred was actually less than he expected by over 
£6,000 as charges had not been deducted.
Mr M complained to Prudential. It investigated his complaint but didnt uphold it. It explained 
that there had been a reduction in the fund value due to annual bonuses that were applied 
from 1 April 2019. The final bonus replaced the interim bonus that had been included in the 
fund value in January 2019. The advice had explained that the value wasnt guaranteed.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reconsidered. Prudential reviewed the 
complaint and then decided that it should be upheld in part. It accepted that there had been 
some failings in the way it had handled the original complaint. It also explained that there 
had been a system error which meant that at the time of the final meeting on 4 April 2019 the 
correct fund value was not shown. This was because Mr Ms retirement date was 1 April 
2019 and the system would not be updated to show the correct value until his retirement 
date was deferred. This didnt take place until 11 April. So the valuations visible to the 
adviser between 1 April and 11 April would have been the value from March 2019 and 
wouldnt take into account the impact of the annual bonus.
Prudential offered £200 for the trouble and upset its errors may have caused.
Mr M didnt accept and referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint. He explained that he didnt think Mr M had 
suffered any direct financial loss. He had received the correct transfer value although it was 
less than he expected. However, he didnt feel that the offer of £200 adequately reflected the 
trouble and upset caused. He recommended that Prudential increase the offer by £150 but it 
didnt agree. It said its offer was fair in all the circumstances.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator. I uphold this complaint and I think the proposed award of £350 
is fair in all the circumstances.
I can understand why Mr M feels that his losses are much greater than this. But I agree that 
he has not actually lost the difference between the actual transfer value and the amount he 
expected. The actual transfer value he received was the correct value when the transfer took 
place. That was the amount that was correctly due to him. 
I dont think Mr M would have made a different decision about the transfer if he had been 
told the correct value on 4 April 2019. He would no doubt have been disappointed, but I think 
he would have gone ahead and I think he would have agreed the same fee which was a 
percentage of the transfer value.
So I think Mr M has suffered a loss of expectation, but not an actual loss.
Prudential accepts that Mr Ms expectations were raised by a systematic error which meant 
that an old and inaccurate valuation was showing on its systems after 1 April 2019. 
Prudential has also accepted that Mr Ms original complaint was not handled as well as it 
should have been.
Prudential offered £200 for trouble and upset. I think an award of £350 is more appropriate. 
Mr M was led to expect a transfer value which would have been over £6,000 higher. Whilst 
he had been told that the value wasnt guaranteed, the fact is that but for a system error he 
would have known the correct value and been in a position to make a fully informed 
decision. He would still have had some disappointment when he was told of the lower value, 
and I think he would probably have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. However, his 
disappointment can only have been exacerbated by finding out about his loss in the way 
that he did and being taken by surprise. He wasnt told about it, and it was only confirmed 
after he made his own enquiry.
Additionally, Prudential accepts that it didnt handle his original complaint in line with its 
normal processes, and accepts that its initial decision was incorrect. I think these factors can 
only have added to Mr Ms frustration. It seems that it was only his persistence to have his 
complaint reviewed that led to a full explanation being provided, the system error being 
discovered, and a correct outcome being reached.
Im satisfied that in these circumstances an award of £350 is fair.
 
 
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. It must pay Mr M 
£350 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman