DRN-4336902
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours 
Student Loans (HSL) has administered her student loans. 
What happened
HSL administers two mortgage style student loans that Miss W had taken out via the Student 
Loans Company (SLC). 
Miss W has deferred repayment of the loans several times, with the last period of deferment 
ending in March 2022. HSL says that SLC sent Miss W a deferment application form (DAF) 
in January 2022 and February 2022.
HSL says that it wrote to Miss W in March 2022 to confirm that her deferment period would 
end on 24 March 2022 and that at this point, she would need to start making her monthly 
loan repayments.
HSL says that it didnt hear from Miss W until August 2022 when she gave some information 
about her health and said her accountant would prepare the necessary paperwork for the 
deferment application. HSL asked SLC to send Miss W a replacement DAF.
Miss W returned the completed DAF in late February 2023 and HSL forwarded it to SLC 
towards the end of March 2023. SLC marked the DAF as incomplete and asked Miss W for 
evidence of her how she was currently supporting herself. HSL advised Miss W to provide a 
third party support letter to SLC.
Miss W is unhappy that she was asked to keep resending documentation to defer repayment 
of her student loans before being told shed run out of time and would need to restart the 
process.
Miss W thinks that HSL doesnt want to defer her student loans. She wants to understand 
why HSL wants her to restart the process of providing information after shes already 
supplied everything theyve asked for. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint be upheld. He didnt think HSL 
delayed Miss Ws deferment application as its records indicated that HSL had made several 
attempts to follow up with her. 
Our investigator noted that although Miss Ws DAF was received by HSL on 24 February 
2023, it didnt forward the DAF to SLC until 20 March 2023. But he thought HSLs offer to 
backdate deferment by a month in recognition of the delay was fair. 
Our investigator explained that SLC handles deferment applications so he couldnt hold HSL 
responsible for SLCs information requirements. Our investigator thought it was unfortunate 
that Miss W would now need to complete a new DAF but this was fair as almost a year had 
passed since the DAF was first sent out.
Miss W was unhappy with the investigation outcome. She thought our investigator had 
ignored most of the points shed made. Miss W said she had never dealt with the SLC and 
HSL as two different entities and had always sent information to the email address she was 
given.  
Our investigator sent Miss W a second view which expanded on the first investigation 
outcome. Miss W responded to say that January 2023 was the earliest she could get an 
accountant to do her books and that shed made this clear to HSL. Miss W asked for further 
details of HSLs attempts to contact her before she got in touch in August 2022. 
Miss W is unhappy that she was only asked for a letter from her partner to prove she didnt 
have an income in June 2023 and not when she originally tried to defer. Miss W says that 
after shed supplied the letter from her partner, she was asked to provide another one.
Miss W says HSL told her to email documents to SLC  which she did  only to be told 
weeks later that SLC didnt accept forms in this way.
Miss W asks how she can be told that time for deferment has run out despite continually 
providing everything shed been asked to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The evidence provided by HSL indicates that Miss W didnt return the DAF until the end of 
February 2023  almost a year after the previous deferment period had ended. I appreciate 
Miss W says this was the earliest she could do so because of needing an accountant to help 
with her books. But I dont consider the delay was due to anything that HSL had done wrong.
HSLs notes show that it made several unsuccessful attempts to contact Miss W by phone 
between May 2022 and August 2022. HSLs notes from a successful call in early August 
2022, say that although she had been unwell, Miss W had asked her accountant to put her 
accounts together and would chase them that day. The notes from the next call in 
September 2022 say that Miss W still didnt have everything together and that she would 
address the arrears on the account as soon as possible. It is not until November 2022 that 
HSL has a record of Miss W saying her illness had reoccurred and that she would get her 
tax return completed by January 2023 and set up a plan to pay the arrears at that time. Im 
satisfied that over this period, HSL treated Miss W fairly by requesting further DAFs on her 
behalf and agreeing to place things on hold to allow Miss W time to respond. HSL agrees that there was a delay between receiving the completed DAF and forwarding it 
to SLC but it offered to backdate the deferment by a month in addition to the three month 
period allowed under the deferment process, which I think was fair. 
The DAF Miss W returned was incomplete and in late March 2023, HSL explained that she 
would need to provide a third party support letter. I appreciate that this was frustrating but I 
also note that when Miss W completed the DAF she indicated she received monthly 
maintenance payments in the section detailing other means of support.  The notes on the 
DAF ask the customer to provide a copy of a signed and dated letter from a third party 
stating the level of support they provide is less than £2,924 per month. Although Miss W sent 
a letter to SLC, it didnt specify the level of support she received. So, I cant blame HSL for 
the fact Miss W was then asked to provide further information about the support she 
receives.
I dont consider HSL is responsible for the further delay caused by the DAF being incomplete 
and which appears to have led to Miss W needing to restart the process due to the time that 
has passed since her last deferment period ended.
Although Miss W says she was told she could send the forms by email, HSLs notes indicate 
that at the end of March 2023, it gave her SLCs postal address. HSL had previously 
explained to Miss W that it would need to print off forms to send to SLC. And the DAF states 
that customers should return everything to SLC to the postal address provided. So, I think it 
should have been reasonably clear to Miss W that she needed to return the deferment 
application to SLC by post rather than by email. 
As our investigator has already said, if Miss W needs copies of the forms she previously 
submitted, I would expect HSL to help if she asks it to. HSL has also said that once the 
deferment is agreed, it may be possible to review the arrears on Miss Ws account if there 
were exceptional circumstances behind the delay, such as ill health. I suggest that Miss W 
speaks to HSL about what evidence it would need to see once her deferment application is 
approved if this hasnt already happened.
Overall, Im sorry to disappoint Miss W but I dont find that HSL has treated her 
unreasonably, so I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman