DRN-3047007
The complaint
Miss U complains that Azzurro Associates Limited and its agents gave misleading 
information about the outstanding balance of a loan. Miss U also complains that Azzurro 
recorded a default on her credit file after telling her shed entered into a new loan agreement. 
Miss U says Azzurro failed to respond to her or its agents. 
 
What happened
Miss U had a loan with another business that was sold to Azzurro in May 2019. Azzurro 
appointed agents (M) to administer the account and Miss U agreed a payment plan of £100 
a month. Miss U has made payments in line with the arrangement since that time. 
Azzurro later told Miss U she had entered into a new loan agreement but that it had been 
closed and a default was recorded on her credit file. 
Azzurro sent Miss U a default notice that gave an outstanding balance. But the balance 
provided was different to the information Miss U had obtained from M. Miss U says she tried 
to resolve the problem with M but was told it needed information from Azzurro. 
Miss U complained and Azzurro issued a final response. Azzurro gave the correct 
outstanding balance. Azzurro also confirmed the default notice it sent contained the wrong 
balance. Azzurro provided a statement showing how payments Miss U had made had 
reduced the outstanding balance. 
Azzurro also said that when it bought the debt it took over the right to report a default to the 
credit reference agency if Miss Us payments werent maintained in line with the original loan 
agreement. Azzurro agreed to remove the default from Miss Us credit file on the basis she 
maintained the existing payment plan. 
Miss U referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld Miss Us complaint and asked Azzurro to pay her £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its actions. Azzurro accepted but Miss U asked to appeal and said she didnt think 
£300 was fair. As Miss U has asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Azzurro did make mistakes with Miss Us account. The default notice it sent 
contained the wrong balance and I can understand why that caused distress for Miss U. In 
addition, I believe Miss U when she says she found the whole situation very stressful and 
that both her and M had to wait for answers from Azzurro. Its clear the service provided was 
poor at times and I can see how upset Miss U became. Ive taken Miss Us comments 
concerning how the issues impacted her into account when deciding how to fairly resolve her 
complaint. 
I understand Miss U finds it difficult to contact Azzurro directly and that she has to use an 
online form. But Azzurro has appoint M to administer the account and Miss U can contact it 
for information, including the balance. I dont doubt Miss U has found trying to contact 
Azzurro frustrating, Ive taken this on board. 
Azzurro has confirmed the default it recorded has been removed from Miss Us credit file. 
Azzurro has also confirmed that, if Miss U maintains the existing payment plan, it wont 
record another default. I think thats fair. Ultimately whilst Miss U is making payments 
towards the outstanding debt, theyre lower than the monthly payments she agreed to make 
to the original lender. And Azzurro assumed the rights of the original lender when it 
purchased the debt. If Azzurro had followed the correct steps, it couldve taken the option of 
applying a default on the basis of receiving lower payments under a payment arrangement. 
So I think the agreement to remove and withhold a further default on the basis Miss U 
continues to make payments is fair and reasonable. 
Miss U says Azzurro still hasnt resolved the incorrect balance issue. But in its final 
response, Azzurro gave details of Miss Us correct outstanding balance and sent her an up 
to date (at the time of sending) statement of account. Ive looked at the statement 
information Azzurro supplied and Im satisfied its given the correct balance in its final 
response. Im sorry to disappoint Miss U but I dont agree that Azzurro has failed to resolve 
this part of her complaint. 
Our investigator asked Azzurro to pay Miss U £300 in recognition of the trouble and upset 
caused by its actions. Ive considered everything Miss U has told us about how the problems 
affected her, including the length of time the issues went unresolved. Having done so, I think 
£300 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Miss U. As I think £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances, Im going to uphold Miss Us complaint and proceed on that basis. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Us complaint and direct Azzurro Associates Limited to pay 
her £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman