DRN-4096500
The complaint
Mr M complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his repair 
claim under his motorhome insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M made a repair claim after his motorhome was damaged in high wind. He said 
Markerstudy took too long to inspect it, didnt inspect it properly and didnt arrange for it to be 
repaired, but expected him to arrange it instead. He also complained that Markerstudy 
misinformed him and were generally unprofessional. 
Markerstudy said the policy didnt require them to arrange the repair themselves, only to pay 
for the repairs, and it was normal for the policyholder to arrange that, but they had tried to 
help. However they agreed that their communication had been poor and offered Mr M total 
compensation of £225.
Mr M didnt think that was enough to compensate him for the time, worry and stress they 
caused him. He also wanted them to refund his policy premium for the 4 years hed been 
insured with them because he felt that the policy wasnt ever fit for purpose.
The investigator partly upheld the complaint because he thought Markerstudy had delayed 
and so hadnt treated Mr M fairly. He thought that Markerstudy should pay a further £150 in 
compensation, making a total of £375. Neither Mr M nor Markerstudy agreed and so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy agree that they couldnt find a local garage to inspect or repair Mr M s 
motorhome. This seemed to be because it involved both external and internal repair. This 
meant that it was about three months before Markerstudy had it inspected to decide if it was 
economical to repair. However I see from Markerstudys file that they did try several garages 
first.
Mr M didnt think the inspection was satisfactory but Markerstudy felt that Mr M hadnt co-
operated with it. But in any event Markerstudy said that they were willing to pay for the 
repairs but Mr M would have to arrange the repairer himself and submit estimates then 
receipts for payment.  
Mr M said as follows. He expected Markerstudy as the insurer to arrange repair, and not get 
him to do the work for them. If hed known that at the start he wouldnt have bought the 
policy and it wasnt fit for purpose. The motorhome didnt have to be fixed by a local repairer, 
and Markerstudy should have sent it to somewhere else in the UK to do the work. 
Markerstudys position from the beginning was one of negativity, denial of their 
responsibilities and unhelpfulness, and their communication was poor. Mr M had been  
worried the damage to his motorhome would get worse while left in disrepair, and he was 
unable to use it.  
Markerstudy offered him compensation for their poor communication, firstly of £75, then 
another £150 for avoidable delays and lack of contact. But Markerstudy said they were not 
obliged under the policy to have it repaired themselves and it was normal procedure for them 
to get the policyholder to arrange it. 
Ive looked at the policy and see it does only require Markerstudy to pay for repairs, and not 
to arrange repairs. As the investigator explained, that is not uncommon. I know that Mr M  
has shown us some other insurance policy wordings which do require the insurer to arrange 
repairs, but Markerstudys policy doesnt do that and thats what Mr M agreed to when he 
bought the policy. 
So I dont think that Markerstudy were under any obligation to send his motorhome 
somewhere else in the UK. However these things dont mean that his policy wasnt fit for 
purpose. Although Mr M thought that Markerstudy were refusing to help him, Markerstudy 
havent refused to deal with his claim. The policy requires them to pay for repairs and 
Markerstudy have not refused to do that.  
In the end Mr M did have his motorhome repaired at his own expense, and Markerstudy now 
have the receipts for this and wish to liaise with Mr M  direct about it. So its up to Mr M  if he 
wishes to do that.     
However I do think that Markerstudy could have done more to help Mr M . The delay in the 
inspection meant that Mr M remained worried that the condition of his motorhome would 
deteriorate in the meantime. He also had to contact them numerous times by phone and 
webchat, but they wouldnt update him or make any further progress and I can see that he 
found this frustrating. This was particularly difficult for him as he was also unwell at the time 
of the claim, and I think that Markerstudys inaction and lack of communication caused him 
more worry than necessary. 
This means I dont think that Markerstudys compensation does adequately reflect the 
distress and inconvenience that their actions have caused Mr M. I agree with the investigator 
that this is more fairly compensated by Markerstudy paying him total compensation of £375, 
being an additional £150 to the compensation cheques Markerstudy have already offered 
him but which he says he has not been able to cash.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint. I require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do the following: 
 Pay Mr M total compensation of £375 for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
Markerstudy must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr 
M  accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.If Markerstudy consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, they should tell him how much they have taken off. They 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
