DRN-4000312
The complaint
Mr A and Miss G complain Monzo Bank Ltd didnt treat them fairly when requesting a refund 
of a payment made with their debit card. 
Mr A brought the complaint to us so Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr A bought rail tickets using his Monzo Bank joint debit card in July 2022. He couldnt use 
the tickets how he wanted to so he asked the ticket provider for a refund. When he didnt get 
a response he asked Monzo for help to claim a refund. I understand that this was on or 
around 8 August. 
Monzo can ask Mastercard for a refund on behalf of their customer if theres a problem with 
something theyve paid for. These rules for requesting a refund are made by Mastercard and 
refunds arent always guaranteed. Monzo asked Mr A for some information about the 
transaction to raise a request for him. 
Mr A said that Monzo didnt treat him fairly during this process. When he completed the 
dispute form Monzo told him it needed more information and he would need to complete the 
form again. Mr A did this but was told he still hadnt provided the information Monzo needed. 
Mr A said Monzo wasnt clear about what information was needed and responses to his 
queries about this were generic. Monzo also asked him for information hed already 
provided. Mr A said he dealt with a number of representatives and felt they didnt understand 
his issue. Mr A said that all of this took up his time and caused frustration, stress and anxiety 
to him and his partner. 
Mr A also said that Monzo failed to properly acknowledge his declaration of a disability and 
his potential need for adjustments. Mr A said its not always possible to know which 
adjustments he needs in different situations. So its important that Monzo contact him to 
understand what is considered reasonable and what adjustments it can provide. Monzo did 
not do this.
What Monzo said
Monzo upheld Mr As complaint. In a final response letter to him on 16 August, Monzo 
acknowledged that it had gotten things wrong. There were errors in helping Mr A with his 
disputed payment refund and numerous errors in the customer support it provided. Monzo 
also acknowledged Mr As disability and said that someone would be in touch about the 
support it could offer. It offered Mr A £50 in recognition of its errors. 
I noticed that the final response letter also addressed another complaint Mr A had raised 
regarding his sole account. I asked Monzo about the other complaint and Monzo said that it 
had already offered Mr A compensation for that. Monzo said that it hadnt paid Mr A and 
Miss G compensation for this particular complaint. 
What happened next
Mr A was unhappy with the final response and referred his complaint to us. He said to 
resolve things he would like more compensation from Monzo. Mr A also said the ticket 
provider had refunded him in full by 16 August so Monzo didnt need to help with that now. 
Our investigator looked into things and said Monzo could have made a request to 
Mastercard with the information it had. So this delayed things unnecessarily for Mr A. They 
also said Monzo didnt act quickly when Mr A shared that he had a disability. And so it didnt 
make any adjustments for this in how it dealt with him. They recommended that Monzo pay 
Mr A a further £150 in addition to what it had offered, bringing the total compensation 
amount for this complaint to £200. 
Response to the investigators findings
Monzo didnt agree with this recommendation. It said that it wasnt fair to expect it to have 
raised a dispute in hindsight without the information it had requested. Just because the ticket 
provider had now provided the refund didnt mean it should have. Monzo also said that it had 
no record of Mr As telling them about his health at the time. And there had been nothing 
from him to say he needed further support. 
Mr A agreed with the recommendation. But also said Monzos response had aggravated this 
matter for him and he would now like more compensation to resolve his complaint. 
Both Monzo and Mr A asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide and it 
has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the case are known to both Mr A and Monzo so I wont set out what happened 
in further detail. I want to reassure Mr A and Monzo I have reviewed all the information 
available and taken into consideration everything thats been said. I know how important this 
is to Mr A and I am sorry to hear the impact this has had on him and Miss G. 
To be clear I am not considering whether the ticket provider got anything wrong in its 
dealings with Mr A. And Im not considering whether Mr As claim for a refund via Monzo 
would have succeeded. My main consideration is whether Monzo acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it handled Mr As request for a refund. Im also considering the way 
Monzo responded to the personal information hed shared.
The refund process
It seems to me Monzo wasnt flexible in its approach to the refund process insisting Mr A 
complete a new form to provide more information. It then increased Mr As frustrations by 
asking him for information hed already provided. I appreciate the rules for claiming refunds 
are set by Mastercard. However, our investigator found that Monzo could have started a 
refund request on the basis Mr A didnt receive the service he paid for. And Monzo could 
have used the information Mr A provided and without the need to ask him for further 
information. Ive looked at the Mastercard rules and see no reason why Monzo could not 
have done so. 
As it happens, Mr A received his refund about a week later through the ticket provider. So I 
dont think what happened delayed things too much for Mr A. However, Monzo has acknowledged this wasnt good customer service. Mr A said that the refund wasnt a small 
amount of money to him and his partner. It was part of their holiday budget and being unable 
to use these funds left them stressed and anxious.
Providing adjusted support
Our investigator also found that Monzo knew about Mr As disability by 9 August. But Monzo 
didnt make any adjustments to the way it communicated with him. Monzo said in response 
that Mr A hadnt disclosed his disability to it when it was dealing with his refund request. 
Monzo issued its final response of the 16 August. Monzo told Mr A that someone would be in 
touch to discuss what support it could provide within seven days. Monzo also said that it had 
a specialist team available when customers disclose vulnerabilities that require further 
support. However, it couldnt be held responsible in this case as Mr A hadnt specifically 
asked for further support.
Firstly, I can see from the information Mr A provided that he told Monzo of his disability in an 
email on 9 August. At the same time, he raised a complaint about his experience of the 
refund process. He also made comments about a previous complaint hed raised about poor 
customer service. It seems clear to me from this communication that Mr A was unhappy with 
how he was being treated. This should have prompted Monzo to acknowledge and act on 
what Mr A had shared. This didnt happen and Monzo continued to ask Mr A for information 
to support his refund claim.
I appreciate that Monzo did respond to Mr As disclosure in its final response letter and 
contacted him about this directly on 25 August. However, I think it should have acted on this 
information sooner. Mr A had explained he was having a poor experience trying to resolve 
an existing issue and this was part of the reason why. 
Was the compensation fair?
I dont think the amount of £50 Monzo offered to resolve Mr A and Miss Gs complaint fully 
reflects the impact that this experience had on them. 
There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional impact of 
errors. We have an approach which Ive considered alongside everything else when making 
this decision. This approach is set out on our website. It says an apology or a small award of 
less than £100 will typically compensate a one-off incident like a small error or short delay. In 
other words we would award this for an error that caused minimal impact that is put right 
quickly. It seems to me that Monzo has accepted in its final response this isnt the sort of 
error that happened here.
An award between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small 
errors requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically result in an impact that lasts a 
few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, inconvenience, disappointment or 
loss of expectation. I think an award in this range would be appropriate.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested an amount of £150 in addition to the £50 Monzo offered to 
resolve Mr and Miss Gs complaint about these errors. This amount seems to me to be a fair 
and reasonable amount in the circumstances. Monzo now needs to pay £200 to Mr A and 
Miss G.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im upholding Mr A and Miss Gs complaint about Monzo Bank 
Ltd. Monzo needs to put things right as Ive said.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman