DRN-3233043
The complaint
Ms G complained that Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) acted irresponsibly 
when it gave her an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Ms G took out a loan with Dot Dot Loans as follows:
Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountMonthly 
Repayment
22/06/2020 23/12/2020 6 £100.00 £30.89
Ms G mainly said that Dot Dot Loans didnt do proper checks. She told us it accepted her for 
this loan when her credit rating was bad and that it should never have been approved. 
Overall, our adjudicator didnt think that hed seen enough to be able to uphold Ms Gs 
complaint. He felt that the credit checks Dot Dot Loans obtained didnt show anything which 
meant it wouldve been proportionate to do more to check what Ms G had told Dot Dot 
Loans about her financial situation. Our adjudicator thought that Ms Gs borrowing record 
with Dot Dot Loans wouldnt have given Dot Dot Loans any reason to think that she had 
money problems. And based on the information the lender saw in its own checks, the 
lending decision seemed fair. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Ms G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. The complaint 
came to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken 
this into account in deciding this complaint. I would like to assure Ms G that Ive thought 
carefully about all the information provided and having done so, I've come to the same 
view as our adjudicator. I'll explain my reasons for saying this. 
Dot Dot Loans provided Ms G with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly.
Dot Dot Loans was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Ms G before providing it. Thats not the same 
thing as saying that it needed to do a full financial review. There isnt any set list of checks 
a lender has to do  it depends on the particular circumstances.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  for the first loan and during the early stages of a lending relationship. But we 
might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount 
lent was high.
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of that lending 
becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a 
lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and 
what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
Dot Dot Loans said it agreed to Ms Gs application after carrying out all the proper checks 
for the loan. It told us it relied on information Ms G provided about her monthly income 
(which it took steps to verify) and her expenditure. It also took into account statistical 
information based on what someone in Ms Gs particular situation was likely spend each 
month and if that suggested higher figures than Ms G had declared, Dot Dot Loans used 
the higher figures when assessing affordability rather than relying on what Ms G had said.
Dot Dot Loans said the information it recorded for Ms G showed that shed be able to 
comfortably make the loan repayments. And in these circumstances, it was reasonable 
to lend.
It appears that Ms G had declared income of £2,389 and monthly outgoings of £887. After 
doing its own independent checks, Dot Dot Loans didnt think the amount Ms G said she 
spent looked realistic. It used national statistical data to work out what normal expenditure 
would likely be for someone in Ms Gs circumstances. Dot Dot Loans also did its own credit 
checks to find out what Ms G might already be paying to service any existing debt and find 
out about her credit history. This resulted in Dot Dot Loans boosting her expenditure figure 
to allow for Ms G actually needing to spend around £979 per month.
Taking all this into account, it looked like Ms G should have disposable income of 
approximately £1,409 each month  so I think its fair to say the loan repayments 
appeared to be comfortably affordable for Ms G.
As this was her first loan with Dot Dot Loans, Ms G didn't have any track record with 
the lender that shouldve alerted it to any underlying money problems.
From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, 
there wasnt anything that Id expect Dot Dot Loans to have been unduly concerned about 
at this stage.
I dont think Dot Dot Loans had any reason to think that Ms Gs use of credit was out of 
control  the extent of her debt didnt appear excessive for someone in her circumstances, 
its checks showed no other short-term loans or any defaults on her credit record and there 
were no indicators of insolvency, bankruptcy or any court judgements showing on her credit 
history.
I've taken into account everything Ms G has told me about her financial situation at the 
time. But its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference 
agencies. So a lenders credit check might not show all the information someone could see 
(or expect to see) on their own credit file. This means, even if Ms G had additional credit or 
a more detailed credit history that didnt show on Dot Dot Loans credit checks for this loan, 
it still wouldnt be a reason for me to uphold her complaint.
Thats because, looked at overall, I cant see that there was anything in the information 
Ms G provided or the other information Dot Dot Loans recorded, which meant that Dot Dot 
Loans shouldve taken further steps to check the information Ms G had declared. I dont 
think there wasnt anything in the information it had, to suggest Ms G wouldnt be able 
sustainably to repay the loan. And I think the information it had gathered supported the 
lending decision it made.
All in all, this leads me to conclude that the checks done were reasonable and proportionate 
in these circumstances and enough for Dot Dot Loans to agree to lend. And for these 
reasons, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
I appreciate that Ms G feels that Dot Dot Loans didn't do all the checks she thinks it 
shouldve done before agreeing to lend to her. And Im very sorry that Ms G has found 
repaying all her borrowing difficult. I accept that in reality Ms Gs financial situation possibly 
wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided or the other information Dot Dot 
Loans gathered. But in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be able to say that 
the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way  and I cant see that Dot Dot Loans 
did anything wrong when it provided this loan based on information it had at the time, 
which I think it was reasonably entitled to rely on.
I understand that this outcome will be disappointing for Ms G but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
If Ms G is still struggling with debt and would like help to manage her finances or to talk to 
someone about her situation theres more information about how to get free advice on our 
website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman