DRN-3284813
The complaint
Mr G complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (formerly Zenith Insurance Plc) mishandled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Zenith, I include the intermediary and others insofar as I hold Zenith 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car first registered in 2004. On 9 
December 2020, the car passed an MOT with a recorded mileage of about 173,000.
For the year from April 2021, Mr G had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. The 
policy was arranged and administered by an insurance intermediary. Zenith was the 
insurance company responsible for dealing with claims.
Unfortunately, Mr G reported that, on 9 July 2021, a third party cyclist had lost control on a 
pavement and hit Mr Gs car on the front and nearside.
Mr G complained to the intermediary that the policy shouldve included a protected no-claims 
discount (NCD). By a final response dated 26 July 2021, the intermediary upheld that 
complaint. It confirmed that the NCD was protected and said it was sending Mr G a cheque  
for £30.00 compensation for poor service.
By another letter to Mr G also dated 26 July 2021, Zenith mentioned the alternatives of 
repair of the vehicle or total loss payment with a fee if Mr G retained the vehicle. The letter 
included the following:
If you choose to retain your vehicle, your cover will immediately drop to Third Party 
Only. You then have 60 days in which to repair your vehicle and to provide us with an 
engineers report and MOT certificate as confirmation that the vehicle is roadworthy; 
your cover will then be reinstated to Fully Comprehensive. 
On 17 August 2021, Zenith got an engineers report. It estimated the pre-accident value of 
the car at £1,200.00 and the cost of repair as about £3,800.00. It said that the car was a total 
loss in Category N. 
Mr G received a settlement as follows:
Pre-accident value £1,200.00
Less retention fee £   192.00
Less excess £   150.00
Total £   858.00
Zenith wrote a letter to Mr G dated 19 August 2021. It included the following:
There is a requirement to repair your vehicle back to its pre-accident condition within 
60 days of receiving this letter
Your cover will be reduced to Third Party liabilities until such time as we receive the 
following documentation to evidence this and allow us to reinstate full cover
A post-repair Independent Engineers Report
A post-accident MOT certificate

Should you fail to supply this documentation within 60 days we may proceed to 
cancel your policy.
Mr G complained to Zenith that it had gone from requiring a repair to the standard that the 
car was roadworthy to requiring a repair to the standard that the car was in pre-accident 
condition.
By a final response dated 10 September 2021, Zenith turned down Mr Gs  complaint. Mr G 
brought his complaint to us within a few days.
In early October 2021, (a couple of months before his old MOT was due to expire) Mr G got 
a new MOT certificate and sent it to Zenith. 
By a letter dated 22 November 2021, Zenith gave notice that it would cancel the policy with 
effect from 1 December 2021. On 2 December 2021, Zenith wrote a letter to Mr G confirming  
that it had cancelled the policy with effect from the previous day.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that  
Mr G hadnt been given clear information to be able to make an informed decision. She 
thought that the change in what was required caused Mr G quite a bit of stress, worry and 
inconvenience, that couldve been avoided. She didnt think that the policy was cancelled 
fairly in accordance with its terms. She recommended that Zenith should:
1. treat the policy as cancelled by Mr G; and
2. offer Mr G £200.00 compensation for not giving him clear information from the start.
Mr G agreed with the investigators opinion, save that he considered that £200.00 was 
light.
Zenith disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The letters dated 26 July and 19 August 2021 each required 3 things: repairs, an 
engineers report and an MOT certificate.
Mr G made no attempt to make any repairs or provide an engineers report.
If Mr G had made some repairs and provided an engineers report to this effect, then 
Zenith might accept the argument that the wording of putting the car back to its pre-
accident condition mayve been confusing. But hes not done that, therefore, the 
cancellation was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zeniths policy terms included the following:
General Conditions

 2 Looking after your car 
You or any permitted drivers are required to maintain the insured vehicle in a 
roadworthy condition...
3. Having an MOT certificate
There must be a valid Department for Transport test certificate (MOT) in force for the 
insured vehicle if one is needed by law.

6 Cancellation

Cancellation by us
We can cancel this policy at any time if there are serious grounds to do so, including 
but not limited to the following examples:

You have failed to co-operate or provide information and assistance in relation to any 
claim under this policy or with regards to the administration or operation of this policy; 
or
where you fail to maintain the insured vehicle in a roadworthy condition, or you fail to 
look after it in accordance with General Conditions 2 and 3 of this policy. 
So Zeniths terms provided that it could cancel the policy if there were serious grounds to do 
so - of which it gave some examples. One example was failure to maintain the vehicle in 
roadworthy condition. 
Zeniths engineers estimate of as £3,869.10 mustve been to bring the car back to its pre-
accident condition. 
After the engineers report, Mr G decided to keep the car. I find that  at that stage  he 
mustve expected the cover to drop from comprehensive to third party until he got the car 
repaired to the standard that it was roadworthy. But his car was only worth salvage value. So 
he may not have felt the need for comprehensive cover. 
And it wasnt until Zeniths letter dated 19 August that it told Mr G that failure to comply with 
its requirements would result in cancellation of the policy. Furthermore, its requirements for 
repairs and a report changed from showing the car was  roadworthy to showing it was in 
pre-accident condition.
The cyclist had hit the car and damaged it. From Zeniths engineers report and the 
photographs and the latest MOT certificate, I find it likely that Mr Gs car had remained 
roadworthy, and he couldve got a report saying that. But I think Zeniths higher standard of 
pre-accident condition deterred Mr G from incurring the costs of getting a report.
So I dont consider that Zenith treated Mr G fairly by changing its requirements after hed 
made his decision to keep the car. And I dont consider that Zenith treated Mr G fairly by 
suggesting, and later actioning, a cancellation.
Mr G hasnt told us that he had to buy more expensive insurance from December 2021. So I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Zenith to pay compensation for a financial loss.But the record of cancellation by an insurer is likely to affect a policyholder for some years to 
come.
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Zenith to write a letter to Mr G (which he may show 
to current or future insurers) saying that it cancelled his policy unfairly and that it has 
removed any adverse entry from any database to which it has sent information about the 
cancellation.
From the correspondence, Ive seen that  by not treating Mr G fairly  Zenith caused him 
upset and put him to some trouble beyond that which should be expected in connection with 
an insurance claim. That has gone on since late July 2021. So  all things considered  I find 
it fair and reasonable to direct Zenith to pay Mr G £200.00 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct West Bay Insurance Plc (formerly Zenith Insurance Plc) to:
1. write a letter to Mr G saying that it cancelled his policy unfairly and that it has 
removed any adverse entry from any database to which it has sent information about 
the cancellation; and
2. pay Mr G £200.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman