DRN-4100101
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society did not inform her that a switch incentive 
had been withdrawn.
Mrs M is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs M herself.
What happened
Mrs M visited a branch of Nationwide to switch her account from a third party provider and to 
benefit from a £200 switch incentive. When she was in the branch trying to switch the 
account, there was a problem with the email address. Mrs M was able to switch her account 
to Nationwide a few days later with the assistance of a family member. Mrs M had visited the 
branch for an unrelated matter after this and she was told that the switch incentive offer had 
ended on 30 November 2022 (the day before she originally visited the branch), but she says 
she was never told about this and Nationwide staff including a call handler she spoke to 
werent aware the offer had ended on 30 November 2022. Mrs M made a complaint to 
Nationwide.
Nationwide partially upheld Mrs Ms complaint and credited £75 to Mrs Ms account. They 
said sometimes their systems do have a system failure that prevents members from adding 
their contact details. In this case, it was her email she tried to include when she was in the 
branch. They believed due to this error on this day, this was the reason the email would not 
work for her. Nationwide said that they were sorry that the branch did not advise that 
completing the switch in December 2022 would not get the switch incentive as the offer 
ended on 30 November 2022. They said within their terms and conditions, it does clarify that 
the £200 bank account switch offer ended on 30 November 2022. They said if members 
applied to switch their bank account after this date, they were unable to provide the incentive 
with no exceptions. Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He said unfortunately, it was not possible 
to establish precisely what happened with regards to whether Mrs M was informed about the 
switch offer ending or not. Due to this, in part, Nationwide paid Mrs M £75 compensation. He 
said the terms and conditions for the account switch shows that the switch incentive can be 
removed at any point by Nationwide at their discretion. In addition, it details that the switch 
would start 3 October 2022 and would continue until changed, replaced, or withdrawn by 
them. Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide reached out to the branch and told us in their submission to our service that the 
branch advised that they had been advising customers that came in just after (the) offer 
(was) withdrawn that it had been withdrawn, however, this isnt something that they are 
required to do unless specifically asked about (the) switch offer. 
So both parties dont agree on what was discussed here as the branch says they would have 
told Mrs M if she would have asked about the switch offer, and Mrs M says she wasnt told 
about the switch offer ending. Although Mrs M said a call handler she spoke to didnt know 
the offer had ended, Mrs M did not speak to the call handler prior to her application, so Im 
not persuaded that this had an impact on the actions she took in switching her account to 
Nationwide. It may be that Mrs M had seen the switch offer was advertised and visited the 
branch and asked them to switch her account without mentioning the incentive and this is 
why she might not have been told the offer had ended, as people do switch current accounts 
even when there is not a switch incentive, or she may have specifically asked about the 
£200 incentive and they didnt tell her this had ended the day before. 
But as my role is impartial, Im unable to put more weight on either sides version of events 
without the evidence to support this. So Ive had to rely on the current account online switch 
offer terms and conditions, to see what this says about the offer ending, and what notice (if 
any) that Nationwide have to give to withdraw this offer. The offer started on 3 October 2022. 
The terms show that the offer is only available online. There is a section which says Will the 
offer be withdrawn? Under section 16 of the terms it states the following:
We may change, replace, or withdraw this offer at any time. If we do this and youve already 
requested a switch, youll still be eligible for the offer so long as:
The switch completes within 60 days of you requesting it; and 
You meet all of the requirements set out in these terms and conditions, and none of 
the exclusions apply.
So as the offer had expired on 30 November 2022, and the switch process had not been 
started by this date, this is why Mrs M was not eligible for the switch incentive. As the terms 
and conditions state the offer can be withdrawn at any time, then they would not be required 
to give notice that the promotion was ending. 
Nationwide accept that there was poor service provided to Mrs M and they said they would 
credit her account with £75. Im satisfied that this is fair. I say this as it would have been 
frustrating for Mrs M that she couldnt complete her application when she first initiated this. 
And I cant prove whether she was given incorrect information about the switch incentive. So 
it follows that Nationwide should pay Mrs M the £75 they said they would credit her account 
with if they havent already done so. But I dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs M £75 for poor customer 
service (only if they havent already paid this). But I wont be requiring them to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman