DRN-4274176
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont fix the issue which 
prevents him from logging in online and they arent responding to his emails.
What happened
Mr G says that in July 2022 he was unable to access his Barclaycard via his online banking, 
so he asked them to fix it. He says this still hasnt been done, so he has no online access to 
his account. He says initially they tried to fix the issue but now they dont respond to his 
emails about the issue. He says he is unable to view his Barclaycard online via either his 
online banking or via Barclaycards website itself. Mr G made a complaint to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard partially upheld Mr Gs complaint and credited £100 to his account. They 
apologised that he didnt receive an acknowledgement or replies to his emails. They said the 
issue was under investigation by their Information Technology (IT) team. Barclaycard said as 
such, further correspondence they receive in relation to this matter will be passed on to their 
IT team by way of chaser, but it may not be responded to. Mr G brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said unfortunately, there isnt a 
guaranteed fix in place at present. Whilst he appreciated this is likely frustrating for Mr G  
there isnt anything he could reasonably ask Barclaycard to do at this stage. Barclaycard 
suggested that Mr G re-registers online as a possible workaround, but he couldnt see that 
Mr G has attempted this since, but hed urge him to. He asked Mr G to send him 
screenshots of this, but Mr G said there was no point in him spending more time on this, as 
what our investigator was asking him to do is what he has probably already done ten times 
before to no avail.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said since January 2023 he 
wrote numerous further emails chasing Barclaycard and none of these were responded to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Gs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Mr G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to make 
system changes or how to fix IT issues, or mandate how long this should take. It would be 
the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Barclaycard to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr G has about the IT issues which are still affecting 
him despite these being first brought to light over a year ago. So I know why this is very 
important to him as hes said he cant log in via his online banking or via the Barclaycard 
website. 
Barclaycard have said that on 14 November 2022, they informed Mr G that they checked 
with the IT department, and theyve confirmed that their background system is still showing 
he wasnt registered to access his account via the Barclaycard website. They said the 
background system needs to recognise that this access exists in order for his Barclaycard to 
show on his online banking. They said while they asked Mr G to re-register, he advised them 
that he again had issues. But Barclaycard say their records do not show any successful or 
failed attempts to log into the Barclaycard website using the details they provided. 
As Barclaycard have no records of him having any successful or failed attempts to log into 
the Barclaycard website using the details they provided, and Mr G didnt want to provide 
screenshots of the Barclaycard system with this, then I cant forward this onto Barclaycard 
for further investigation. While I note the reasons why Mr G doesnt wish to do this, he may 
wish to try this, and take any screenshots of any errors displayed so he can forward this to 
Barclaycard to assist them with their investigations. 
Ive considered what Mr G has said about a lack of responses to his emails. I can see that 
Barclaycard acknowledged a lack of responses to Mr Gs emails and they paid him £100 
compensation for this on 6 January 2023. This is in line with what our service would have 
awarded if Barclaycard did not pay Mr G this compensation.
But Mr G has said that he has sent a number of emails to Barclaycard since then and he 
hasnt received replies from them. Mr G has forwarded us an email trail covering 6 January 
2023 to 24 April 2023, but his last response from Barclaycard was on 13 January 2023. And 
there are multiple emails hes sent since then which hes had no replies to. So Ive 
considered whether Barclaycard should pay Mr G additional compensation for not replying to 
his emails. 
But I also need to be mindful of what Barclaycard told Mr G in their letter dated 6 January 
2023 when they responded to his complaint. They told Mr G that From a complaint handling 
perspective weve exhausted our process, and as frustrating as it may be, youll need to 
await the outcome of our IT teams investigation. As such, further correspondence we 
receive in relation to this matter will be passed on to our IT team by way of chaser, but may 
not be responded to.
So I do think Barclaycard were clear that they had exhausted their process and that any 
further correspondence may not be responded to. So as they have told Mr G that further 
correspondence may not be responded to, then it is not proportionate to award any 
compensation for this. Barclaycard had given Mr G the details to refer his complaint to our 
service on this letter, so Mr G did not need to keep emailing Barclaycard  especially as they 
told him they had exhausted their process and they may not respond to him. So it follows I 
dont require Barclaycard to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman