DRN-3719389
The complaint
Miss K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly handled a claim under her 
buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Miss K or AXA includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Following an escape of water, Miss K made a claim under her AXA insurance policy.
The claim for damage to the bathroom was accepted. AXA said it would cover the 
cost of replacing damaged tiles and make a 50% contribution towards the 
undamaged ones. And AXA said it would cash settle the claim, providing a proposed 
settlement of £1,755.65.
Miss K said this wasnt enough, saying her own quote was £4,450. And she asked for 
AXA to provide a breakdown of its offer  which she says it hasnt done. Miss K also 
raised concerns about its claims handling, including poor communication and delays.
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said we 
wouldnt expect an insurer to cover all undamaged items. But where this means a 
policyholder will suffer a loss of match, it was fair for the insurer to offer a contribution 
(usually of 50%) towards the undamaged elements. And this is what AXA had done.
The Investigator also said she would expect AXA to provide a settlement at the cost 
to Miss K, not at any reduced rates for its own contractors  which it had agreed to. 
So, it was for Miss K to use the scope of works provided by AXA to obtain a quote.
The Investigator also considered AXAs handling of the claim, saying it had acted 
within a reasonable timeframe, and the delays incurred were a result of difficulties 
Miss K had in obtaining a quote  which she didnt feel would be reasonable to hold 
AXA responsible for. She considered Miss Ks concerns about a conversation with a 
senior staff member but said the call recording wasnt available and the notes 
reflected the matter had moved on since the call.
Miss K disagreed, saying delays were caused by AXAs refusal to answer basic 
questions around its offer. Miss K also challenged that she had caused any delay 
saying she had submitted a quote quickly. And that a conversation with the senior 
manager ended with them promising a later call that didnt take place.
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said AXA wasnt 
required to provide a breakdown of its costs as this was commercially sensitive. And 
that the quote Miss K initially provided included uninsured works, which is why a 
second was required. And that the impact of a missed call back wasnt enough for 
her to make an award for compensation.
Miss K still disagreed, saying AXA should be able to share its costs given its low 
value, but in any case, she said it couldve explained this earlier. And she reiterated 
concerns about AXAs handling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint should 
be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made by the parties, thats 
not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont consider it necessary to 
specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
AXA has accepted an insured peril has taken place and agreed to cover this claim. 
So, I dont need to consider this point any further.
The crux of the dispute in this case is whether AXAs offer to settle the claim is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
AXA has agreed to cover the cost of replacing the damaged tiles, and 50% of the 
cost towards the undamaged tiles. This is in line with the approach of this Service for 
the reasons given by our Investigator previously. And Miss K has agreed to this offer 
in principle.
AXA has said it will cash settle the claim. As a result, I would expect any settlement it 
makes to be reflective of the actual cost to Miss K and not its own contractors 
reduced rates. And it has acknowledged this within its offer to Miss K, in which it asks 
for an estimate that includes a breakdown of itemised materials supply costs, cost of 
labour broken down by hourly/daily rate for each trade engaged, and an estimate of 
the duration of the repairs for each trade engaged.
From what Ive seen, Miss K never provided a quote that meets this requirement. So, 
I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say what AXA has offered is inaccurate 
or low. I understand Miss K experienced difficulties in obtaining such a quote, but I 
dont think it would be reasonable to hold AXA responsible for this.
Miss K states that the offer made by AXA hasnt been broken down. And that the 
scope of works it has provided isnt explained. Ive read through this carefully and Im 
satisfied it details the necessary works required and is in keeping with other scope 
documents Ive seen. It does not include individual costings, nor would I expect it to 
as this will be commercially sensitive.
Miss Ks representative has complained about the actions of a senior staff member 
who they say failed to call them back after promising to do so. As our Investigator 
has said, with no call recording Im not certain what was discussed. But even if I 
agreed the agent had failed to call Miss Ks representative back and wasnt prepared 
with background of the call as has been suggested, I wouldnt be looking to 
compensate Miss K for this. I say this as while it may have been frustrating, it seems 
the claim progressed and so the direct impact of any such mistake on her as an 
individual was limited.
Ive also thought about the wider handling of the claim, and taking everything into 
account it strikes me while AXA may have been able to progress some matters 
sooner than it did, or provide clarification on certain points, this isnt to a degree that I 
would be looking to compensate Miss K for. My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman