DRN-3787334
The complaint
Mr D complains that an online payment he tried to make using his HSBC UK Bank Plc debit 
card was blocked. 
What happened
Last summer, Mr D attempted to purchase a jacket online at a reduced price using his HSBC 
debit card. Mr D says authorised the payment via his HSBC banking app. But the payment 
was picked up by HSBCs fraud prevention system and held for further checks. HSBC sent 
Mr D a push notification to Mr Ds online banking app but says it didnt receive a response. 
Mr D has told us he didnt receive the fraud push notification. A text message was sent 
around an hour after Mr D attempted the transaction asking Mr D to authorise it. But Mr Ds 
explained that by this point the jacket hed hoped to purchase was sold out. 
Shortly after he attempted to payment, Mr D spoke with HSBC and raised a complaint. Mr D 
asked HSBC to pay him the difference between the sale price and original purchase price to 
resolve his complaint. HSBC responded to Mr Ds complaint and said the payment had been 
held by its fraud prevention systems, in line with the account terms. HSBC apologised that 
the text message sent wasnt received in time to complete the purchase and paid Mr D £60 
for the inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint. Ultimately, HSBC confirmed if first 
sent a fraud push notification to Mr D when the payment was initially held. HSBC said its text 
message was sent around an hour after Mr D attempted the payment, when the fraud push 
notification it sent wasnt confirmed. The investigator thought the compensation already paid 
was a fair way to resolve Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D asked to appeal and explained he hadnt received the text message or necessary 
notifications in time to complete the purchase in time. As Mr D asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has set out in their findings, HSBCs account terms allow it to block 
transactions where it suspects fraud. I understand the payment Mr D attempted was entirely 
genuine. But HSBC has provided systems evidence to show its fraud prevention systems 
automatically picked up the payment in question and held it for further enquiries. The 
evidence on file shows HSBC legitimately held the payment for further checks. 
HSBC has also provided systems evidence that shows that when the transaction was 
stopped it sent a fraud push notification to Mr Ds mobile banking app. HSBCs confirmed 
this was specific to the fraud concerns it had. But the fraud push notification wasnt 
confirmed. As a result, HSBC sent Mr D a text message about an hour after the payment 
was attempted, asking him to confirm if it was genuine. I understand Mr D spoke with HSBC 
before the text message was sent. But by that point, Mr D confirmed the jacket hed hoped to 
purchase had sold out. 
Whilst I can see the text message was sent around an hour after the payment was 
attempted, Im satisfied HSBC did send the fraud push notification to Mr Ds online banking 
app at the time it was attempted. HSBCs confirmed it sent the text message when no 
response was received to its push notification. Thats in line with the systems evidence Ive 
seen. 
I can see HSBCs provided different explanations during the investigation concerning the 
timing of its text message. But Im satisfied the systems evidence available shows HSBC did 
send the necessary notifications to Mr D when the payment was held for further checks. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr D but havent been persuaded HSBC made a mistake. 
HSBC paid Mr D £60 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by being unable to 
complete the purchase. I can see how disappointed Mr D was but, in my view, the settlement 
paid fairly recognises the level of distress and inconvenience caused. As Im satisfied HSBC 
has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman