DRN-3744601
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC withdrew a loan offer it had made to him.
What happened
Mr W applied for a loan with Lloyds on 7 May 2022. Mr W called Lloyds on 8 June 2022 to 
progress his loan application but was told at that time by Lloyds that the application had 
expired, and that Mr W would need to apply again. Mr W wasnt happy about this, not only 
because he felt Lloyds hadnt explained to him that his application would expire, but also 
because he felt that any new loan application would attract a less favourable interest rate 
than the application Lloyds had withdrawn from him. So, he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ws complaint. They confirmed theyd approved Mr Ws loan application 
shortly after hed made it, and had made a loan offer to Mr W as a result. Lloyds also 
confirmed that loan offers are only valid for thirty days, which meant the offer made to W had 
expired. Mr W wasnt happy with Lloyds response as he hadnt received the notice from 
Lloyds that his application had been accepted. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W 
remined dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its easy to sympathise with the difficult personal circumstances Mr W has 
explained he was experiencing at the time he applied for the loan with Lloyds and which, to 
the best of my understanding, he continues to experience to this day.
As part of his referral of his complaint to this service, Mr W has provided a copy of an email 
sent by Lloyds which confirmed to Mr W that his loan application had been approved and 
that the loan offer to him was valid for 30 days from the date his loan application had been 
approved  which Lloyds have confirmed was on 9 May 2022. This meant the last available 
day that Mr W could have accepted that particular loan offer from Lloyds was 7 June 2022.
Mr W has explained that while Lloyds may have approved his loan on 9 May 2022, they 
didnt send him an email to advise him as such until 13 May 2022, and that as such he 
believed the 30 day acceptance period referred to in that email began from that date. 
In response to this point, Lloyds have explained that application approval notices are sent to 
successful applicants automatically as part of the application approval process. And while 
Lloyds havent been able to supply a copy of the exact email sent to Mr W  because it was 
automatically generated  they have provided screenshots of their internal systems which 
Im satisfied does demonstrate that Mr Ws application was approved on 9 May 2022.
Lloyds have also confirmed that the letter received by Mr W on 13 May 2022 was a follow up 
letter, sent after and separately to the initial notice which would have been sent automatically 
on 9 May as part of the application approval process. 
I acknowledge that it could be the case that Mr W didnt receive the notice sent to him on 9 
May 2022. However, the 13 May 2022 letter includes that the loan offer is valid for 30 days 
from the date it was approved and doesnt reference the date of the letter itself. 
This is how Id expect a follow-up letter to be worded, and so Im satisfied that in all 
likelihood, Lloyds did approve Mr Ws application on 9 May 2022 and did send him notice of 
the loan offer on that day. And Im also satisfied that the 13 May 2022 letter which Mr W 
refers to, was a follow-up letter, and that as such the 30-day loan offer acceptance period 
shouldnt be considered as starting from 13 May 2022 as Mr W suggests. 
Finally, it also must be recognised that loan providers such as Lloyds can withdraw loan 
offers at any time, should they reasonably choose to do so. And while I dont feel that this 
point is of specific relevance here  given that Im satisfied the loan offer did expire  I make 
it to highlight that a loan offer doesnt constitute any form of right that a consumer has, but 
instead is provided entirely at the discretion of the loan provider. 
All of which means that, while I can sympathise with Mr W here, I dont feel that Lloyds have 
done anything wrong. They approved Mr Ws loan application and made a loan offer to him 
which was available for Mr W to accept for 30 days  in line with Lloyds policies surrounding 
loan offers, which are policies Lloyds are entitled to hold and adhere to.
I can understand why Mr W may have believed the 30-day period given to him to accept the 
loan offer may have begun on 13 May 2022. But ultimately, I feel that Mr Ws belief in this 
regard was based on a misunderstanding on his part, and not as a result of any unfair action 
or inaction on the part of Lloyds. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr W was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I hope Mr 
W will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman