DRN-2860948
The complaint
Mr B complains that Seven Investment Management LLP (7IM) didnt pay him the dividends 
he was entitled to when he sold his units in an accumulation fund.
What happened
Mr B held units in several investment funds through a 7IM Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
On 30 November 2019 (the ex-date), Mr Bs ISA statement showed a Book Cost 
Adjustment being made to his accumulation fund (the fund). And on 9 January 2020 he 
sold all of his unit holdings held in his ISA. But shortly after this, Mr B complained to 7IM 
saying he didnt think he was paid the dividends of £200 due from November 2019.
 
In its final response 7IM explained that accumulation unit dividends arent paid in cash but 
are returned collectively into the fund pool. It said this means the value of the units Mr B held 
would have increased and payment was represented by a book cost adjustment. 7IM said it 
could be argued the pay date wasnt the correct terminology for an accumulation fund as 
the adjustment to the book cost is made at ex-date rather than the pay date.
After referring the matter to our service, Mr B also complained that 7IMs information about 
its ISA transfer options, was inadequate. 7IM responded saying all of the options it can offer 
Mr B, are set out in its terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Bs complaint. In brief, she was satisfied 
that Mr B had received the benefit of the dividend in November 2019. And she considered 
7IMs terms and conditions did provide clear information about its ISA transfer process. 
Mr B disagreed. He maintains 7IM have conned him out of the £200 he was due. So, the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mr B, but I wont be addressing every 
single point hes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the 
outcome of Mr Bs complaint. 
From what I can see, Mr B has received the benefit of the dividend when 7IM said he did. 
The dividend had already been calculated and added to his units by the time he sold them in 
January 2020. As 7IM said, arguably, pay date is the incorrect terminology for an 
accumulation fund as its recorded by way of a book cost adjustment rather than a dividend 
payment paid separately into Mr Bs account. And I can clearly see this cost adjustment was 
made for Mr Bs November 2019 dividend payment.
I appreciate the language used for investments isnt always helpful. And this is why, the 
account Mr B held is useful as it required a financial adviser to be registered to it. Mr Bs 
financial adviser emailed him on 5 May 2020 showing him a statement from 7IMs systems 
and noted Whilst this is not clear on the client transaction reports the system credits the 
value of your account prior to encashment as demonstrated in the above table. The above 
table, shows a Cash Adjustment for £200 being made on 30 November 2019. Despite this 
Mr B still suspects 7IM have conned him, but I cant see any persuasive evidence of this.
The Prospectus for the fund, which I arranged for Mr B to be sent before issuing this 
decision, does explain how the fund works including how dividends are paid. And it clearly 
shows the dividends are made on the ex-dates which are in November and May each year. 
Mr Bs response was that the Prospectus from 2020, only applies to the fund now rather than 
when he opened his account. And in any event, he doesnt think he was provided with this 
document at that time. Whilst I take on board what Mr B says, as an accumulation fund, its 
likely the dividends were always paid into the fund and the price of the fund's units increased 
accordingly. And Mr Bs financial adviser, rather than 7IM, wouldve been responsible for 
ensuring he (Mr B) had the necessary paperwork he needed when he opened the account.
7IM did make an error when one of its agents told Mr B his dividends would normally be 
paid in cash. But this was rectified within a few days and 7IM apologised to Mr B. I dont 
think 7IM needs to do anything further in this regard.
Mr B says evidence of the dividends being added to customers units after he sold his shares 
is that he could see the same funds increased in value by almost the same amount in mid-
February 2020. But I think its more likely any increase was based on the funds 
performance. On balance, I dont consider Mr B has lost out.
I also know Mr B doesnt agree with the way the dividends are reported in 7IMs summary 
statements. But its open to the business to choose whichever format it regards as 
appropriate taking into account its regulatory and legal obligations. Thats a commercial 
decision and not something on which I would seek to interfere.
Finally, Mr B thinks 7IM should provide more information about ISA transfer options. But it 
was only offering him an execution only service. And I think the information it did provide in 
its terms and conditions about its ISA transfer process was clear, fair and not misleading.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman