DRN-1916830
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service and actions taken by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) following claims made on their buildings and contents insurance.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their insurance for damage caused by a burst 
pipe. This service looked and elements of how this was handled under a separate reference. 
The restoration work wasnt completed until March 2019 when Mr and Mrs B retuned home, 
although some snagging issues needed resolving after this point.
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs B noticed staining on their dining room ceiling. Following a call to 
the contractor who organised the previous restoration works, a plumber was sent out to 
confirm where the leak was coming from. Lloyds agreed to trace and access being carried 
out to find the cause of the leak. 
A hole was made in the ceiling and an old capped pipe was found to be the source of the 
leak. Mr and Mrs B have been in the property for nearly 30 years and advised the pipe would 
have been capped off prior to them moving in.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs B the claim for escape of water from the leaking pipe would need 
to be recorded as separate one. It doesnt believe the previous claim to be linked to this and 
so a second claim and second excess will need paying as a result. Mr and Mrs B have paid 
the original bill for the trace and access being carried out. They disagree this should be 
recorded as a separate claim. They complained about this and the following issues after the 
completion of works for the burst pipe claim in 2018.
1. Lloyds failure to provide them with a schedule of works despite repeated requests 
for this;
2. Failure to provide appropriate project management  they feel this was necessary 
considering the extensive work that needed to be done on the property;
3. Plasterers having worked unsupervised for 5 days and the mess that they 
caused which led to the need for several rounds of cleaning, including using 
an industrial cleaning company. The plasterers also broke the cloakroom 
toilet and caused damage to the main lock on the front door;
4. Painters and decorators were sent in to commence work before the 
remediating works were completed. They caused a blockage by pouring 
paint down the cloakroom sink, and removed all the electrical fittings and 
sockets from the entire house after an electrician had been paid to install 
them;
5. The tiler damaging the surface on the bathroom and it had to be replaced. He 
cut tiles in a freshly decorated bedroom rather than outside as asked;
6. The plumbers returning repeatedly to make adjustments to two toilets they 
fitted and they blamed the quality of the toilets rather than their own skills. 
They failed to check the outlet system was working and Mr and Mrs B had to 
deal with a blockage in the soil pipe;
7. Mr and Mrs B have noticed instances of petty theft as they have started to 
unpack their belongings;
8. Mr and Mrs B are having to pay for repair work to the roof of their front porch 
which they feel should have formed part of the claim costs;
9. Whether or not the final payment for the burst pipe claim should be paid with 
8% simple interest added on;
10. The customer service received during the complaints process; and
Our investigator looked into all of the points raised by Mr and Mrs B in some detail. She 
issued two views, the first in February 2020 and the second in May 2020. She also 
answered a number of post view questions.  In summary, she didnt think Lloyds had done 
everything it needed to on this claim and errors and delays had been caused which resulted 
in distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B. She recommended that Lloyds pay £750 to 
Mr and Mrs B to recognise the impact of its failings here. This was in addition to any other 
payments previously made. 
She didnt think it was fair to ask it to consider the damage to Mr and Mrs Bs porch as she 
wasnt persuaded this was a result of the damage caused by the burst pipe. And she felt it 
had acted fairly when applying the terms of the policy with the claim made for a designer 
handbag. So she didnt ask Lloyds to do anything else here. 
She didnt think Lloyds needed to add interest to its settlement that was outstanding when 
the complaint was brought to this service as she didnt think Lloyds had added a delay in this 
being paid. This payment was made in September 2020.
With the claim for escape of water in June 2019, she felt it was fair for Lloyds to record this 
as second and new claim. She didnt think it was clear that but for the work carried out by 
Lloyds to rectify the burst pipe that the old capped pipe wouldnt have developed the leak it 
did. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree with the view of our investigator. They feel the compensation offered 
for distress and inconvenience is significantly short of where they think it should be. Theyve 
quoted what they consider to be a middle ground figure from awards made in court and feel 
£18,000 is a fair settlement for their distress and inconvenience. 
They dont agree Lloyds has handled the claim for the handbag fairly. As well as believing 
they should get the total value of the handbag paid, they feel this value should be 
reassessed. When theyd emailed previously to accept the original valuation when the 
settlement offered, their focus was on getting back to their home and not the value of the 
handbag. 
They disagree the second claim should be treated as a separate new issue and have cited 
how they feel the work for the burst pipe was the underlying cause of this new leak. They 
dont think its fair to record this a second claim.
As Mr and Mrs B have disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, but Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint includes a number of points. Although Ive noted all of their 
concerns and understand the frustration theyve experienced with how their claim was 
handled, I dont intend to address each point separately. Ill instead focus on what I feel are 
the overarching issues of the complaint.
Distress and inconvenience payment  
Lloyds agrees it took longer than it said it would to complete the works on Mr and Mrs Bs 
house. And during the claim theres been several issues with contractors which have 
understandably upset Mr and Mrs B. Lloyds has agreed to pay £750 to Mr and Mrs B in 
recognition of these issues. The question is whether the amount awarded by our investigator 
to compensate for these issues is fair
The work that was required in Mr and Mrs Bs house after the burst pipe in 2018 was 
extensive and this required them to be put in alternative accommodation while the work was 
completed. Claims of this nature mean there is an inevitable amount of distress and 
inconvenience which will unfortunately be expected. And its clear Mr and Mrs B have found 
this whole process distressing. What I need to decide is to what extent Lloyds and the 
actions of its contractors through its claims handling unfairly added to this distress.
I understand Mr and Mrs B asked several times for a schedule of the works being completed 
and this would have given them a clear understanding of what was being done and when 
this was expected. And the actions of some of the trades on site and the further damage 
they caused when completing the work required  although now put right  will have 
certainly added to the distress and inconvenience of this situation as well as the claim taking 
longer than expected. But I think the award made by our investigator to compensate for the 
impact of this is fair.
The date when the works were expected to be completed was moved from October 2018, to 
December 2018 and eventually to March 2019. And while this would have been extremely 
frustrating and its clear some delays have been caused by poor workmanship I dont think it 
warrants any further payment. Mr and Mrs B have given lots of detail about errors made by 
Lloyds when their claim was handled and the frustration of these is clear. But as Ive said, 
claims of this nature will inevitably involve a large amount of inconvenience and distress and 
seeing their house need the work it did and this taking longer than they hoped will have been 
upsetting. Its fair Lloyds compensates them for failing to meet the timeline set out and 
adding to this inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs B have been clear that they feel a significantly higher payment is warranted and 
quoted a middle ground from cases they feel are similar made by courts. Theyve not 
provided a huge amount of detail on these but even if they had, I dont think they are 
comparable. This service is separate to the courts and so their view of the compensation 
might be different. But based on the facts of Mr and Mrs Bs case and the impact of Lloyds 
actions when handling this claim, I think its fair Lloyds pay Mr and Mrs B £750.00 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.  
Designer handbagMr and Mrs B dont think the amount theyve been offered for a designer handbag which was 
damaged with the escape of water in 2018 is fair. They feel the policy makes it clear that 
they should receive the cost of a replacement as new if available and they dont think Lloyds 
has correctly applied the terms of its policy when only offering a partial payment for the 
handbag.
Lloyds has said the offer made was based on an agreed replacement value of £2450.00. It 
feels with the handbag having a residual value and as Mr and Mrs B having kept the 
handbag, its acted fairly paying the difference.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy explains that Lloyds will settle claims for contents in one of three 
ways. It will either repair, replace or make a money payment for any lost or damaged item. If 
a payment is made it will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the 
nearest equivalent less any discounts obtainable. If the item is irreplaceable it will base its 
payment on expert opinion of the value immediately prior to its loss or damage.
The handbag, although not completely unique doesnt appear to be replaceable by 
purchasing a new one now as its design or model is no longer available. So Lloyds has 
needed to base its value of the loss on its expert opinion. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs B emailed Lloyds with a list of outstanding contents items, this 
included the designer handbag listed as item number one. In this email they explained the 
steps theyd take themselves to try and ascertain a replacement value for the handbag and 
at the time, the prices ranged from £2350 to £2450. Mr and Mrs B also confirmed with Lloyds 
theyd had the handbag valued and in its current state, it was valued at £1000.00. 
Lloyds provided a figure for the replacement value of the handbag using this expert opinion 
when the claim was originally submitted and it was agreed at £2450.00. This can be taken 
as the value of the handbag pre loss. Mr and Mrs B provided a value of the handbag post 
loss/damage at £1000.00. This means after the damage to it, Mr and Mrs Bs loss is 
£1450.00 if they keep the original bag which they have. 
Insurance is designed to put a consumer back in the position they would have been after an 
insured peril/event. It isnt designed to put the consumer in a better position than they would 
have been in had no claim occurred. And I think Lloyds has acted fairly when offering to pay 
for this loss.
It would be unreasonable to expect Lloyds to pay for the new/replacement value of the bag 
and not discount the residual value of it when it has been retained by Mr and Mrs B. By 
paying the difference, Mr and Mrs B have been put back in the position they would have 
been in pre-loss. Because of this, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more with the 
claim for the handbag.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have recently provided additional prices for the replacement value 
of their handbag with similar ones now available, however I dont think its fair to ask Lloyds 
to reconsider the cost of this now. Designer handbags have a residual value and like all 
markets, the cost of new and used items can go up and down. As a price was agreed 
previously, I dont think it will be fair to know review this based on a how prices might have 
changed or what similar handbags are now available. Mr and Mrs B have said at the time 
their focus was on moving back into the house and not the value of the bag, but they 
explained theyd taken steps to ascertain its value in their email and I dont think changing 
this now is fair.Interest payment and outstanding contents items 
Mr and Mrs B have said they believe some items might have been stolen from their home by 
tradesman completing the renovation work. Theyve noticed this since returning and are 
understandably unhappy with this. I havent seen anything to show theyve reported this theft 
to the police or given a list of what has been taken to Lloyds to consider the loss of these 
contents items. In the absence of this, I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to consider a payment 
for these under the claim. 
Lloyds didnt pay the settlement for the handbag and a number of other contents items to Mr 
and Mrs B until September 2020. And a number of these items where paid for previously by 
Mr and Mrs B. Normally if there is a delay in the payment being made and a customer has 
been left out of pocket, wed ask a business to pay interest on the amount paid to 
compensate for this. But in this case, I dont think its fair to ask Lloyds to do this. 
Mr and Mrs B sent a list of the outstanding contents items in January 2019 to Lloyds and 
email correspondence demonstrates these were being considered with offers of payment 
being made in February 2019 for some of these items  with confirmation other costs were 
still being considered.
In June 2019 Lloyds provided a breakdown of all outstanding costs it was willing to pay. It 
asked that Mr and Mrs B to confirm their acceptance of this before making the payment. Mr 
and Mrs B didnt agree and instead brought their complaint to this service. 
I do think Lloyds could have paid the outstanding balance to Mr and Mrs B without 
acceptance as ultimately as the insurer, it can decide what it is willing to pay for the claims it 
covers. But as Mr and Mrs B said they didnt want it paid while the complaint was looked at, 
it doesnt feel fair to now ask Lloyds to pay interest on this payment. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs B feel Lloyds put pressure on them for the claim to be closed if there was no 
acceptance, but whether the claim was open or closed in the background doesnt stop them 
from being able to complain about how the claim was handled. As Lloyds appears to have 
withheld payment on the final balance because of Mr and Mrs B asking for this to be delayed 
while the complaint was looked at, it doesnt feel fair to now ask it to add interest on to the 
payment.
Porch roof
Mr and Mrs B feel damage to their porch roof should be covered by Lloyds as part of the 
escape of water claim. The roof sits directly under one of the areas most impacted by the 
water and because of this, they feel the damage has been caused by the escape. They saw 
what theyve described as a white substance coming out of the roof tiles after the leak and 
they feel this substance was the felt lining washed away by the escape of water.
Lloyds provided evidence from a roofing specialist which it says demonstrates there was no 
damage caused to the porch roof following the escape of water. The roof tiles were lifted and 
the inside of the roof space was inspected. It was confirmed there was no sign of mould or 
damage to the roof space. Although there is no mention of felt in the feedback, I dont think 
the absence of this being mentioned means this was missing or demonstrates damage had 
been caused. 
The specialist felt there was no sign of damage and without anything to show otherwise, Im 
not persuaded the repairs Mr and Mrs B wish to make to their porch are needed because of 
the escape of water. There is no evidence to show damage was caused to the porch roof or 
that the white substance coming out from under the tiles is the roofing felt from within. Based on everything Ive seen, Im in agreement with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair 
to ask Lloyds to cover to the costs of the repair works Mr and Mrs B have provided a quote 
for.
June 2019 leak
There is no dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs loss for the water damage following the second leak 
is an insured peril and covered under the policy. But it is the cause of this which is disputed 
and whether it is fair to record this as a second claim or continuation of the first.
Mr and Mrs B feel the leak noticed in June 2019 shouldnt be recorded a separate claim. 
They believe this only happened because of the renovation work following the escape of 
water in March 2018. They feel that the principle of But for is applicable here as but for 
the damage caused in 2018 and the work needed to put this right, the leak in 2019 would 
never have happened.
In causation, the proximate cause means the dominant cause1. Mr and Mrs B feel the 
original claim and remedial works is the dominate cause and but for this work being 
completed, the old capped pipe wouldnt have leaked and caused the damage to their dining 
room. They argue that theyve been in their house for a number of years and the capped 
pipe has been capped since they moved in  never giving any issue or concerns. With the 
leak only being noticed after the renovation work was completed on the escape of water, 
they think its clear this has been the cause of the issue now. I dont agree that it is clear this 
is the cause of the leak now.
The work on Mr and Mrs Bs house was completed in March 2020 and when this work was 
being completed floors needing removing and replacing. There is no indication that during 
this, a leak on the old capped pipe was noted, even after water was turned off and on again 
following the repairs. If there was no impact on the capped pipe at the time of the renovation 
works, I think its unreasonable to say a later issue can be attributed to these. 
As part of the information provided on this element of the complaint, Ive reviewed both the 
images and video of the leaking pipe. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel the fact this video is 
enhanced means it shows the drip frequency and size of droplets to be quicker and bigger 
than they were, but I think this gives a fair indication of how the pipe was leaking. The video 
shows a fairly consistent dripping flow of water coming from it and with the rate at which this 
was flowing. I think its unlikely this would have been leaking for three months ahead of Mr 
and Mrs B noticing it. 
This means I think its unlikely this leak started to occur when the renovation work was being 
carried out or completed. Because of this, I dont think its fair to say that but for the 
renovation work this pipe wouldnt have developed a leak. Although there is a relatively short 
amount of time between the previous works and the new leak, Im satisfied the break in time 
and lack of evidence to demonstrate this was damaged when the original work was 
completed means Lloyds has acted fairly when its said this needs to be recorded as a new 
separate claim. 
Putting things right
In recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of this claim, Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr and Mrs B £750.00. 
My final decision
1 Leyland Shipping Co Ltd v Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd [1918] A.C 350 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited need to put things right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman