DRN-3520625
The complaint
Mrs S complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG), after her boiler broke down, 
following an annual service, under her home emergency insurance
What happened
Mrs S held a home emergency policy that amongst other things, covered her boiler for an 
annual service and repairs. She contacted BG for an annual service, and it sent an engineer. 
Following the service, Mrs S describes that she heard banging noises coming from the 
boiler, so she contacted BG again. It sent another engineer who found that the filling loop 
had been left open. So, he reduced the pressure and left the system working. 
Soon afterwards, Mrs S said that the boiler broke down. She contacted BG who said that it 
was unable to send an engineer and gave her authority to instruct a third-party engineer. 
That engineer found the pressure relief valve (PRV) and a new expansion vessel was 
required, and he replaced these, as they had failed due to the over-pressurisation.  
Mrs S said that she had also been told by the BG engineer who came to check her system 
following the repairs carried out by the independent engineer, that a coil had burst in her 
water tank which burst a pipe causing a leak and damage of her flooring. Mrs S said that she 
was told that this was as a consequence of the over-pressurisation of the system. 
BG reimbursed Mrs S her costs for the independent engineer. It also replaced the coil and 
water tank and repaired the burst pipe. But Mrs S complained that BG hadnt replaced the 
flooring that was damaged due to the leak, nor had it adequately compensated her for 
damage caused to her lawn. Mrs S said that the BG engineer poured chemical water on to 
her lawn when he drained down her system, which damaged the lawn.
Mrs S complained to BG as she wanted it to replace her damaged flooring, pay for the repair 
of her lawn, adequately compensate her for what she believed was an invalid warranty on a 
relatively new boiler. As well as reimburse the premium payments she had made since the 
issue arose. 
In its final response, BG said that there was no way for Mrs S boiler to be over pressurised 
as it contained a three bar PRV which protected her system to prevent it being over-
pressurised or which allowed the pressure to get higher. It explained that the pressure 
coming into the house was set at a maximum three bar. In addition, the leak under the 
floorboards was caused by the coil splitting (the coil could withstand pressure of up to 12 
bar) and the pipework under the floor could withstand pressure of up to 10 bar. Ultimately, it 
didnt accept the damage to the wooden flooring and lawn, but accepted that its engineer 
had left open the filling loop and the impact this wouldve had on Mrs S. And, it offered £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Mrs S was given her referral rights and she referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
although Mrs S had provided a report from the independent engineer who replaced the PRV, 
that report didnt provide any evidence of what caused the leak that ultimately damaged Mrs 
S flooring. So, in the absence of any other expert evidence, he was persuaded by BGs 
expert who said that the leak wasnt caused as a result of its engineers actions. 
He said that the policy was clear that BG responsibility was to leave a level and filled in 
repair to the flooring, it wasnt to replace the flooring. 
His view was that the water was that poured on the lawn was clean water and unlikely to 
have caused damage. He found that Mrs S hadnt provided any evidence that her warranty 
had become invalidated, due to BGs actions. And finally he said that he couldnt 
recommend BG reimburse the premium payments as Mrs S had had cover, that provided for 
the repairs to the burst pipe, the reimbursement of the independent engineer and  the 
replacement of the coil and hot water tank. In addition, he was unable to ask BG to increase 
its offer of compensation for the trouble and upset caused, as he thought it was fair in the 
circumstances.   
BG accepted the view, Mrs S did not. Mrs S said our investigator had got a number of 
aspects incorrect in his view. She wouldnt accept that £100 was fair, especially as her lawn 
would cost £250 to replace. She said that the BG engineer was the one who said that the fail 
safes had been compromised due to the over-pressurisation that ultimately lead to the leak. 
She felt that BG caused the leak due to its engineers actions and that she was being made 
to pay for it. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mrs S, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
Mrs S said that BG were at fault due to its engineer failing to close the filling loop, which she 
said BG told her that the system became over-pressurised and ultimately caused the leak, 
that cause damage to her flooring. She also said that the BG engineer caused damage to 
her lawn by pouring water from her system on to it, and this killed the grass on her lawn. 
As we are not experts, we rely on the experts reports that are provided by the parties.
Mrs S provided a report from her independent engineer as to what he found to be the issue 
with the system, when he came to repair it. The report said: Upon investigation, we found 
that the pressure relief valve was letting-by and the internal expansion vessel was flat. The 
expansion vessel was re-charged but did not hold the air charge and the pressure relief 
valve would not re-seat, clear indicators that these two components had failed due to 
constant stress of over-pressurisation. We therefore installed a new expansion vessel along 
with a new pressure relief valve. Although I accept the report discloses what caused the 
boiler to breakdown, it does not provide any evidence of the cause of the leak, nor does it 
mention anything regarding the leak. 
Mrs S was asked to provide further evidence from her engineer in relation to this, but this 
wasnt provided.  Mrs S said that it was the BG engineer who discovered the leak and it was 
him who told her that the over pressurisation caused the leak. 
Conversely, BG said that it was impossible that Mrs S boiler to be over pressurised as it 
contained a three bar PRV which protected the system to prevent it being over-pressurised or allowing the pressure to get higher. It explained that the pressure coming into the house 
was set at a maximum three bar. And the system could withstand pressure far in excess of 
this. 
BG went on to explain that the cause of the leak was a faulty coil which burst in her water 
tank and ultimately caused the leak under her flooring. In the absence of any contrary expert 
report from Mrs S, I cant agree that it was the fault of the BG engineer who left the filling 
loop open that caused the leak to occur. 
I understand that Mrs S said that she was told by the second BG engineer, that it was the 
over-pressurisation that caused the leak, there is no expert report to confirm this from that 
engineer. In these circumstances, I am persuaded by the expert from BG, that there was no 
link between the filling loop being left open and the leak that occurred. 
Mrs S said that she believed that because of BGs actions, this would have invalidated the 
warranty on her boiler. She was asked to provide evidence that her warranty would be 
affected. This wasnt provided. For this reason, I am unable to agree that BG are responsible 
for invalidating the warranty, as there is no evidence that the warranty has been invalidated 
in any event. 
Mrs S has also complained that when the BG engineer attended, he poured chemical water 
onto her lawn that caused damage to it. BG said that the water contained in the cylinder 
would have been clean water and unlikely to have caused damage. Having reviewed the 
policy terms and conditions, they are clear that BG wont restore or be responsible for the 
replacement of grass. I have explored this further in my findings.  
Mrs S also said that BG should be responsible for the damage caused to the flooring and the 
replacement of it. But BG said that the terms and conditions of the policy, said that it 
wouldnt be responsible for replacing the original flooring. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and it says: We wont be responsible for 
repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace or restore the original surface or 
coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or plants. The term does 
state what BG obligations are under the policy were it has carried out repairs: getting access 
to your boiler, appliance or system, and then repairing any damage we may cause in doing 
so, by replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed and by filling in 
holes we have made and leaving a level surface. From the evidence that Mrs S has 
provided (photos of her floor) it shows that any holes that were made when BG repaired the 
pipe, have been filled and levelled. So, I cant agree that BG hasnt fulfilled its obligations 
under the policy.
Finally, Mrs S has requested that BG reimburse the premiums that she paid under the policy. 
She has also said that she had been told by another BG engineer that it is likely in the future 
that more leaks would occur due to the over-pressurisation.  
In terms of the refund of premiums, Mrs S has said that she has had to call out BG since this 
incident. She confirmed that BG reimbursed her for the cost of the independent engineer, 
repaired the burst pipe, replaced the water tank and coil. So, I think that BG has complied 
with its obligations under the policy and has attended as and when Mrs S has required it to.  
So, I cant agree that it would be fair from BG to refund the premiums to Mrs S. I also cant 
comment on events in the future, but from BGs actions, it has continued to provide cover to 
Mrs S. 
BG accepted that its engineer left the filling loop open and for this error it offered £100, 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. I have considered this in line with the impact this wouldve caused Mrs S. And I agree that the £100 offered is fair. Mrs S said that 
she has yet to have received the compensation and I think BG ought to pay the £100 to Mrs 
S, unless it has already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman