DRN-3323069
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has declined a claim made 
under her insurance policy. Shes also unhappy a floor tile was broken by RSA during the 
claim investigation.
What happened
Mrs C noticed her conservatory floor was cracking. As she thought it might be due to tree 
roots from a local authority owned tree, she contacted them. They advised Mrs C to contact 
her insurer and obtain a report. So Mrs C contacted RSA, the provider of her home 
insurance, in June 2020.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster who arranged an investigation into the cause of the cracking. 
Following this, RSA declined Mrs Cs claim. They said that the conservatory was subsiding 
due to inadequate foundations, and they said damage caused by faulty design was excluded 
under her policy.
Mrs C was unhappy with this decision, and that a tile had been broken during claim 
investigation, so she complained to RSA. Ultimately RSA maintained the claim decision. But 
they agreed to cover the cost of the missing broken tile on a health and safety basis, subject 
to Mrs C providing quotes.
Mrs C was unhappy with RSAs claim decision, so she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that she didnt think 
RSA had fairly applied the faulty design exclusion. She said RSA had relied on regulations 
and standards that werent relevant at the time the conservatory was built. So, she said RSA 
should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. She also said that RSA 
had acted fairly in offering to cover the cost of replacing the tile if Mrs C provided quotes.
Mrs C agreed with our investigator. RSA didnt agree and an ombudsman was asked for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA doesnt dispute Mrs Cs conservatory is suffering from subsidence, and thats an 
insured event under her policy. But RSA say that an exclusion applies, and therefore the 
claim isnt covered. Ill consider whether RSA has acted fairly by applying the exclusion.
Mrs Cs conservatory was constructed in 1995 by a builder. Mrs C said the builder 
suggested foundations of 457mm, but due to the proximity of trees, she asked for this to be 
increased to twice the depth.
Following Mrs C noticing cracking, in June 2020 she reported this RSA. A loss adjuster and 
specialist were appointed by RSA who carried out investigations into the cause. When 
RSAs experts investigated the claim, they carried out analysis of the ground. They said the 
foundations were 1,000mm and roots from an oak tree were found at 2,300mm.
RSA believes that but for the depth of the foundations, which they say are inadequate, the 
subsidence wouldnt have occurred. So, RSA relied on the following exclusion in Mrs Cs 
policy:
What is not covered
Damage caused by:
or from poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials
RSA says that the foundations are inadequate for several reasons. In the early stages of the 
claim, RSA said the conservatory foundations didnt meet the standards laid out by a new 
home warranty provider Ill call Z. They said Zs standards are recognised in the construction 
industry as the minimum requirements for construction. They said these standards say that 
the foundations shouldve been 3.2-3.3m. However, the standards referred to by RSA here 
were from much later than when the conservatory was built.
In any event, I dont think its fair or reasonable for RSA to rely on Zs standards to conclude 
the foundations are inadequate  or then apply the exclusion. I say this because no evidence 
has been provided to show that the conservatory was required to be built in line with Zs 
standards. Although they may be recognised in the industry, they arent regulations, and as 
they didnt apply to Mrs Cs conservatory at the time, the builder was under no obligation to 
follow these. Consequently, I dont think its fair or reasonable for RSA to rely on Zs 
standards to say the conservatory foundation is of a faulty design or to then decline the claim 
on this basis.
RSA have also relied on BS8004 (1986) 3.2.8.2 and they say this also shows the 
conservatory foundation was poorly designed:
The shrinkage of clay may be increased by the drying effect produced by the root 
systemThe range of influence depends on the speciesCare should be exercised to 
ensure that there is adequate space between new buildings and existing trees or the sites of 
trees that have been removed. Alternatively, special foundations founded at depths greater 
than 900mm should be provided
However, RSA accepts that Mrs Cs conservatory is exempt from building regulations. But 
RSA also say good building practices werent followed at the time of construction. Theyve 
said that damage to the conservatory couldve been avoided if proper consideration had 
been given to the proximity of the vegetation.
Whilst it mightve been exempt from building regulations, the builder still wouldve had an 
obligation to build the structure to a good standard, and it should stand the test of time. And 
this is generally shown by the structure being reasonably consistent with the building 
standards at the time and standing without issue for an extended period.
As I said, I dont think its fair to rely on Zs standards as the builder was under no obligation 
to follow them. And the conservatory was exempt from building regulations. But in any event, 
having looked at BS8004, it does appear that the vegetation was taken into account at the 
time of construction. As Ive outlined above, initially foundations were going to be at a depth 
of 457mm, but Mrs C asked for these to be doubled. And the foundations have been 
concluded by RSA as 1,000mm. Therefore, they were deeper than the minimum 900mm outlined. In addition, the conservatory was built in 1995 and the cracking wasnt noticed until 
around 25 years later, so I think its fair to say it has stood the test of time. 
So, as the conservatory was exempt from building regulations, but still exceeded the 
minimum foundation depth guidance, and stood the test of time, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for RSA to rely on the faulty design exclusion to decline the claim. Therefore, 
RSA needs to reconsider Mrs Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
During the initial claim investigation, a tile was cracked by RSAs specialist. RSA noted the 
floor in the remainder of the conservatory had multiple cracked tiles due to the subsidence. 
But ultimately RSA agreed to cover the cost of replacing the single damaged and missing tile 
on a health and safety basis, subject to Mrs C providing quotes. 
I think RSAs offer in relation to the tile here at that time was reasonable, if the remainder of 
the claim was assessed and declined fairly by RSA. But as outlined, I dont think that claim 
decision was fair. So, Im directing RSA to reconsider the claim. And in the course of doing 
this, that may well result in the tiles more generally being covered as part of the claim, 
although at this stage thats not known. But either way, if the tile isnt otherwise covered as 
part of reconsidering the subsidence claim, then I think RSAs offer to replace the tile is 
reasonable, subject to Mrs C providing quotes - as they previously offered to do.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Reconsider Mrs Cs subsidence claim in line with the remaining policy terms
If it isnt otherwise already covered when reconsidering the subsidence claim, cover 
the cost of replacing the damaged tile, subject to Mrs C providing quotes 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman