DRN-3392823
The complaint
Miss V has complained about the valuation esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas 
Wheels paid when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Vs car was stolen and she made a claim to her insurer, esure. Miss V said the car had 
sentimental value, it had been a gift for her birthday, bought from new and had less than 
10,000 miles even though it was a 2009 model.
esure paid a valuation of £4,000, increasing it from an initial valuation of £3,800. Miss V 
provided a valuation from a classic car trader who she said had seen her car before it was 
stolen. They gave a valuation of £5,000.
Miss V was unhappy with the way esure handled the claim in that it sent her a settlement 
payment even though she didnt agree with the valuation. 
Our Investigator explained that Miss Vs policy with esure didnt provide cover for a classic 
car - as it wasnt  but the mileage was low for a car of that age. So he didnt think it fair or 
reasonable to rely on the traders valuation of Miss Vs car. 
The Investigator checked the main motor trade guides as esure had relied on one of these to 
reach its valuation. He said that the main guide esure had relied on could only provide a live 
price on the day, so made it unreliable in reviewing a valuation if the incident was three 
months before this service reviewed a case. So for this reason he disregarded it. 
As it was difficult to obtain a valuation for the exact mileage of Miss Vs car, he obtained a 
bespoke valuation from one of the remaining available motor trade guides for the correct 
mileage of Miss Vs car. Having done so, he found that two of the four guides was out of 
kilter and so he disregarded them in line with our approach. 
Of the two updated guides based on the correct mileage of Miss Vs car, the Investigator 
found the average valuation price was £4,377.50. So the Investigator didnt think esure had 
reached its valuation in a reasonable way  and recommended esure increase the 
settlement to this amount adding interest to the difference at 8% a year.
Both parties disagreed. In summary Miss V is unhappy that the valuation provided by the car 
trader hasnt been given any weight. She says the difference recommended by the 
Investigator with interest doesnt help to buy a similar car. 
esure says the valuation the Investigator disregarded should be taken into account  and 
when it is, the difference overall to its settlement sum is negligible. 
So as both parties disagree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Miss Vs policy with esure says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of the car at the time of loss. 
esure looked at four guides which provided valuations of £3,545, £3,790, £4,156 and  
£4,480. esure says this is why it reached a final valuation of £4,000 as a settlement amount 
being just above the average of the guides. 
The guide esure used of £3,790 was based on a minimum mileage of 20,000. So the 
Investigator obtained a bespoke valuation from the same motor trade guide for the actual 
mileage which came to £4,275. When disregarding the guide of £4,156 as explained by the 
Investigator, this left the valuation guide of £3,545 out of kilter with the revised guides of 
£4,275 and £4,480. 
So in line with our approach, the Investigator thought a fairer way to decide a valuation was 
to rely on the two guides in kilter with each other and based on the actual mileage. I agree 
with this approach. 
Ive looked at the letter provided by a specialist motor trader. It says that in their professional 
opinion the cars value would be £5,000 due to its excellent condition and low mileage. 
Ive also looked at the example cars for sale which Miss V has kindly provided. I appreciate 
that they show a higher for sale price. They do show that the advertised price for cars that 
are similar  but not identical to Miss Vs car  vary widely. Advertised prices are not 
necessarily a guide of the likely selling price. We find they tend to be based on what the 
seller believes the car is worth. They also tend to have a margin built in for negotiating the 
price down. For these reasons, we find the main motor trade guides more reliable as they 
are based on national research and likely selling prices for a car of the same make, model, 
condition, age and mileage as Miss Vs. So Im satisfied that in this case the fairest outcome 
is for esure to pay the difference in line with the Investigators recommendation.
I understand Miss V is upset that esure paid a settlement when she didnt agree with the 
amount. But we think its reasonable for an insurer to pay a settlement even if its in dispute 
 so that a customer has funds to enable them to buy a replacement vehicle. It doesnt 
prevent a customer from disputing the amount or from bringing their complaint to us. 
As I find that esure should have paid more than it did, Im asking it to pay interest on the 
difference to reflect the time Miss V was without the additional funds. I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
 pay the difference in the market value bringing it to a total of £4,377.50. 
 esure should pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest from the 
date of the claim to the date it pays Miss V. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman