DRN-4492608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint follows an ombudsmans decision dated 10 February 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M say that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to follow the 
ombudsmans direction to switch their mortgage onto an interest-only basis. They consider it 
unfair that NatWest treated this as an application that needed an affordability assessment, 
and that it was therefore unfair for the underwriters to have declined the application on the 
basis of mortgage arrears.
Mr and Mrs M say that the mortgage arrears (currently around £190,000) are a technicality 
because theyve considered their mortgage to be interest-only since 2019, and so are 
up-to-date with the interest payments.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs M want NatWest to engage with them in a meaningful 
way regarding their switch to an interest-only mortgage, and to compensate them for the 
additional interest they have been charged by being on the banks Standard Variable Rate 
(SVR).
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs M being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead provide a brief summary and then concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; 
rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have a capital repayment mortgage with NatWest. Since late 2019 they have 
been making payments of only the interest, as they consider their mortgage should be 
conducted on an interest-only basis, not capital repayment. As a result, substantial arrears 
have accrued.
On 10 February 2022 an ombudsman issued a final decision on a complaint raised by 
Mr and Mrs M. The complaint was that, during a period of financial difficulty, NatWest had 
failed to treat them fairly by not switching their mortgage onto an interest-only basis.
In his final decision the ombudsman found that in October 2019 NatWest had agreed to 
accept reduced payments to the mortgage for a couple of months. 
The ombudsman also said:
Ive thought about whether NatWest acted unreasonably by not switching the 
mortgage to an interest only basis once this was mentioned in February 2020.
There seems to have been some miscommunication over how an application would 
need to be made, with the relationship managers at NatWest saying Mr and Mrs M 
needed to contact a mortgage adviser. But Mr and Mrs M said they were referred 
back to the relationship managers. This breakdown in communication is unfortunate. 
But ultimately, I cant see that a formal application was made for this change to the 
mortgage to take place. 
NatWest has said that changing the mortgage to an interest only basis wouldve 
involved a new mortgage application and a full assessment of the circumstances, 
including affordability and the intended repayment vehicle. I think this is reasonable. 
And I dont think were any grounds, in the circumstances of this request, on which 
NatWest ought to have set aside its usual lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs M have said they think they meet the criteria NatWest set out on its 
website about interest only mortgages. And theyve continued to make payments 
equivalent to those required on an interest only basis since the dispute began. So, 
they believe the switch shouldve been made. But I dont agree.
As Ive said, I think it is reasonable that NatWest would undertake a full mortgage
assessment  something that has not happened. And things NatWest wouldve 
needed to consider when looking at an application would not solely be limited to the 
outline conditions on its website. These were likely to include whether the mortgage 
was up to date  which it wasnt  and plans for addressing this  which there werent 
at the time with the previous arrangement having been broken. As well as an 
assessment of the plan to repay the mortgage and whether this was acceptable.
While Mr and Mrs M have said they think they meet the criteria, as Ive mentioned, 
despite several requests by NatWest for evidence to support things Mr and Mrs M 
have said about their finances, information has not been forthcoming. I acknowledge 
Mr and Mrs M have been making payments  albeit without the change having been 
agreed. But NatWest has to ensure it acts responsibly. And making payments to the 
mortgage doesnt mean that it is affordable to do so over the longer term or that 
Mr and Mrs M would satisfy all of NatWests criteria around affordability.
So, I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably by not switching the mortgage to 
an interest only basis. I dont think it needed to do this without a proper assessment. 
And it hasnt been given the opportunity to carry one out.
Mr and Mrs M have paid less than the contractual monthly repayments since 
March 2020. I understand theyve done this as theyve said they wanted to switch the 
mortgage to an interest only basis, so have paid an equivalent amount. But that 
change has not been agreed. So, the payments were less than contractually 
required. As a result, I think NatWest acted fairly by recording information with credit 
reference agencies to reflect this.
Mr and Mrs M have also said that their interest rate has increased, as a result of their
previous interest rate deal ending. But I havent seen anything that leads me to think 
the increase was not in line with the mortgage agreement.
Taking everything into account, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how it has handled Mr and Mrs Ms accounts.
Moving forward, I understand there is now a significant arrears balance on the 
mortgage. And NatWest is considering further recovery action, via the courts. I would 
remind NatWest that possession proceedings should be a last resort. I can 
understand why it thinks there is now no alternative. As there has been little 
engagement for over a year and the arrears balance is now significant.I do think though at least some of the deterioration in the overall position has been 
due to both parties awaiting the outcome of this complaint. Before proceeding with 
legal action, Id expect NatWest to contact Mr and Mrs M, to see if there any 
remaining alternative options now available. I appreciate these may be limited. But I 
think they should be explored. Id add though that, Mr and Mrs M would also need to 
engage with NatWest and importantly provide evidence, when requested, to support 
any suggested plans. And if this is not forthcoming, I think NatWest would fairly be 
entitled to decide how to pursue the matter further.
What has happened since the ombudsmans decision on 10 February 2022 is that an 
application was made by Mr and Mrs M for their mortgage to be switched to interest-only. 
However, after underwriters considered the application it was declined, not just because of 
the substantial arrears on the mortgage (and for which Mr and Mrs M had no repayment 
strategy), but because of other adverse credit information. The application therefore didnt 
meet NatWests lending criteria and the bank declined it.
Mr and Mrs M raised another complaint, because they think NatWest has treated them 
unfairly. Mr and Mrs M said that they have attempted to engage with NatWest about the 
mortgage since the previous ombudsmans decision. Mr and Mrs M said theyve paid interest 
in accordance with NatWests interest-only product since March 2020, and have been forced 
to be on SVR. Mr and Mrs M considered NatWest had failed to act in accordance with 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines to treat them fairly or give them a reasonable 
timescale to repay the mortgage.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that NatWest had given fair consideration to the application to 
switch the mortgage to interest-only, and that the bank was entitled to decline the request.
Mr and Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. Theyve 
reiterated some further points, which I summarise below:
NatWest has failed to engage with them in any constructive way, for more than four 
years;
they are yet to have a dialogue with NatWest that will comply with the 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) 13 (assisting 
customers in arrears);
they have set out a payment proposal to NatWest on 4 September 2023 but have had no 
reply to date;
NatWest began possession proceedings while Mr and Mrs M were still within the 
six-month window to bring their complaint to our service. (NatWest has currently put its 
legal action on hold, pending the outcome of this complaint);
the investigators findings arent supported by any evidence and must be overturned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain at the outset that I am not looking at anything that the previous ombudsman 
decided in his decision of 10 February 2022. I have read his decision and I agree with his 
conclusion that NatWest had not agreed to switch the mortgage to interest-only and so 
Mr and Mrs Ms decision to pay only the interest has resulted in substantial arrears. It is simply not up to borrowers unilaterally to vary the terms of their mortgage contract, so this 
mortgage is, and always has been, a capital repayment mortgage.
NatWest is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that NatWest makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, 
and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for 
NatWests own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Im satisfied that, since the ombudsmans decision, NatWest has considered an application 
to switch the mortgage to interest-only. Mr and Mrs M say that they met the income and 
loan-to-value ratio (LTV) criteria for this to be done. However, those are not the only criteria 
NatWest needs to consider. 
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) 
carried out by the FCA which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a 
series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to act 
more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this.
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
In this case, a switch from capital repayment to interest-only is considered a material change 
to the mortgage, and so Im satisfied NatWest was allowed to carry out an affordability 
assessment and to apply its lending criteria to the application. In addition, the very 
substantial arrears on the mortgage are also a material factor, because the balance on the 
account is much higher than it would have been if all payments had been made in full and on 
time in accordance with the terms of the mortgage contract to which Mr and Mrs M had 
agreed to be bound.  
NatWest has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. The bank has explained that Mr and Mrs Ms 
credit files show substantial adverse credit information registered against them  which I 
confirm is unrelated to the mortgage arrears. After considering this information, Im satisfied 
that NatWest reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, 
including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Ms specific 
circumstances. 
Given this, Im satisfied that NatWest gave fair consideration to this application and so 
legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when reaching its decision. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that NatWest has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Im not persuaded that NatWest was obliged to agree the switch to interest-only in the best 
interests of Mr and Mrs M; they do not appear to have any strategy for repaying the 
mortgage arrears over the remaining term of the mortgage, and again this is a factor which is 
material to affordability.
Im also not persuaded NatWest has failed to follow either MCOB 13 (quoted by 
Mr and Mrs M) or the obligations under the Mortgage Charter (which is a voluntary code 
most mortgage lenders have signed up to in order to help borrowers in financial difficulty). 
The Mortgage Charter is to help borrowers who are up-to-date with payments but are 
struggling with the cost of living. However, Mr and Mrs M are substantially in arrears with 
their repayments.
MCOB allows a lender to switch borrowers to interest-only on a temporary basis in order to 
help during short-term financial difficulties. There is no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial difficulties are temporary, and, in any event, they have unilaterally only been paying 
interest for the last four years, in breach of the capital repayment mortgage contract.
In relation to other alleged breaches of MCOB, Mr and Mrs M say that NatWest hasnt 
considered a term extension, that its decision to take legal action is unreasonable while 
there are so many unexplored options, and that MCOB provides that they should be given 
sufficient time to sell the property.
Mr and Mrs M have made the following proposals to NatWests solicitors. 
1. convert the mortgage to interest-only and they agree to sell the property before the 
age of 70 (which Mr and Mrs M incorrectly claim is the existing NatWest product); 
or
2. extend the mortgage term on a capital and interest repayment basis so they pay it off 
at £5,000 per month.
However, Mr and Mrs M havent applied for a term extension, and to be clear, I wouldnt 
expect NatWest to put matters on hold if they decided to do so. Thats because the court has 
powers to grant a suspended possession order on the basis of payment of the current 
monthly instalment, plus an amount off the arrears. In the event the matter proceeds to a 
court hearing, Mr and Mrs M would then be able to put any payment proposals to the court.  
However, a term extension on a capital repayment basis with Mr and Mrs M paying only 
£5,000 per month doesnt take into consideration interest rate fluctuations. In addition, a 
term extension would require NatWest to consider affordability, given that this is a material 
change to the contract. 
The adverse credit NatWest noted on Mr and Mrs Ms credit files on their previous 
application for an interest-only mortgage would therefore also have a bearing on any 
application for a term extension. (In this regard, it is always open to Mr and Mrs M to obtain 
copies of their own credit files from any of the credit reference agencies, if they want to know 
what information is recorded on these.)
NatWest isnt obliged to wait until six months after the final response letter before starting 
legal action. Nor is the bank obliged to put matters on hold while we look at a complaint. 
Although lenders will usually agree to do so, they dont have to, and we cant force them to. 
If we had that power, it could also create the potential risk of borrowers in arrears bringing 
complaints to us with the deliberate intention of halting court action that the lender is legitimately entitled to take. I do not wish to alarm Mr and Mrs M, but I would not want them 
to be under any misunderstanding that we would tell NatWest that it must suspend any 
recovery action in the event of a new complaint being raised.
Mr and Mrs M say that NatWest hasnt made reasonable efforts to reach an agreement over 
how Mr and Mrs M will pay any shortfall. But, from what theyve told us, Mr and Mrs Ms 
position is that there are no arrears, that these are simply a technicality because they 
consider their mortgage to be interest-only. In the face of the steadfastness of this mistaken 
belief, there has been no basis on which Mr and Mrs M have been open to addressing 
repayment of the mortgage arrears, until their recent request to extend the term on a capital 
repayment basis and to pay £5,000 per month, without any evidence in support of how this 
would be affordable, or how they would pay off the very substantial arrears that have 
accrued over the last four years.
Overall, Im not persuaded NatWest has acted unreasonably or unfairly  either in its 
decision to decline to switch the mortgage to interest-only, or in considering any other 
options to recover the very substantial arrears owed to the bank.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for. I can see from what theyve told 
us that Mr and Mrs M believe their mortgage is interest-only, in the face of all the evidence to 
the contrary. Im not persuaded that NatWest is responsible for Mr and Mrs M holding this 
mistaken belief, because the bank has always been very clear that this is a capital 
repayment mortgage. It would be remiss of me if I did not remind Mr and Mrs M that 
NatWest is likely to recommence legal action in the absence of firm proposals, supported by 
evidence, to repay the arrears within a reasonable period of time. 
However, the mortgage isnt subject to any interest-rate product, and so Mr and Mrs M are 
free, if they wish to do so, to arrange a new mortgage with another lender, as there will be no 
early repayment charge on redemption of the mortgage to NatWest. If, as Mr and Mrs M say, 
they meet income, LTV and repayment strategy criteria for a new interest-only mortgage, 
then, absent any other factors that might affect a new mortgage application (such as adverse 
information on their credit files), they should have no difficulty in arranging a new mortgage 
with a lender whose account administration might be more to their liking. It might help 
Mr and Mrs M in this regard to speak to an independent financial adviser. They can find 
details of IFAs convenient to them via the FCA website at: https://fca.org.uk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman