DRN-2776173
The complaint
Mr M is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC 
complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) provided unsuitable advice. They say that Mr M was 
an inexperienced investor and should have been told to pay off a business loan before 
investing.
What happened
Mr M met with an advisor from Lloyds in April 2000 to get advice on savings. A fact find was 
conducted by the adviser who recommended Mr M to invest £100 a month into an ISA. The 
ISA was invested into the UK Growth Fund.
Mr M surrendered the ISA in August 2001 as he was not happy with the performance. Mr M 
had paid £1,500 into the ISA and received proceeds of £1,366 which showed a loss of £143.
The CMC complained to Lloyds in May 2020. They said that the level of risk was too high as 
Mr M was an investor who had previously not invested. They also said that as Mr M had a 
significant liability from a business mortgage, he would have been better advised to make 
overpayments to reduce the loan.
Lloyds replied on 5 June 2020. Lloyds didnt think they had done anything wrong and didnt 
uphold the complaint. They said that the advisers recommendations were suitable for Mr M. 
They said that Mr M had previously invested into a PEP and had some investment 
experience. Lloyds said that the fact find was a review of Mr Ms personal circumstances and 
that they had not reviewed Mr Ms business affairs as this would have been carried out when 
the business mortgage application was submitted.
Unhappy with Lloyds decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators investigated the complaint. The investigator agreed with Lloyds and didnt think 
that they had done anything wrong. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC has asked for an ombudsman to look at their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much of the same reasons and I wont be upholding the complaint. I think that there are two 
main areas that are central to the complaint and I will cover these off in turn.
Recommendations were too risky 
In their submission to the service, the CMC say that the recommended investment was too 
risky as Mr M was an inexperienced investor. I have looked at what Lloyds have said in their 
final decision letter to Mr M.
Lloyds said that Mr M had invested previously into a PEP and had investment experience. It 
is generally accepted that previous investment indicates experience, so I am not persuaded 
that Mr M was an inexperienced investor.
I have also looked at Mr Ms attitude to risk. Mr M said that he had a medium attitude to risk. 
The fact sheet for the UK Growth fund where Mr M had invested is classed as medium risk 
so is in line with Mr Ms stated attitude to risk.
Having reviewed the information available to me, I think that the recommendation made by 
the adviser was suitable for Mr Ms personal circumstances and Im not going to ask them to 
do anything else.
Unsuitable advice 
In their submission to the service, the CMC have said that Mr M had a significant liability 
from a business mortgage that he and his wife had taken out. The CMC have said that Mr M 
should have been advised to make overpayments to the business mortgage rather than 
invest into the ISA.
I have looked at the fact find that was conducted by the advisor and Mr Ms business 
liabilities was noted with the following statement:
The outstanding loan was taken out to pay for the pub where Mr M worked. The repayments 
were taken from their business takings and not from their personal drawings.
Lloyds said in their final decision to Mr M that the advice provided was based on Mr Ms 
personal circumstances and did not provide Mr M with business advice. They said their 
records showed that the loan was taken out to buy pub premises and repayments were 
made from business takings. They said that making overpayments might not have been 
appropriate for Mr Ms circumstances at the time.
I have considered what Lloyds and the CMC have said about the business mortgage. I think 
that Mr M was looking for advice to save from his personal finances and not in relation to his 
business. I think that the adviser had information about Mr Ms personal outgoing and 
liabilities and gave advice based on this. The fact that the business mortgage was 
specifically noted within the fact find shows that the adviser was aware.
The CMC have said that they dont see the relevance that the business loan was funded by 
business income. I think it is relevant and the adviser was looking at Mr Ms personal 
circumstances when the recommendation was made.
Mr M had savings so I dont have any concerns that Mr M could not afford to invest. I think 
the recommendation was suitable and in line with Mr Ms personal circumstances so Im not 
going to ask Lloyds to do anything else.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman