DRN-3443273
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Co-Operative Bank Plc failed to protect his account and allowed
his security details to be changed. He also complains how they handled the subsequent
investigation and that he received poor service.
What happened
Mr W was the victim of an account take over by an unauthorised third party who was able to
impersonate Mr W. This person, who Ill refer to as V, knew sufficient security information to
be able to make payments using Mr Ws credit card and access his online account. V was
able to answer most of Mr Ws banking security questions when challenged by Co-Op staff.
The Co-Ops security system blocked several attempts to use the card and on one occasion,
Mr W received a text notification about a transaction and asked him if hed made it, which Mr
W replied No to. It later transpired that this payment was released by the Co-Op when V
called them and was able to pass security. During the call V was able to change the
password on the account.
A short while later, V called back to the same call handler after his attempts to make
payments was again stopped by the banks security system. This time, V was unable to
answer one of the questions posed to him but was able to answer additional questions and
this satisfied the Co-Op that the caller was genuine and released the payments. V again
changed more security information.
Later that day, V called the Co-Op to say hed made an online payment which hadnt been
received by his associate. The Co-Op call handler challenged V about the account and his
knowledge. V became hostile when he refused to answer a question and the call handler
told him she believed he wasnt the genuine account holder. The account and cards were
blocked, preventing further use.
Mr W was unaware at this point of what had happened until the next day when he tried to
use his card which was declined. He contacted the Co-Op to find out the problem and after a
discussion with other Co-Op colleagues who were suspicious of the call, asked Mr W to
attend the nearest branch with his identification. Mr W explained that it was difficult to get to
the branch, but the call handler insisted and advised him that his cards wont work until the
situation is sorted out. Mr W was told that there would be notes on the system and the staff
would know about it so there was no need to make an appointment.
Mr W travelled to the branch where the staff were unaware of the situation. There were
numerous calls with other staff at a different office and Mr W later said that he was
concerned about how the visit was handled considering it was in the middle of the covid
epidemic. Mr W said he was in a public location with other people passing and there didnt
appear to be any additional health arrangements in place. Mr W was critical of the visit and
later complained that he was told conflicting information about what had happened to his
account.
The Co-Op refunded all the disputed transactions and wrote to Mr Ws wife about the
situation. Mr W explained that the letter was wrongly addressed and contained incorrect
information. The Co-Op later accepted this was sent in error. Mr W remained unhappy with
how the situation had been handled and complained. He asked the Co-Op for details of the
conversations with V to understand what private security details he knew. He also wanted to
know why he wasnt notified about the fraudulent use of his account and only found out
when he couldnt use his cards. Mr W was critical about the need to visit the branch and how
it was handled, he referred to the letter that had been sent to his wife and wanted to know if
anything derogatory had been added to his account because of the disputed transactions.
The Co-Op looked into the complaint and accepted some of Mr Ws points but didnt agree
that theyd made any errors when they allowed his details to be changed or failed to tell him
about the problem on his account. They wouldnt provide details of the conversations with V
and thought their request for Mr W to attend the branch was reasonable. The Co-Ops final
response letter didnt include what had happened during one of the calls when V was able to
change some details having failed an earlier security question. The Co-Op confirmed that all
their records about the issue had been updated to properly reflect that Mr W was a victim
and nothing derogatory was contained in their records. The Co-Op paid £75 for the poor
service theyd provided.
Mr W remained unsatisfied with how theyd handled the situation and brought his complaint
to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review. Mr W explained that hed
experienced stress, frustration, sleepless nights and general inconvenience following the
impersonation by V and how the Co-Op had handled it. Mr Ws complaint was looked into by
one of our investigators who thought the Co-Ops response was appropriate and didnt think
they should have informed Mr W about the block on his account, or reveal the content of the
calls with V. He didnt uphold the point about attending the branch and confirmed that the
records concerning the incident had since been updated to accurately reflect what had
happened.
Mr W disagreed and wanted a further review of his complaint, adding several additional
points which Ive summarised as:
The Co-Ops protocols were unsatisfactory.
 They provided conflicting information to Mr W throughout the complaint.
Mr W didnt accept the reasoning given by the bank for allowing his account details to
be changed.
He should have been notified about the problems with his account.
The Co-Op should have used an alternative means to identify him without travelling
to the branch.
Mr W was treated with suspicion by the Co-Op.
Mr W believed the Co-Op were in breach of data protection regulations.
Mr Ws complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My focus here is on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this and it
reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the
right outcome.Mr W contributed numerous points about the conduct of the Co-Op during his complaint and
Ill deal with them under broad headings. Ill first address the common ground between the
two parties where its agreed that Mr W was the victim of an account take over through an
impersonation of Mr W that used security knowledge to access both his cards and account.
The Co-Op accepted that theyd let Mr W down with the length of their investigation, the
production of a letter to Mr Ws wife, the impression they gave that the complaint had been
finalised when it had not and that theyd delayed the reactivation of Mr Ws cards.
The main areas of concern are:
Security and notification.
The Co-Op argued that their systems had worked properly because they identified
suspicious activity and that the payments were only released when the caller, V ,had
completed satisfactory security up until the point he tried to transfer funds out of the account.
Ive listened closely to the calls between V and various call handlers and whats apparent to
me is that V knew sufficient security information to satisfy some of the Co-Ops questions,
but not all of them. When V first called, it was because the strong customer authentication
(SCA) had stopped the payment. During the call, V was able to give certain information that
satisfied the call handlers that he was the genuine account holder and they allowed him to
reset a password. V was also calling in from an unidentified mobile telephone number.
The next call was because the SCA had again stopped the payment and V called back and
spoke to the same call handler. V couldnt answer a particular security question and was
taken through other questions which he could answer. The payments were released, and V
was able to change details on the account.
The third occasion when V called that day was because hed managed to get into Mr Ws
online account and attempted a transfer which was stopped by the internal systems. This
time, he spoke with a different call handler who was more challenging about who the caller
was and asked a question that the genuine Mr W would know but V didnt. At that point the
account was blocked, and V was told they didnt believe he was genuine.
I do think that the original call handler was manipulated by V. Listening to the questions that
V was asked, I dont think they were that difficult for an imposter to anticipate the answer to 
especially someone who clearly had access to some of Mr Ws private information. But, V
couldnt answer some very basic information that Id expect an account holder to know about
himself. Thats because one of the answers is a very specific memory for Mr W that would
be highly unlikely to be known by anyone else but him or his close family. V didnt know the
answer to this but was allowed to change it when hed answered some other basic
information. V was also provided with the original answer by the call handler. I appreciate its
easy to look back and comment on what should have happened, but I think the picture that
was being presented to the Co-Op was suspicious from the very start, taking into account
the SCA issues and the unregistered mobile number that V was using.
Mr W couldnt understand why he wasnt contacted when it became apparent to the Co-Op
that there had been an imposter accessing his account. Mr W only found out when his card
was declined the following day. During the last call with V, he was told the Co-Op didnt
believe he was the genuine account holder, so at that point I dont think there was any
particular risk to trying to get in touch with Mr W to tell him that his account security had
been breached.There were multiple lines of communication that could have been used to notify him about
what had happened, and Im surprised this wasnt attempted. The Co-Op told Mr W that they
couldnt advise him due to the risk of tipping off, which is related to money laundering
legislation. Whilst I understand the Co-Ops position, theyd already told V that they didnt
believe he was genuine, so there was little risk to notifying the genuine Mr W about what had
gone on. I appreciate there was an imposter in the mix and the Co-Op were unsure about
the mobile phone number Mr W called in because they couldnt be certain it was genuine
(because the number can be manipulated), but Mr W had a landline and a home address
which had been registered for several years which could easily have been used to get in
touch.
The Co-Op couldnt know what other risks Mr W was exposed to by V. Whilst Im not aware
that any other attempts to use his identity resulted from the lack of notification, the Co-Op
couldnt know that was the case at the time. So, I think they should have advised Mr W that
his account was blocked because of suspicious activity and then dealt with the situation
proactively rather than letting Mr W stumble across the problem when his card was declined.
Mr W also wanted to understand what had been revealed and I think his request was a
reasonable one. Im sure that most people in the same situation, would want to know what a
fraudster knew about them. Mr W needed to understand his exposure and assess whether
other financial products or account security needed to be changed. I can understand why the
Co-Op didnt want to reveal the actual content of the calls themselves, but Im currently
intending to instruct them to reveal the specific security questions covered with V so Mr W
can assess what information was known to V at that time.
Branch Visit
Once the Co-Op understood that there was likely an imposter using Mr Ws account, they
had no real choice but to block all the access to protect the remaining funds and I think this
was a reasonable action for them to take. The Co-Op then wanted Mr W to attend the
branch to deal with the issue of identification, which is a typical way for banks to confirm
theyre dealing with the correct person. Mr W was reluctant to attend the branch because he
lived outside the city and asked if there was an alternative way this could be achieved. He
was told that he still had to attend, which he did.
Mr W is critical of the way the visit was handled and how the Co-Op handled the covid
protocols. He later explained that his wife was shielding at the time and there was an
increased health risk because of how the visit was handled. But, Mr W didnt inform the Co-
Op about the shielding in his phone call prior to the visit, just that hed rather not come in. If
the Co-Op were unaware there were specific health reasons then its difficult to criticise them
for asking Mr W to attend the branch in person.
There are notes that indicate private rooms were available if Mr W had requested them, but
from his explanation, he was left in a largely public area and had to use a phone that was
handled by other people whilst sat across a desk for an hour without and screens in place. It
does raise questions about how the visit was carried out both in relation to the health
protocols and the discretion required when discussing such sensitive matters with other
people present. I dont think its for the customer to ask for a private room as the
circumstances were no doubt stressful enough for Mr W. I cant say what specific actions
were taken by the Co-Op about health planning during the visit, but it left Mr W stressed by
how it was handled.
It's apparent from Mr Ws testimony that he believed he was given conflicting information
about what exactly had gone on with his account and the actions of V. The situation was
indeed complicated, but I dont think at the point of his visit the whole story was wellunderstood. I can appreciate Mr Ws frustration at the differing stories he was given, but
hopefully the events have now become clearer for him.
Mr W supplied a document from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that was issued to all
banks in March 2020 and details alternative ways to carry out identity verification of
customers due to restrictions on movement brought about by the covid pandemic. Ive
thought about what the situation was at the time of the block on the account and the Co-Op
were concerned about the genuine identity of the account user.
I dont think Mr W was given much choice about attending the branch as he was told during
the call that unless he attended, his cards wouldnt work. I think the Co-Op could have given
better service at that point and listened to his concerns  but I think the previous fraudulent
calls had affected how they handled Mr Ws call the next day.
The Co-Ops approach to Mr W.
Mr W has explained he was told by Co-Op staff members that the information obtained by V
could only have come from him. Mr W felt that he was under suspicion and that the Co-Op
were hostile towards him.
The Co-Op explained that they carried out a fraud investigation resulting from the
unauthorised access to Mr Ws account and the questions they asked were a normal part of
the process.
Ive listened to the calls that the Co-Op supplied and read the letters that they sent to Mr W.
What I couldnt consider was the interaction at the branch because theres no
comprehensive record of what happened. I do appreciate both partys positions here, that Mr
W felt his treatment was hostile and the Co-Op needed to understand what had happened.
I would expect the Co-Op to carry out a thorough review of what happened, including
speaking with Mr W about his understanding of the events. I cant say that the Co-Op treated
Mr W with suspicion because theres no direct evidence that points to that, but I appreciate
that was his perception of how the Co-Op approached their investigation. Its important for
the Co-Op to be mindful of how their investigation was perceived by Mr W, when he was the
victim of this event.
Data breach
Mr W wanted to raise additional issues concerning suspected data breaches. When he first
brought his complaint to our service, this wasnt a specific part of his complaint, nor was it
investigated by the Co-Op in Mr Ws original complaint. Im unable to address the specific
data protection issues because theres been no corresponding complaint brought to the Co-
Op about it. If Mr W wishes, he can raise it as a new complaint with the Co-Op and if he
remains unhappy, he can raise it with our service.
I have covered the substantive issues concerning the movement of security information
between V and the Co-Op, so I hope Mr W has a better understanding of what went on at
the time.
In summary, Mr W was the victim of an account take over after V impersonated him. The Co-
Op refunded all the unauthorised transactions. They accepted theyd let Mr W down when
the investigated the matter and made some errors when communicating with him. The Co-
Op also accepted theyd given Mr W poor customer service and delayed the reactivation of
his cards - they paid him £75.00 to recognise this.I agree that the Co-Ops payment was reasonable for the issues they accepted, but I also
think they let Mr W down when they refused to reveal the specific information V used to
breach security, failed to notify him about the breach and didnt consider alternatives to the
branch visit to carry out identification.
I provisionally decided that:
My provisional decision is that Im currently intending to uphold this complaint in part, and Ill
be instructing the Co-Op to pay Mr W an additional £125.00 for the increased stress and
inconvenience caused by the Co-Ops handling of the situation. I also intend to instruct the
Co-Op to reveal the specific security questions that V answered to enable Mr W to fully
assess his security.
I invited Mr W and the Co-Op to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. The Co-Op didnt respond, and Mr W 
accepted my decision, although he made several clarifications.
I dont think I need to identify each individual comment made by Mr W as it hasnt changed 
my overall decision and Mr W has accepted my provisional recommendations. Im grateful to 
him for clarifying certain aspects and Ive commented further on what I think are the relevant 
points.
Specifically, Mr W wanted to clarify that he didnt consider staff at the Glasgow branch were 
hostile towards him and described their treatment of him as professional and courteous. It 
was the way he felt he was being treated related when he was first trying to understand what 
had happened with his account.
Mr W also wanted to confirm he welcomed a thorough investigation by the Co-Op and had 
no issues with his accounts being blocked or his cards frozen. He thought the banks 
balance in dealing with him changed once it was identified there was fraud on the account, 
believing that the Co-Ops emphasis was more on the fraud than on Mr Ws as a customer 
and a victim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Mr W accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
Im glad to be given the opportunity to clarify certain aspects concerning Mr Ws perspective 
on the Co-Ops actions. In particular, to recognise that whilst he was critical of how the Co-
Op dealt with his issue, he also wanted to explain that on a personal level, the branch staff 
treated him in a professional and courteous manner when he made his visit. 
He also wanted to confirm he had no issues with the need to protect his account, that the 
Co-Op needed to conduct a thorough investigation and to block his card/account in order to 
protect him. He was only critical of the way they went about it  which Ive already 
commented on.Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, the Co-Op are instructed to make a payment of an additional 
£125 to Mr W for the increased stress and inconvenience caused by their handling of the 
situation. Also, to reveal the specific security questions answered by V to enable Mr W to 
fully assess his security.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc and 
instruct them to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman