DRN-3825544
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax charged him for a valuation 
when he wanted to borrow more on his mortgage, but then returned a nil valuation. Mr D 
said Halifax already knew about the underlying issue, so he wanted the valuation fee back.
What happened
Mr D told us he lives above a public house (pub). He said he bought the property with a 
mortgage from Halifax, and he now wanted to take out more lending. Halifax told him hed 
need a new valuation, so he paid £100 for that.
Mr D said he wasnt told that Halifax had changed its policy to not offer mortgages to flats
which are above a pub. But he said Halifax already knew this about his flat, so it should have
just told him it wouldnt be able to lend him any more. It shouldnt have charged him the
valuation fee, when it knew it wouldnt be able to lend. Mr D wanted this money back.
Halifax said that when someone wants to borrow more money, then it will ask for a
professional valuation on the property. Halifax said all the valuers and Surveyors it asks to
provide it with valuations are registered with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
(RICS). So it thinks these people have appropriate professional qualifications, and it relies
on their judgment.
Halifax said there was no appeal against this decision, and it wouldnt give Mr D his money
back. It said that the mortgage application documentation Mr D received explained that the
valuation fee is non-refundable.
When this complaint came to our service, Halifax said it hadnt previously known that Mr Ds
flat was above a pub. It said that its lending criteria do change. One of the criteria is that
properties have to be readily sellable. Its up to the valuer to reach a judgment on that, based
on their specialist knowledge. And in this case, the valuer had concluded that the property
was significantly impacted by being above a public house and restaurant, and adjacent to
another public house and restaurant, which significantly limits demand and saleability. So
Halifax still didnt think it should give this money back.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the valuer thought the
property wasnt suitable for mortgage lending. She said Halifax instructs a valuer as it
doesnt have the expertise to value the property itself. And it had instructed a properly
qualified person. She said the decision was made by the valuer, and Halifax relied on that.
She didnt think that was unfair.
Mr D didnt agree. He said Halifax knew he lived over a pub, and it would lend to clients who
were buying properties like his until fairly recently. He said Halifax had since changed its
policy, and would no longer lend on properties above public houses. So he felt Halifax
should have warned him about this, before he paid the valuation fee.
Mr D said Halifax knew his property was above a pub, because documentation sent to it at
the time of his purchase told it this. Halifax said it didnt know that, and it hadnt received the
documentation Mr D referred to. But it also said something else, which was that the policy
which affected Mr D now hadnt changed since hed bought his flat. It set out this policy for
us. It said it appreciated that this was frustrating for Mr D, but it wouldnt refund the fee he
had paid.
Mr D wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think Halifax has to refund Mr Ds valuation fee. But I do think it has to pay him 
some compensation. Ill explain why I think that.
At first, Halifax suggested its lending criteria had changed over time, which is why Mr D
received a nil valuation for his home now. Halifax says now that this was only ever a
possible explanation, but its internal notes show it suggested to Mr D that this could be 
the reason he received a nil valuation recently. It didnt offer any other explanation to Mr 
D as to why its view had changed in this way. So I think it is understandable that Mr D 
thought Halifaxs policy had changed, and that he felt Halifax could have warned him 
about this.
But when our service asked for further information about this, Halifax said the criteria 
hadnt changed, and that there isnt a specific criterion saying it wont lend on properties 
above a pub. It does ask valuers to reach a view on whether the property is readily 
sellable, but it did that when Mr D originally bought his flat too. So it now seems that this 
valuer has just reached a different conclusion on whether Mr Ds flat is readily sellable, 
to the view reached by Halifaxs last valuer at the time Mr D made his purchase.
I dont know why this assessment has changed. Im not an expert on the property 
market, and demand for flats such as Mr Ds. But more importantly, nor is Halifax. So it 
isnt unfair for Halifax to rely on a valuers professional opinion, even where that opinion 
is different to one expressed before. I do think its reasonable for Halifax to rely on the 
most recent professional opinion it has commissioned.
And it doesnt seem as if Halifax could reasonably have been expected to know that this
valuer would take such a different view to the previous valuer. If Halifax did have a 
policy which says that it wont lend on properties above a pub, then Id have needed to 
think about whether Halifax was aware that this might affect Mr D, and ought to have 
alerted Mr D to this. (Mr D says Halifax did know his flat was above a pub, Halifax says 
it didnt.) 
But I dont think that has ended up being relevant here, because I dont think Halifax 
ever did have a policy that said it wouldnt lend on flats above pubs. And I dont think the 
relevant part of the policy it does have has changed since Mr D bought his flat. As Ive 
noted, a different valuer, some time later, has just reached a different view.
I do, however, think that this complaint has been significantly prolonged for Mr D 
because Halifax suggested to him that the reason for the change was a change in 
policy. That made Mr D think there was something Halifax could have done to warn him 
he was likely to be turned down for extra lending, before he paid the valuation fee, 
when, as I now understand it, there wasnt. Because of that, I think Halifax should pay Mr D £100 in compensation, for the distress and inconvenience that this prolonged 
complaint has caused him.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have accepted my provisional decision. Mr D said he welcomed it, Halifax said it 
would accept the decision to bring this matter to a close.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman