DRN-3994751
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam. 
Although Mrs P is being represented, for ease of reference, my decision will refer to her only. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In early 2021 Mrs P started communicating with an individual  that Ill refer to as J  on a 
social media website. J told Mrs P that he was foreign military and created a complex story 
in which he needed cash payments to release a portfolio from the country he was currently 
based in. Under the belief this money would be repaid and J saying that he couldnt wait to 
be with her, Mrs P thought she was in love with J and trusted him. Because of this, Mrs P 
followed his instructions and made a significant number of cash withdrawals  between April 
2021 and March 2022 - from her Santander bank account to send to the various recipients J 
provided details of. 
The cash withdrawals totalled about £65,000  with them mostly ranging from £250 up to 
£2,000. The funds for the cash withdrawals came from various sources. This includes 
savings Mrs P held with other banks, additional borrowing with Santander (such as a 
£10,000 loan taken out in July 2021) and further lending with other third parties.
The scam was uncovered when Mrs Ps parents were gifting her some money and, from 
seeing her online banking, found that her account was overdrawn and so questioned her 
about it. Mrs P then visited a Santander branch to report that shed been the victim of a 
romance scam, with the police and Action Fraud also being notified. 
Santander rejected the scam claim. Their letter of 14 May 2022 explained that Mrs P 
authorised the transactions and so they werent liable for any financial loss. And when 
questioned by branch staff about the cash withdrawals, Mrs P said it was for home 
improvements and a holiday. Further, as the cash was mailed to the beneficiary they were 
unable to take any action to attempt recovery. 
Mrs P contacted Santander and queried whether a letter shed previously sent in had been 
considered as part of the claim. After being told by Santander there wasnt any record of it, 
Mrs P uploaded a copy for them to consider. This, and a subsequent letter Mrs P sent 
Santander on 12 June 2022, in short, said:
Shed lost her husband some years ago in the first year of marriage to cancer and 
hadnt had a serious relationship since. Her employment, with variable working 
hours, isnt conducive to a good social life. And the police have confirmed that she 
fits the profile of women that are victims to this type of scam  middle aged, bereaved 
and lonely. This led her to being vulnerable to this type of scam, and it didnt help that 
the scammers cautioned her to talk to no-one, so as to not to compromise the 
operations with [Js] portfolio  thereby showing the scammers were very skilled. 
Its fortunate her parents were able to discover the losses when they did as she was 
on the verge of insolvency. And as well as exhausting her current and savings 
accounts, shed taken out the Santander loan as well as borrowing with other 
lenders. She wasnt however initially honest with her parents when questioned about 
why she was overdrawn. And the biggest challenge to fraudsters is the intervention 
of family and friends, with the fraudsters making every effort to isolate the victim  
manipulating them in such a way to make requests for secrecy to not cause any 
alarm. 
Although Santander say their priority is protecting customers falling victim to fraud or 
scams, and that they train branch staff to help identify when this might be happening, 
they repeatedly missed the signs for her situation. Instead, they simply accepted the 
large credits into the account that were immediately being withdrawn were for home 
improvements. A cursory check wouldve shown a modest salary, a council property 
and a sudden change in account activity  and so Santander shouldve realised 
something was wrong. 
Sending a police officer to check ought to have returned full confirmation that she 
lived in a small council flat and with no evidence of such home improvements. 
Therefore, where was the due diligence?
Santander failed to react when a credit card bill was rejected, and they even allowed 
further borrowing by increasing her overdraft and the £10,000 loan. What appraisals 
were undertaken here?
When the unusual activity was noticed, why didnt Santander freeze her account 
while carrying out proper checks? Instead, Santander froze her accounts without 
warning after the scam had taken place  leading to her debit card being declined 
when trying to make a purchase. 
Why was there no attempt made to discover and warn her family? 
Banks have a duty of care to their customer but Santander failed to protect her. 
Because of this, Santander should refund the losses and the costs of the ensuing 
loans from other lenders (about £8,000)
Santander responded, sending two final response letters dated 8 and 30 June 2022, in 
which they said their position remained the same. Santander explained their branch staff did 
question Mrs P when making the withdrawals and, at times, spoke with her privately to 
highlight their concerns. But despite these scam conversations Mrs P hadnt been honest 
with them when making the cash withdrawals and so, on this basis, they rejected the claim. 
Further, regarding the loan application, theyd reviewed the call and Mrs P explained it was 
for home improvements. As such, they couldnt clear the loan and Mrs P remained liable for 
the outstanding balance. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service but our Investigator didnt 
think Santander had to do anything further. She acknowledged Mrs P had been the victim of 
a romance scam and manipulated by J into sending the cash. But she thought Santander 
had acted reasonably by asking questions about the purpose of the withdrawals (including 
the private conversations) on various occasions, as well as contacting the police in line with 
the Banking Protocol. Our Investigator also didnt think there was anything more Santander couldve done to 
prevent the scam. This was because Mrs P was coached into providing false reasons for the 
withdrawals as well as the purpose of the loan, which she said was for home improvements. 
And it seems Mrs P was fully taken in by the scam and was prepared to conceal the true 
purpose of the cash withdrawals. She said this was evidenced by Mrs P failing to realise she 
was being scammed when the police visited her, and by her not being honest with her 
parents when the situation came to light as she initially said shed lent money to an old 
friend. So, she didnt think there was anything Santander couldve done to have broken the 
spell Mrs P was under. Furthermore, while Mrs P has questioned why Santander didnt 
freeze her account, she wasnt persuaded this wouldve made a difference as shed used 
funds from multiple different lenders. So, she thought it was likely Mrs P wouldve proceeded 
with sending the money via alternative methods. Because of this, she didnt think Santander 
was responsible for Mrs Ps losses. 
Mrs P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, and further to 
the points already raised, she added:
Romance scams are very prevalent and, by their own declaration, Santander is at the 
forefront of banks fighting fraud. Santander therefore must be aware of the methods 
used by the romance fraudsters. And so, they ought to have seen her behaviour was 
entirely consistent with being involved with fraudsters.
Her account had been stable for many years before, suddenly, frequent out of 
character cash withdrawals being made  which were large amounts and often only 
days apart using both ATMs (Automated Teller Machine) and over the counter in 
branch. If, as Santander say, their staff are trained to spot this kind of activity then 
why wasnt effective action taken to prevent it?
Santander have said she wasnt honest with them as to the reason for the 
withdrawals. But a brief examination of her account would show that home 
improvements was an implausible reason for such large and frequent cash 
withdrawals  as her address was a council flat and she had a monthly council direct 
debit for the rent. This too ought to have been discounted by the police visit.
Santander know fraudsters manipulate their victims in such a way that requests for 
secrecy do not cause them to be alarmed and seek to isolate them to avoid 
detection. And it was their skilful manipulation as to why she didnt disclose the full 
facts to the bank or police. So, she questions whether Santander did enough to alert 
her to the possibility of the involvement of fraudsters?
She disagreed that Santander couldnt have done more to protect her from the scam. 
And it was unfair to assume that she wouldve sill gone ahead with the transactions 
via an alternative method  she considered this to be overly speculative. 
The Financial Ombudsman has said firms can be too quick to dismiss refund claims. 
And an Ombudsman ruled that branch staff should have taken the time to ask scam 
victims further questions in a more bespoke and tailored way.  
The effects of this scam have led to an uncertain future and seriously impacted her 
mental health. And she has been left with outstanding loans to pay from a modest 
income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs P has been the victim of a scam. I realise shes lost a significant sum of 
money and I dont underestimate the impact this has had on her. And so, Id like to reassure 
her that Ive read and considered everything shes said in support of her complaint. But Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mrs P but having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as 
our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process withdrawals 
that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Mrs P made the 
withdrawals from her Santander account. I appreciate Mrs P was tricked as she thought J 
was a legitimate person that she was sending money to. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
withdrawals were authorised by Mrs P. Because of this, Santander were expected to 
process them and Mrs P is presumed liable for any subsequent loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Santander to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
transaction to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mrs Ps cash withdrawals were typically for £250 from ATMs to begin with  except for two 
made in branch for £800 each. I wouldnt have expected these withdrawals to have been 
considered unusual enough for Santander to have thought Mrs P was at risk of financial 
harm. In June and early July 2021, Mrs P then started making withdrawals in branch over 
the counter for greater amounts  two for £1,000 and two for £2,000. Santander has shown 
that the reasons for the cash withdrawals were relating to a holiday. So, while these 
withdrawals were for more than Mrs P typically used her account for, I dont think  
considering Mrs P said the funds were for a holiday  there wouldve been enough of a 
reason for Santander to think she was at risk of financial harm. 
After this, Mrs P applied for a £10,000 loan with Santander and, as part of the application, 
she told Santander the funds were for home improvements. I understand Mrs P has 
questioned Santanders decision to approve a loan when she says she was making out of 
character cash withdrawals on a frequent basis. While Ive noted Mrs Ps points in this 
regard, as Ive said, I dont think there was enough reason for Santander to have thought 
she may have been at risk of financial harm at that time. And given Mrs P said the loan was 
for home improvements, that being a different purpose than the cash withdrawals to date, 
Im likewise not persuaded this ought to have been of significant concern to Santander. This 
is because I think its perfectly reasonable to expect that a person may look to both book/go 
on holiday and improve their home around the same time. 
Over the next few months, Mrs P went on to make cash withdrawals between £1,500 and 
£2,000 over the counter in branch. I dont necessarily think these alone wouldve given 
Santander cause for concern as it wouldve been reasonable for them to expect Mrs P to 
have spent the loan funds. However, Ive also considered that during this time Mrs P was 
making a significant amount of cash withdrawals from ATMs as well. And so, looking at her 
collective account usage, I think Mrs Ps activity did start to become unusual around this time 
to a point where I think Santander shouldve thought there was risk of Mrs P being at risk of 
financial harm. I therefore think Santander ought to have taken steps to protect Mrs P from 
this risk.In this case, Im aware Santander did question Mrs P about the reasons for the cash 
withdrawals and even spoke with her privately in branch due to the concerns they had. While 
I cant be sure of exactly what was discussed, because of the influence of J, it seems Mrs P 
didnt disclose the genuine reasons for the cash withdrawals. Instead, she said the reasons 
for the money was relating to a holiday and home improvements (including paying 
decorators and furniture). Because of this, Santander were unable to provide appropriate 
advice or warnings to Mrs P. Whereas, had Santander known Mrs P was sending money to 
J  a person who contacted her on social media and was requesting cash payments to 
release a portfolio  then I think they wouldve identified this as a red flag and taken further 
steps to protect her. 
Mrs P has highlighted the skilful manipulation methods romance scammers use to ensure 
their victims dont disclose the full facts. And that banks, including Santander, must be aware 
of these methods and so should be able to identify when its happening. While I agree banks 
must take steps to protect customers from scams of this nature and should be familiar with 
them, as Mrs P has said, the methods used by scammers can often make this difficult due to 
victims secrecy regarding the genuine transaction reasons. That said, Im satisfied 
Santander didnt simply accept what Mrs P told them on face value as, despite the 
conversations in branch, they took further action to try and protect her by contacting the 
police  which prompted the house visit. I think this was appropriate in the circumstances. 
I think the police visiting Mrs P regarding her account activity ought to have emphasised the 
seriousness of the situation to her. I understand however that Mrs P didnt engage positively 
or openly with the police about the reasons for the cash withdrawals due to the need for 
secrecy and tiredness (as shed been woken after working unsociable hours). Because of 
this, I think Mrs P was sadly very much under the spell of the scammers. And so, 
considering Mrs P continued to hide the true reasons for the withdrawals from the police, I 
find it highly unlikely that she wouldve disclosed them to Santander irrespective of how 
bespoke or tailored their questioning couldve been. Im therefore not persuaded Santander 
couldve uncovered the genuine reasons for Mrs Ps cash withdrawals. 
Id also add that while Ive noted Mrs P says home improvements wasnt a plausible reason 
for the withdrawals given she lived in a rented council property, I disagree. Firstly, I wouldnt 
necessarily have expected Santander to have verified her residential status in consideration 
of a cash withdrawal for home improvement purposes. But, even with this knowledge, I dont 
think Santander could presume a person wouldnt wish to improve their property even if it 
was rented. So, I cant fairly say Santander shouldve known Mrs P was being scammed 
because of this. 
Im aware Mrs P has questioned why Santander didnt freeze her account or attempt to 
contact a family member about her unusual activity. While I appreciate Mrs Ps views here, I 
think Santander acted reasonably  and proportionately  by taking the actions they did 
which includes contacting the police. I also wouldnt have expected Santander, without the 
consent of Mrs P, to have contacted her family or friends due to data protection reasons. 
And, without strong grounds to suspect Mrs P was the victim of a scam, I dont think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Santander to have declined the cash withdrawals or frozen her 
accounts at that time. 
I understand Mrs P feels it is speculative to say that, had Santander declined the 
withdrawals, she wouldve found other means of obtaining the money for J. While I cant be 
entirely sure what wouldve happened in this scenario, Im minded to agree with our 
investigator that this wouldve been most likely. This is because, as Ive explained, I think 
Mrs P was clearly convinced by J and determined to send the money even after being 
questioned by both Santander and the police. Mrs P had also sought borrowing from other lenders to fund the payments during this time. And so, on balance, I think she wouldve 
likewise sourced further funds even if Santander had refused the cash withdrawals. So, I 
dont think her losses are solely attributable to Santander processing the withdrawals Mrs P 
authorised. 
Im sympathetic to Mrs Ps situation and the loss she has suffered.  I realise whats 
happened has affected her both financially and mentally, which Im very sorry to hear. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I think Santander took reasonable steps to try and protect her 
from the scam. Because of this, I dont think Santander is responsible for Mrs Ps loss. It 
follows that I think they acted fairly by not refunding the transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman