DRN-4027049
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont fully reimburse the money he lost as a result of 
a vehicle purchase scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, Mr R fell victim to a vehicle purchase scam after contacting an individual on a 
social media marketplace site. The individual said he was selling a car for his brother. The 
individual gave Mr R an email address which he said was his brothers. The brother told Mr 
R hed moved abroad and was using a transport company to sell the car. Mr R transferred 
£10,200 to what he believed was the transportation company. The car was not delivered and 
all contact with the scammer stopped. Mr R raised concerns with Lloyds. 
Lloyds investigated Mr Rs complaint and refunded 50% of the transaction along with £25 for 
failing to tell him it had made the refund. Mr R remained unhappy and referred his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He felt the refund made by Lloyds was fair as 
he didnt think Mr R had a reasonable basis for belief.
Mr R didnt agree. As the case couldnt be resolved informally  its been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr R was the victim of a scam and I can understand why he wants to do all 
he can to recover the money he has lost. Hes lost a lot of money through no fault of his own. 
But that alone doesnt mean that Lloyds must reimburse him. Its important to emphasise 
that Im only considering whether Lloyds, which had no involvement in the scam itself, 
should be held responsible for what happened.
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. Mr R made the 
payment himself. This means that it was an authorised payment, even though Mr R did not 
intend for this money to go to fraudsters. 
The CRM Code 
But Lloyds is a signatory of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. The CRM 
Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One exception is whether Mr R made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom Mr R transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am persuaded the concerns Lloyds has raised 
about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr R was making are enough to support its position 
not to fully refund Mr R under the CRM Code for the payment he made. 
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Mr R did not have 
reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was for genuine goods and that 
the person he was transacting with was a legitimate seller.
Did Mr R have a reasonable basis for belief? 
I need to consider not just whether Mr R believed he was sending money for a car, but 
whether it was reasonable for him to do so.
Ive thought about the steps Mr R took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the 
transaction and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment. This is not a 
finding I have made lightly. 
But the car Mr R wanted to purchase was advertised for sale at £10,200 including delivery to 
his address on the other side of the country. Our investigator obtained an indicative valuation 
of the car based on the exact model and age Mr R believed he was paying for. Those 
evaluations are based on prices at the same time as the scam ie February 2022 - and reflect 
the typical sale price from recognised industry trade guides. 
But, even if I accept a seller might not achieve a price towards the top end of the 
estimated ranges - on balance, Im persuaded that the price the vehicle was advertised for 
was too good to be true (almost half the value) and ought to have raised concerns in and 
of itself. The seller even said hed include delivery. 
Even with reasons, I think Mr R should have been much more sceptical about why an 
individual would be willing to sell this car for almost half its market value. This coupled with 
the fact Mr R was also unable to view the car, (and again I appreciate it was too far away 
to view and Mr R thought he was being given the opportunity to test the car out before 
final transfer of his funds was made to the seller) I wouldve expected Mr R to have been 
more wary of caution. 
There were other signs things were not quite right here. The person selling the car on the 
social media site did not use a real name and perhaps more significantly they had no 
review or ratings as a seller. The transportation company asked Mr R to make a payment 
to a totally different named business. This ought reasonably to have caused concern. 
Ultimately Mr R placed a lot of trust in a stranger. I consider that Mr R ought to have had 
greater concerns about the deal and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of 
scrutiny on his part. Buying a car without viewing it and at a considerable discount was 
always a big risk. I think Mr R should have done more than he did to question the 
arrangement before paying any money. 
Ive taken into account the information Mr R saw online, including emails and documents 
that had been fabricated by the fraudsters. But by not carrying out sufficient checks to 
independently verify the situation when the purported sale price was so far under the true 
value, Im not persuaded Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing the payee was the 
person he was expecting to pay; that the payment was for genuine goods or services; or 
the person with whom Mr R transacted was legitimate.Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the CRM code? 
The CRM code says that, where firms identify scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. Lloyds refunded 50% of the money Mr R lost as it accepted it 
didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code to provide an effective warning. I have 
therefore not considered this point any further. 
Did Lloyds do enough to recover Mr Rs funds?
Ive thought about whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to recover Mr Rs funds once it was 
made aware, he was the victim of a scam. The scam payment was made on 8 February 
2022. Mr R reported the scam to Lloyds on 14 February 2022. Lloyds contacted the 
receiving bank on 15 February 2022. The receiving bank confirmed that no funds remain and 
that funds were completely removed by 10 February 2022. Even if there was a slight delay in 
Lloyds contacting the receiving bank, I dont consider it would have made a difference as the 
funds had been removed before Mr R first notified Lloyds of the scam. This is not unusual as 
fraudsters usually remove funds within hours.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr R. I do accept he has fallen 
victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous scam. Im sorry he has lost 
money and I can understand why he would like to be compensated for all his losses. 
However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation he finds himself in ultimately, I dont 
think he had a reasonable basis for belief. It therefore follows that I dont think that Lloyds 
refusal to fully reimburse Mr R for his losses was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman