DRN-3090450
The complaint
Ms H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wrongly recorded 18 missed 
payments on her credit file. She says this has stopped her getting a new mortgage to allow 
her to downsize, leaving her with an unaffordable mortgage.
What happened
Ms H missed some mortgage payments in late 2018. She says she made payments since 
then and cleared the arrears in 2020. Ms H says her credit report shows she missed 18 
payments. This has stopped her re-mortgage at a better rate. Ms H says Halifax has 
reported incorrect information about her account to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator said the evidence suggested Halifax had reported correct information about 
Ms Hs account to the credit reference agencies, and explained this fairly to Ms H. 
Ms H didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to recordings of Ms Hs calls and I appreciate how upset she is about this 
matter. 
Ms H accepts that she missed some mortgage payments in 2018. She made payments in 
most months after this and cleared the arrears in 2020. Despite this, Ms H says her credit 
report shows 18 missed payments. 
Ms H provided a screen shot of a credit report. This does appear to show missed payments 
in late 2018, all of 2019 and most of 2020. It shows payments as up to date and on time from 
October 2020. 
This report wasnt provided to Ms H by one of the credit reference agencies. It was provided 
by a business that says it offers customers access to their financial data, including their 
credit reports and credit scores. 
When Ms H contact Halifax it agreed that this report didnt look right, but said it hadnt made 
an error. Halifax confirmed that Ms H had been making payments during 2019, although her 
account remained in arrears. It says it reports the total number of missed payments 
outstanding at the end of each month. Halifax provided a summary of what it reported to 
credit reference agencies about Ms Hs account and this supports what it says. I havent 
seen evidence that Halifax reported 18 missed payments to the credit reference agencies. 
Halifax says it reports to three credit reference agencies. It does not report to the business 
that provided the report to Ms H. It seems this business uses information from one of the 
credit reference agencies that Halifax does report to. Our investigator asked Ms H if she was 
able to provide a copy of her credit report from this credit reference agency, and she agreed 
to do so. Ms H provided a copy of the part of the report which shows her mortgage account. 
Ms H didnt send all of the credit report  Ive assumed that green ticks show the account is 
up to date, red dots show the account is in arrears and the red numbers underneath are the 
numbers of months the account is in arrears. 
Having looked at the report, I think its correctly reporting what happened with Ms Hs 
account. For instance, in 2019 the report shows Ms Hs account was in arrears (as it was) 
and gives the number of monthly payments outstanding (one, two or three) for each month. 
This is consistent with the information Halifax says it reports. The report doesnt say Ms H 
missed 18 payments. At most, it shows her arrears were equivalent to four contractual 
monthly payments (in mid-2020) and she cleared her arrears soon after this.  
I hope Ms H feels less worried now shes seen this credit report. I dont know if the business 
that Ms H used to access her credit report made an error, or simply presents arrears 
information in a different way. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly 
find that Halifax made an error.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman