DRN-2973048
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) lost his drivers licence 
and are refusing to reimburse him for a replacement. 
  
What happened
In May 2020 Mr O was attempting to open a bank account with Nationwide. In order to do 
so, Mr O was required to provide proof of his address and photo card identification. 
As the UK was under a government-imposed lockdown due to the Covid19 pandemic, Mr O 
was unable to attend at his local branch to present these documents. So, Mr O contacted 
Nationwide via a social media messaging service, and he was advised to send the 
documents to Nationwide via post. 
Mr O says he put his most recent Council Tax bill and his drivers licence into a pre-paid 
Nationwide envelope, sealed it and sent it off. 19 days later his Council Tax bill was 
returned, but not his drivers licence. Nationwide says it never received Mr Os drivers 
licence. 
Mr O is adamant he sent it. He says he doesnt have it now, and hes had to order a 
replacement. Mr O wants Nationwide to pay to replace his licence.
But Nationwide says that the only item logged on its system was the Council Tax bill. It says 
its logging system is very robust, and its very unlikely an error was made whilst logging the 
contents of the envelope Mr O sent it. It refused to cover the cost of replacing the licence. Mr 
O remains unhappy, so hes made a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked at this and initially the investigator said Nationwide hadnt done 
anything wrong. But after a further review and a conversation with Mr O, the investigator 
changed her mind and asked Nationwide to cover the cost of the replacing his drivers 
licence.
Nationwide dont agree with this, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In a case like this, where there are so many unknowns, I need to decide what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened. 
When Mr O was opening the account, he needed to verify he was who he said he was. 
Usually this would be done in person, in branch, where Mr O wouldve been asked to 
produce identification. But two things prevented this. Covid19 meant that there was 
restricted access to banks in May 2020, and further to this Mr Os partner was pregnant so 
he was restricting his own movements during that time.
On 10 May 2020, Mr O contacted Nationwide via a social media messaging service to ask 
what he should do. And he was advised to send in the required documents via post. 
Mr O says he did this. From the screen shots provided I can see that on 29 May Mr O 
contacted Nationwide again, via the same social media messaging service. He says that his 
Council Tax bill had been returned, but he hadnt received his drivers licence back. The 
agent using the messaging service provided a number for Mr O to call, but two days later he 
messaged again to say he cant get through. The agent explains in a further message how to 
skip the automated section, to get through to a consultant.
Looking at the contact notes provided with the business file, it would seem Mr O did get to 
speak to someone on 1 June 2020. The note is brief, and it says that the agent told Mr O a 
return of documentation can take up to seven days. The next note is from 26 June 2020. 
Nationwide are validating the account, and another request for photo card identification is 
sent to Mr O. 
Theres a further call on 9 July 2020. In this call Mr O requests an extension within which to 
provide identification. He has no drivers licence, as its now missing, and hes reluctant to 
send in his passport, given what he believes happened to his drivers licence. Theres no 
allowance for an extension, although Nationwide do check. There seems to be a lot of 
discussion in this call. And its clear Mr O is reluctant to go to a branch due to the restrictions, 
and hes very reluctant to send in his passport via post. But hes advised that the best option 
is to go to a branch with photo identification. And I can see that his identification was 
validated on that same day, so I can only assume this is what happened.
Mr O states that he put the Council Tax bill and his drivers licence in the same pre-paid and 
fully sealed envelope and sent it in. He says he had a paper licence, and he always carries it 
in his wallet, only taking it out when necessary. He says its not there now. 
I think Mr O genuinely is certain that he put the drivers licence in the envelope. Looking at 
his interactions with Nationwide after the drivers licence went missing, I dont think these are 
the actions of someone who has made a known error. He quite clearly wanted to open the 
account, and its quite clear that his passport is the only remaining identification he has. The 
notes would suggest he is trying his best to find a way to open the account using his 
passport, and that he no longer had a drivers licence available to him. Mr O has also 
provided a receipt dated 18 July 2020 from the DVLA, confirming his application for a 
replacement drivers licence.
However, Nationwide has sent us evidence that the drivers licence wasnt received. 
Nationwide has set out step by step what happens when an original photo card identification 
such as a drivers licence is received at its office. Im not going to set out step by step what 
happens, as there may be a sensitivity around an internal process, and this is a published 
decision. But Im satisfied that there is a process in place, and even though Nationwide 
discourage sending in identification such as passports and drivers licences via post, I can 
see, given the pandemic and the government-imposed restrictions, why posting identification 
was the only option available to Mr O at that time.
However, whereas there is a process in place, it is still quite cumbersome, and if you go 
through it step by step, there is a margin for error. The process is manual and the photo card 
will pass through a number of hands. The card itself isnt scanned. Its photocopied and the 
photocopy is scanned. The actual identity card itself isnt logged, as Nationwide says that in 
normal circumstances actual photo card identification isnt accepted via post. Once a copy is made, the actual photo identification card is placed in a plastic wallet and a post-it note is 
placed on the photo identification card with Mr Os surname on it. 
The reality is that we might never know what happened to Mr Os drivers licence. So, as I 
said above, I can only decide on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. And 
looking at the steps that both parties had to take, whilst in possession of the drivers licence, 
I think the process put in place by Nationwide has more of a margin for error than the simple 
process Mr O was asked to undertake. 
Its not inconceivable that something happened to Mr Os licence within Nationwides 
process. It could be that the drivers licence wasnt incorrectly labelled, or that it was 
scanned onto an incorrect file. The post-it with Mr Os surname on it couldve fallen off, or it 
couldve been batched incorrectly.  So, given the number of factors involved whilst the 
drivers licence was in Nationwides possession, I think, on the balance of probability its 
more likely than not that Mr O sent in the drivers licence as requested, but it was somehow 
misplaced or incorrectly batched/handled whilst in Nationwides care.
Because of this think Nationwide should pay Mr O whatever it cost for him to replace his 
drivers licence. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr O whatever it cost for him to replace his 
drivers licence. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman