DRN-4495485
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited has recorded two motor 
insurance claim he made on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr F says his car was hit from behind on 10 December 2022 but, he was too unwell to make 
an effective claim at the time. This claim was made, along with a second claim, after Mr Fs 
car was hit again in January 2023.
Ultimately, Skyfire wrote Mr Fs car off under the first claim. Mr F says it initially offered him 
£1,030 for the value of his car but he was paid £4,546 for it. He says this was still less than 
the market value as he thought this was around £5,000. 
Mr F complained to Skyfire about the information which had been recorded with the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database on both of the claims hed made. It said both 
claims were still open at the time of the response to Mr Fs complaint, on 11 May 2023, as it 
hadnt made a full recovery on either of them. As it didnt believe the reported information 
was incorrect, it didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this, so he referred the matter to this service for an independent 
review. He explained the impact of Skyfires actions on him and asked for them to be 
punished and made to pay him adequate compensation.
While the matter was with this service, Skyfire explained the following to the Investigator:
1. The first claim had been closed and recorded with CUE as a non-fault claim with 
bonus (also known as no claims discount) allowed. This is because it recovered its 
full outlay from the third-party insurer (TPI).
2. On the second claim, the TPI hadnt accepted liability and that claim was still open in 
August 2023. In reviewing matters, it realised a mistake had been made - it paid Mr F 
the market value of his car twice rather than the market value on the first claim (less 
salvage) and the salvage value on the second claim. As a result, the full amount paid 
to Mr F under his second claim couldnt be recovered from the TPI. To ensure this 
didnt affect Mr F, it agreed to close the second claim and record it with CUE as a 
non-fault claim, with bonus allowed.
3. It wouldnt look to recover the difference between what Mr F was paid on the second 
claim and the salvage value of his car.
4. As both claims were being closed as non-fault claims, it would backdate the 
cancellation of M Fs policy to the date his car was declared a total loss, only 
charging him for the time on cover before then.
The Investigator looked into matters and relayed the above to Mr F. They considered this to 
be a fair and reasonable resolution to the matter. And, as Mr F had benefitted by having the 
value of his car paid twice, they didnt ask Skyfire to pay any compensation to Mr F. 
Mr F disagreed. He made several points including the following: 
The Investigator was deceived by Skyfire  Mr F hasnt been paid twice for his car as 
he was offered significantly below the value for it, even after he negotiated to 
increase the value offered by Skyfire. So, it paid him less - in total - than the car was 
worth. Even if it did pay twice, its Skyfires fault anyway.
Skyfire has failed to correctly put his information into CUE. The impact of this is 
significant. He was forced to enter a contract at exorbitant prices which has put him 
into significant debt and impacted him physically and mentally. This will continue for 
the next three years.
He wants the insurance premiums hes paid by direct debit to be returned to him.
The claims are still open on CUE and shouldve been recorded as settled in February 
2023. And Skyfire accepts should never have been recorded as fault claims anyway. 
Given this service accepts it was due to an error on Skyfires part, he doesnt 
understand why this hasnt been changed. 
The Investigator explained to Mr F why these points didnt change their view. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 November 2023 and an extract of my finding is set out 
below.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, Im currently intending to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about what shouldve reasonably and fairly happened to decide whether things 
have gone wrong in this case and, if so, how things should fairly be put right.
Mr Fs first claim
If Mr F had contacted Skyfire straight after hed had the first accident  as he was required to 
do under the terms of the policy - I think it likely Skyfire wouldve still written his car off and 
paid him the market value for it, less any deductions such as the excess. This wouldve 
settled his first claim. 
As Skyfires outlay was fully recovered from the first TPI, it should record this on CUE as a 
closed, non-fault claim with bonus allowed. But this is only once a full recovery has been 
made so I dont agree it shouldve reported the claim to CUE in this way from February 2023, 
as suggested. Skyfire paid Mr F the market value of his car of £2,228 under his first claim which was 
agreed by Mr F at the time. And it confirmed to this service the claim has been recorded on 
CUE as closed, non-fault claim with bonus allowed. This is what I consider it should have 
done, so I dont intend to ask it to do anything further to put things right in relation to the first 
claim.
Mr Fs second claim
Mr Fs full loss from both claims was covered under the first claim. This is because Skyfire 
paid Mr F the full pre-accident market value for the car, which was the maximum he was 
entitled to under the policy, in settlement of his first claim. Therefore, under the second 
claim, its my view there was no further payment which was fairly due to Mr F for his car.
That said, Mr Fs car was involved in a further accident. So, I consider the fair and 
reasonable outcome on Mr Fs second claim is for this to be recorded on CUE as a 
notification only claim, which can also be closed as Mr Fs loss had already been fully paid 
under the first claim. This may also be correctly noted on CUE as Close-Settled with no 
costs paid out and bonus allowed.
Market Value 
Skyfire paid Mr F the market value for his car of £2,228. It then also  mistakenly  paid Mr F 
a similar amount for his second claim of £2,318. 
I appreciate Mr F says his car was worth more and so he should be entitled to compensation 
in addition to keeping the £2,318 paid to him in error. But I dont see things the same. Mr F 
had agreed the valuation on the first claim. Even so, keeping money paid to him in error isnt 
a fair or reasonable way to resolve any dissatisfaction he has about the valuation of his car. 
Through this services inquisitorial remit and taking into account Mr Fs complaint points, Ive 
thought about whether Skyfire has applied the policy terms and conditions when paying the 
market value of Mr Fs car immediately before the first accident and if it has done so in a fair 
and reasonable way. Having done so, Im currently satisfied it was. This is because Ive 
reviewed evidence from three motor trade guides which I consider to be persuasive 
evidence of market value, mostly because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
of likely sales figures. These are for cars of the same make, model, age and mileage as Mr 
Fs at the date of its loss. I can see from these the amount Skyfire paid Mr F for the first 
claim was more than all the valuations. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr F says the car was worth more, Im not currently persuaded this 
impacts the market value Skyfire is required to offer in this matter. This is because I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest the valuation of £2,228 is unfair.
Taking everything into account, I dont currently consider Skyfire acted unfairly in reaching 
the market value it did for Mr Fs car at the time directly before the loss on the first claim. 
It follows the £2,318 mistakenly paid to Mr F isnt, in any part, owed to Mr F to effectively top 
up the market value paid to him in the first claim. 
impact on Mr F
Mr F says this situation has significantly impacted him in several different ways and 
continues to affect him. Im satisfied the way Skyfire handled this matter has led to an unfair outcome in how the 
second claim was recorded on CUE. So, I think its right Skyfire should compensate Mr F for 
the impact of this. But  for the reasons set out above - I dont agree Skyfire got all the other 
things wrong Mr F says it has. And I also take into account some of the problems which 
arose did so as a result of the late notification of the first claim by Mr F. Whilst Mr F says this 
was due to a situation beyond his control, that doesnt mean its something Skyfire is 
responsible for. I also think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are 
designed to compensate consumers, not punish organisations. 
Skyfire has told this service it wont seek to recover the payment of £2,318 from Mr F. And, 
although I wont interfere with that decision, this is significantly more than I wouldve asked it 
to pay to Mr F as a fair resolution to this complaint. So, I dont consider itd be fair or 
reasonable to ask Skyfire to pay further compensation to Mr F. 
Mr F told the Investigator CUE hasnt yet been updated by Skyfire. I havent seen any 
evidence of this, but it can take some time for CUE to reflect updates made so I dont find 
this concerning. However, to minimise the impact of any delays in CUE updating, Im 
intending to require Skyfire to confirm the position to Mr F in writing. This will allow Mr F to 
contact his current (and any future) insurer to ask for his premium to be (re)calculated based 
on the updated information. 
Finally, I note Skyfire says it will backdate the cancellation of Mr Fs policy to the date his car 
was declared a total loss, only charging him for the time on cover before then. I consider this 
a fair and reasonable way to deal with his policy. 
Putting things right
I intend to require Skyfire to take the following steps to put things right in this matter:
1. Record on CUE the second claim as a closed notification only claim. Also referred to 
as Close-Settled with no costs paid out with bonus allowed.
2. Send a letter to Mr F to confirm how both claims have been recorded on CUE (in 
accordance with this decision).
This should be done within 28 days of Skyfire being told Mr F has accepted this decision.
Skyfire didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr F responded to say he doesnt agree 
with the decision and isnt happy with the service hes received from this service. However, 
he wants to put the matter behind him so he will accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Mr F accepted the provisional decision and Skyfire didnt respond, I 
see no reason to depart from it. It follows I uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Putting things right
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must take the following steps to put things right in this 
matter:
1. Record on CUE the second claim as a closed notification only claim. Also referred to 
as Close-Settled with no costs paid out with bonus allowed.2. Send a letter to Mr F to confirm how both claims have been recorded on CUE (in 
accordance with this decision).
This should be done within 28 days of Skyfire being told Mr F has accepted this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in the provisional decision, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and 
require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to take the steps outlined above to put things 
right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman