DRN-1901151
The complaint
Mr K complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) hasnt settled a claim he made 
for a stolen watch fairly.
What happened
Mr K was burgled and a number of items of high value were stolen  including a watch hed 
specified on his home insurance cover. Hed insured his watch as part of his home 
insurance, saying it was worth £6,220, and described it as a mens watch, giving the makers 
name and that it was gold.
Fairmead agreed to meet Mr Ks claim and said it would settle the watch element with a 
voucher for £6,950. If it was to settle the claim in cash it said this would be a lower sum - 
£3,926.75.  
Mr K didnt think that was fair and complained to Fairmead, saying the watch he owned is no 
longer produced, so he cant use the voucher to replace it. He thinks he should receive the 
£6,950 in cash instead.
Mr K also complained that the windows that were to be replaced didnt match colour-wise 
with the rest in his home. Fairmead said it would send a specialist to treat them after fitting 
so they did match.
Fairmead also offered Mr K £150 for delaying the claim for about two months.
Mr K doesnt think this is fair so hes brought his complaint to us for review.
Our investigator thought Fairmeads offer was fair, as Mr K had been given two options for 
replacing his watch so he could choose whether to buy a new model or an old one. He also 
thought the offer to make the windows match and the compensation were reasonable.
Mr K remains unhappy about the watch, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr K has other complaints about the way Fairmead has handled his claim. This 
decision is only about the claim he made for the watch specified on his policy, the window 
replacement issue and the compensation Fairmead offered.
Ill comment on the windows first. Mr K said he didnt want the ones Fairmead offered to 
install because they didnt match in colour the rest of his windows. As our investigator 
explained, Fairmead is obliged, when settling a claim, to put Mr K in the position he was in 
before he made the claim. The windows were being provided by the same company that 
originally provided them  which seems to me to be the best way to get replacements as 
close as possible to the old ones. Fairmead has offered to get a specialist to stain his 
windows after installation so they match, which is a reasonable offer. 
Fairmead also looked at the delays it had caused when handling the complaint. Its offered 
Mr K £150 for these. When having to make an insurance claim there is always an element of 
inconvenience and upset, simply because its an upsetting position to be in. Fairmead isnt 
responsible for that, but it does need to take care it doesnt add to the stress and 
inconvenience unnecessarily. Fairmead agrees it could have handled things quicker. I agree 
it delayed progress but I think the compensation offered covers the mistakes it made.
Turning to the watch, I can see Mr K listed it on his policy as a gold mens watch with a value 
of £6,220. He provided the makers name but no more details.
Mr K says his watch was part stainless steel and part gold. Fairmead says it was told it was 
bi-coloured during a phone call. That looks to me like the same watch described in different 
ways. 
Mr K thinks the watch might have been either a large or medium size  but doesnt know the 
measurement. He only has a receipt for a ladies watch from 1989 when he says he bought it 
 but that this receipt might have been for his ex-wifes watch, which hes kept by mistake. 
He thinks his ex-wife could have the receipt for his watch. Fairmeads records say Mr K told 
Fairmeads specialist it was feasible hed been wearing a ladies watch all along as he has 
small wrists. As theres often not much difference in the appearance of these watches bar 
the size of the face, thats possible.
Fairmead says its given Mr K the benefit of the doubt here, and is willing to settle the claim 
without a receipt that exactly matches the description Mr K gave when insuring the watch. 
Thats a fair thing for Fairmead to do. 
Fairmead said there was a near equivalent available through its specialist and it would give 
Mr K a voucher to buy a replacement watch. The voucher was for £6,950  more than the 
amount Mr K originally said his watch was worth. When Mr K said he wanted cash instead, 
Fairmead said the equivalent in cash was just under £4,000.
Mr K says he cant replace his watch with the exact one he originally had. So he thinks 
Fairmead shouldnt reduce the settlement and should give him cash for the value of the 
voucher.
I dont think Fairmead has to do this. There are a couple of reasons. First, the terms and 
conditions in Mr Ks policy give Fairmead a choice about how to settle the claim  so its for 
Fairmead to decide this. The policy goes on to say Fairmead will replace the item as new  
or give Mr K the cost (to Fairmead) of doing this. 
Its often impossible to replace items with the same make and model as items go out of 
production over the years  which is what has happened here. So some compromises must 
be made. This service expects an insurer to do its best to replace items with something of 
similar quality, if the exact make and model isnt available. Fairmead has offered Mr K a 
voucher to buy a watch from the same maker based on the value of one of a similar quality 
and design. I think thats a fair offer. 
The second point is that its become apparent throughout this complaint that Mr K isnt sure 
of the exact model of watch  or even if it was a mens or ladies watch  that hes been 
wearing over the years. That makes it unlikely he could ever get an exact replacement. I 
think this supports my conclusions that the offer Fairmead made was fair. If Mr K still wants a cash settlement then I dont think Fairmead has to give him more than it 
would have spent to settle the claim with a voucher. That is often heavily discounted 
because of the relationships insurers have with suppliers. 
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill leave it with Mr K to decide which option he 
wants to go with. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman