DRN-3516989
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Jaja Finance Ltd hasnt done enough to help her recover money she 
paid for flight tickets she couldnt use.
What happened
Mrs K has a Jaja credit card. In June 2020 she used the card to pay an airline (R) for flights 
a few weeks later. But shortly after Mrs K paid for the tickets the UK government issued 
guidance connected to the Covid-19 pandemic. It advised against all but essential travel and 
said that travellers returning from Mrs Ks intended destination would face a two-week 
isolation period.
Mrs K felt she needed to comply with the government advice. She was unable to get in touch 
with R about a refund. As Mrs K paid using her Jaja card, she approached it with a view to 
getting her money back. Her husband had paid for other flights using his credit card and had 
been able to recover his money.
Jaja raised a chargeback through the MasterCard card scheme. But this was defended by R 
with supporting documents indicating the flights werent cancelled due to the pandemic and 
went ahead. Jaja told Mrs K it wasnt liable to her for the claim and that it was unable to 
progress the chargeback further. She was unhappy with the situation and complained to 
Jaja, and subsequently to us.
Our investigator didnt think Jaja had dealt with Mrs K unfairly. It had attempted to recover 
her payment using the chargeback process, and R had provided what appeared to be a valid 
defence under that process. The response R had given was consistent with Covid-19 
guidelines issued by the card scheme. The investigator examined the terms of the contract 
between R and Mrs K. She noted that the circumstances in Mrs Ks case were such that R 
hadnt made any misrepresentation or breached its contract with Mrs K.
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say, from the outset, that I understand Mrs Ks concern  shes paid money for flights 
she was unable to take through no fault of her own. Shes currently out of pocket and her 
strength of feeling is clear. That said, I cant say that this makes it fair for Jaja to refund her, 
or that it should be able to recover the money on the basis shes out of pocket. It would only 
be fair to do so if Jaja was in some way responsible for Mrs Ks loss  perhaps due to the 
way in which it handled her request for assistance, or because of some other liability it has 
accrued.
Mrs K used a credit card to pay R directly for the flights, which meet the financial limits of 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In simple terms, this means if Mrs K has a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against R, she has the same claim against 
Jaja. I can see that Jaja recognised this potential liability. However, it concluded that R 
hadnt misrepresented the position or breached its contract with Mrs K. As such, Jaja didnt 
accept it had any liability to Mrs K.
I accept Jajas position in respect of its potential liability under section 75. While I fully 
recognise that Mrs K was adhering to government guidance against all but essential travel, 
that did not oblige R to cancel flights or provide her with a refund. The flights she booked 
were non-refundable and went ahead despite the pandemic. The government guidance 
made no provision for customers to be entitled to a refund in such circumstances. Its 
possible that following the government advice might amount to the contract being frustrated 
rather than breached, but even that isnt clear-cut, given that the flights went ahead.
Its also worth noting that in October 2021 the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
concluded its investigation into the stances taken by certain airlines such as R, saying that 
the law does not provide passengers with a sufficiently clear right to a refund in these 
unusual circumstances to justify continuing with the case.
With this in mind, I dont believe it would be right for me to find that Jaja treated Mrs K 
unfairly in declining to meet her claim. Thats not to say that Mrs K might not be able to 
persuade a court that she should receive a refund, depending on the arguments made. As I 
understand it, the position taken by R hasnt been tested in a court of law. Its not for me to 
venture an opinion on any prospect of success Mrs K might have should she seek to 
progress a legal claim. Given the lack of clarity around the subject matter (and the possible 
costs involved) Mrs K should take independent legal advice if this is something she intends 
to pursue. 
The other mechanism available to Jaja to recover Mrs Ks payment to R was through the 
chargeback process, which enables  in certain circumstances  cardholders to resolve 
disputes they have with suppliers. So thats what Jaja did. It raised a chargeback claim, 
under a suitable reason code, submitting what Mrs K had told it in evidence.
But the rules under which Jaja is able to make a chargeback claim also permit R to defend it. 
And R did so. It submitted supporting evidence that the flights went ahead and that Mrs K 
wasnt entitled to a refund. Whether Rs activity was morally right or wrong, Jajas actions 
were in line with the card scheme guidance, Jaja was entitled to take the view that pursuing 
chargeback further was unlikely to lead to a successful outcome.
While I note Mrs K has said her husband was able to secure a refund for his tickets, which 
he bought using his own card, that doesnt mean Jaja was wrong not to refund Mrs K. She 
hasnt provided details of the basis on which he was refunded  for example, it might simply 
have been the case that R didnt defend that chargeback claim  and I cant approach Jaja 
for information relating to another customer that isnt party to the current complaint, 
notwithstanding the family connection.
Jaja did acknowledge that it ought to have reached a conclusion on Mrs Ks claim more 
quickly than it did. It credited her account with £20 in recognition of any inconvenience. But 
theres nothing to suggest that any delay meant the claim outcome would otherwise have 
been different.
My final decision
I sincerely hope Mrs K is able to achieve a resolution to her underlying dispute with R. I do 
sympathise with her situation. But having reviewed matters I dont think theres any basis on 
which I could say Jaja Finance Ltd has treated her unfairly or dealt with her request in a way that might suggest it would be fair for it to refund her, or pay her further compensation. So I 
regret to say that I cant uphold her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman