DRN-3855540
The complaint
Ms A complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £52,000 she lost as part of an 
investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons: 
It isnt in dispute that Ms A authorised the disputed payments she made to her Binance 
wallet using her Revolut debit card (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers from her crypto wallet). The payments were requested using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by Revolut, and the starting position is that firms 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments 
to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Ms A from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I accept that the payments Ms A was making to Binance ought reasonably to have raised 
concerns with Revolut, particularly when she came to make a payment as large as 
£40,000. However, even if Revolut had intervened at this point and asked further 
questions about the nature of the payments Ms A was making, Im not persuaded it 
would have likely stopped her from proceeding or have ultimately prevented her loss. 
I say this because I can see Ms A was contacted by one of her other banks when she 
was transferring money to her Revolut account as part of the scam. When asked what 
this was for, she said that she had opened up the account a week ago in order to save 
money. Ms A did not mention any of the details regarding the investment she thought 
she was making, and instead provided the bank with a different reason.
Ms A has acknowledged that she didnt tell the truth to her bank and said this was 
because she had been coached by the scammer in what to say. But it was based upon 
the answers she gave that the bank was satisfied the payment wasnt likely being made 
as part of a scam. So, while I appreciate Revolut didnt ask any questions about the 
payments Ms A was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely received honest 
answers if it had intervened.
In addition, during the scam, Ms A also became aware that loans were being taken out in 
her name, which should have given her significant cause for concern. Indeed, I note that 
Ms A said she was surprised when she received paperwork regarding these loans. 
However, despite having concerns, she continued to pay money to the scammer 
anyway. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Revolut liable for Ms As loss, because it seems more likely than not that she would have 
always made payment to the scammers, notwithstanding any intervention made by the 
bank.
I note that Ms A has also said she was vulnerable at the time of the scam due to some 
difficult circumstances she had experienced before she fell victim to the scam. Im sorry 
to hear about the difficult time Ms A has been through, but I cant see that Revolut had 
been made aware of any such vulnerabilities. And given there was nothing to put the 
bank on notice that Ms A lacked capacity to make her own financial decisions, I dont 
think it was under any obligation to put extra measures in place as a result.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms A, and Im sorry to hear she has been 
the victim of such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman