DRN-3112354
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that the porting application process followed by Northern Bank 
Limited (trading as Danske Bank) is unfair. By the time it said it wouldnt lend they felt 
committed to their sale and purchase and applied elsewhere for a mortgage. They ask that 
Danske Bank refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C contacted Northern Bank in February 2021 about porting their mortgage and 
taking out additional borrowing. They were given a decision in principle and told they couldnt 
make a full application until theyd agreed a sale and purchase.
When Mr and Mrs C made an application it was declined. Mr and Mrs C say if theyd known 
Danske wouldnt lend theyd have waited until their fixed rate product ended before looking 
to move. As it was, they felt their integrity would be in question if they didnt continue with 
their sale and purchase.
Mr and Mrs C say Northern Bank should refund the ERC of about £3,000 and consider the 
distress this situation has caused them. 
Our investigator said Danske Bank could have told Mr and Mrs C they didnt meet its lending 
criteria when it first spoke to them. But they were told this early in the application process 
and chose to go ahead with their sale and purchase. Our investigator didnt think it was fair 
to require Danske Bank to refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Mrs C said theyd found a property when they first spoke to 
Danske and were issued with a decision in principle. She said Danske refused to proceed 
until theyd agreed the sale of their property and the purchase of the new property, so that 
they were committed to going ahead before having an opportunity to receive a formal offer. 
Mrs C said other banks allow applications before a sale is agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C took out a fixed interest rate product with Danske Bank. This included an 
ERC. Mr and Mrs C agreed to this when they took out the product. They repaid the mortgage 
during the product term and Danske Bank applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the 
mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have had to pay the ERC if theyd ported their mortgage. They 
applied to port their mortgage (of about £102,000) and for additional borrowing (of about 
£140,000). Danske Bank declined their application.
Mr and Mrs C say it wasnt fair for Danske Bank to apply the ERC. They say if theyd known 
it wouldnt port their mortgage theyd have waited until the product expired to move house. 
They say Danske Banks processes meant they had to commit to their sale and purchase 
before making an application. 
In some circumstances, Id consider it unfair for a lender to apply an ERC. I dont think thats 
the case here and Ive explained why below. 
Mr and Mrs C contacted Danske Bank in mid-February 2021. Danske Banks notes say at 
this point they were looking for the right property. Danske carried out an affordability 
assessment, and asked Mr and Mrs C to provide information. 
Mr and Mrs C attended another appointment with Danske Bank on 1 March 2021. Danske 
Bank issued a mortgage illustration. It says based on the information it received the 
application appeared affordable. Its notes say Mr and Mrs C had agreed their sale and 
purchase. 
Danske Bank told Mr and Mrs C it wouldnt offer a new mortgage on 5 March 2021. It said 
they didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs C say Danske Bank should have told them this earlier, before they agreed their 
sale and purchase. It knew that Mr C was a company director, running his own business, 
and this was the source of his income. And they say it should have allowed them to make a 
full application before they agreed their sale and purchase. 
I dont think Danske Bank knew it wouldnt be able to lend before it issued the mortgage 
illustration. It says it didnt know the application didnt meet its criteria until its credit team 
reviewed Mr Cs company accounts. 
Danske Banks process is that customers should have agreed their sale and purchase 
before making a formal mortgage application. Danske Bank says this is market practice: 
Mrs C says it isnt. Even if Mrs C is right (and its not clear that she is) this doesnt make it 
fair to require Danske Bank to refund the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs C were not legally bound to proceed with their sale or purchase until they 
exchanged contracts. They havent provided evidence that theyd exchanged contracts 
before they were told Danske Bank wouldnt lend (and it would be unusual if their solicitor 
had allowed this without a mortgage offer). Mr and Mrs C were free to choose whether to go 
ahead with their house move, apply to another lender and pay the ERC. Or wait until their 
product expired. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs C felt theyd be letting other people in the sale and purchase 
chain down if they didnt go ahead. But this isnt the same as being committed to having to 
go ahead. There was only a few days between Danske Bank issuing the mortgage 
illustration and declining Mr and Mrs Cs application, so it seems unlikely their vendor or 
purchaser would have got very far along the purchase process. 
Mr and Mrs C chose to go ahead with their house move knowing theyd have to pay the 
ERC. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Danske Bank to 
refund the ERC. 
Mrs C says Danske Banks process forced them to make a financial commitment before it 
would make a decision whether to lend. Its unclear what this financial commitment was. As 
Ive said, Mr and Mr C werent legally bound to proceed with their sale and purchase until 
they exchanged contracts. I havent seen evidence that Mr and Mrs C made a financial 
commitment, or that Danske Bank required this.I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C were disappointed that they werent able to port their 
mortgage and had to pay an ERC. But I think Danske Bank was entitled under the mortgage 
terms and conditions to apply the ERC and I dont think it was unfair to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman