DRN-4074737
The complaint
Mr B complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions failed to 
make incentive scheme payments to his account. He also says PrePay Solutions 
inappropriately disclosed personal information to a third party.
What happened
Mr B holds an account with PrePay Solutions. PrePay Solutions was running an incentive 
scheme which effectively paid Mr B £50 for each person he referred to PrePay Solutions.
A number of people opened accounts with PrePay Solutions and said Mr B had referred 
them. PrePay Solutions refused to pay the rewards to Mr B and withdrew him from the 
incentive scheme as it considered his account wasnt in good standing, which was a 
condition of the scheme.
Mr B complained to PrePay Solutions about its refusal to pay the rewards and also because 
it had told one of the people whod opened an account but hadnt received their incentive 
reward that the reward wouldnt be paid where the referees account wasnt in good 
standing. Mr B said this essentially meant information about his account had been disclosed 
inappropriately.
When PrePay Solutions rejected his complaint, Mr B referred it to our service. During the 
course of our investigation, PrePay Solutions offered £20 compensation for the distress 
caused by the inferred disclosure of Mr Bs account information.
Our investigator thought this was a fair outcome, as he didnt consider PrePay Solutions 
should pay the referral rewards. Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
After reviewing Mr Bs complaint, I thought his complaint should be upheld and so issued a 
provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I said:
The terms and conditions of the referral incentive scheme say that £50 will be paid to Mr B if 
he has held an account in good standing for over three months.
The terms and conditions of the account also say that PrePay Solutions may close or 
suspend the account if youre not able to provide evidence that the account is used for 
business purposes.
It appears to be PrePay Solutions position that Mr B wasnt using the account for business 
purposes, and it also seems to infer that Mr B was misusing the referral scheme. It says one 
of the people who used Mr B as a referee was unable to give his details.
I acknowledge Mr Bs account showed a limited amount of use in the months before he 
made the complaint. However, theres no conditions I can see connected to the account 
which say he has to deposit a certain amount every month, or receive a certain number of 
payments from business accounts or anything similar.
It's also apparent that PrePay Solutions didnt close or suspend Mr Bs account. I also cant 
see any evidence it asked Mr B about his use of the account or the referral scheme before 
removing him from it.
Theres no definition of good standing in either the terms and conditions of the referral 
scheme or the account terms and conditions. In the absence of a definition of this phrase, I 
need to consider the ordinary and normal meaning of it.
I think a reasonable definition of good standing would be where an account isnt regularly 
entering an unarranged overdraft or where payments arent being regularly made from the 
account with insufficient funds  effectively that the account is being used as an 
unauthorised credit facility. Theres nothing to suggest Mr B was using the account in such a 
way.
PrePay Solutions appears to have said Mr Bs account wasnt in good standing because he 
wasnt using the account for business purposes and one of the people who he referred 
wasnt able to give details about him. If he wasnt using the account for business purposes, 
then it follows it should have closed the account or suspended its use. I think its also fair to 
say it should have challenged him about his use of the account if it believed this to be the 
case. I also dont think its fair to hold a third party being unable to give details about Mr B as 
being a reason to withdraw Mr B from the incentive scheme. Mr B was unable to control how 
the third party answered queries made by PrePay Solutions about the third partys account 
or referral.
I also note theres a general condition of the incentive scheme which allows PrePay 
Solutions to withdraw the offer at its discretion. That condition should only be invoked if the 
withdrawal of the offer is done fairly. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think this 
was the case with Mr B. Its reasons for withdrawing the offer rely on an unreasonable 
interpretation of a condition.
To put things right, PrePay Solutions should pay the referral fees which it declined to pay Mr 
B. It should also pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the dates they should have 
been paid to the date of settlement. This reflects our normal position where a financial 
business has unfairly withheld funds it should have paid a consumer sooner as it takes into 
account that the consumer was unable to access, use or earn interest on the funds in that 
period.
I also acknowledge Mr Bs point about the inappropriate disclosure. I agree that no personal 
information was disclosed to a third party, but reference to why a referral reward wasnt 
being awarded could lead to the third party believing Mr B was either in financial difficulties 
or acting inappropriately. The terms and conditions of the incentive scheme say PrePay 
Solutions will not discuss the account or account status with third parties.
Mr B would have been caused distress by this, and also because the payments he expected 
to receive for referring people werent received. Those third parties also expected to receive 
a reward which they didnt because of PrePay Solutions unreasonable decision to withdraw 
Mr B from the scheme. Mr B would have been distressed when finding out that people hed 
referred wouldnt receive the reward expected. To recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B because of these points, PrePay Solutions should pay £150 compensation. I 
think this amount reflects the impact on Mr B.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr B said he accepted my findings and how things 
should be put right.
PrePay Solutions didnt respond to the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new evidence has been provided, or new points made by either party in response to my 
provisional decision. I have however reviewed Mr Bs complaint, the relevant terms and 
conditions and the evidence provided by both parties again.
I remain satisfied that PrePay Solutuons didnt act reasonably when it declined to make the 
incentive payments to Mr B. Its also still my opinion that it didnt act appropriately when it 
disclosed information about Mr Bs account to an unauthorised third party. Ive previously 
outlined my reasons for these findings and they remain unchanged.
I also remain satisfied that the suggested compensation that should be paid to Mr B is 
appropriate. PrePay Solutions would also be required to pay the incentive amounts hed 
have been otherwise due, plus the 8% simple interest.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, PrePay 
Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions must:
Pay the referral rewards which would have been due to Mr B, plus 8% simple interest 
on these amounts from the dates they would have been paid to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £150 compensation to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman