DRN-2776460
The complaint
Miss S complains about delays and problems she experienced when trying to complete an 
ISA transfer with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
What happened
On 19 March 2020 Barclays received an ISA transfer request for Miss S from another 
business (A). Barclays says that due to the amount, the transfer was referred for further 
checks to be completed. Barclays also says that Miss S transfer form was incomplete. 
On 20 March 2020 the government declared a national lockdown. Barclays says this led to 
delays in administering accounts and processing ISA requests. Barclays has explained that 
there were significant operational issues caused by the lockdown and that many of its staff 
were unable to attend their normal places of work. 
On 3 April 2020 Miss S spoke with Barclays and it requested a new, fully completed, ISA 
transfer form from A. Barclays later emailed A to say, due to Covid restrictions, it couldnt 
send a cheque for the transfer funds. 
Miss S complained about the delays and went on to cancel the ISA transfer. 
On 16 May 2020 A sent details of its account number to complete the ISA transfer, but by 
that point Miss S had taken the decision not to proceed. 
Barclays responded to Miss S complaint and offered her £75 to apologise for the delay. 
Barclays explained that the ISA transfer process was largely paper based which meant 
delays outside of its control, following the national lockdown, impacted access to its offices. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Miss S 
has explained she wanted to use the funds for an investment and asked for her losses to be 
covered. The investigator thought Barclays had dealt with Miss S complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to do anything else. Miss S asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss S feels the pandemic highlighted existing problems with Barclays 
processes and that it unreasonably delayed her ISA transfer. But I think its fair to say that 
Barclays was operating in highly unusual conditions. In addition, whilst no fault of either 
party, Miss S ISA transfer was processed over the period where the first lockdown came 
into effect. 
As transfer request was sent to Barclays in paper form which meant someone had to 
physically process it. Barclays has explained its staff werent able to attend offices after the 
immediate decision to lockdown which led to a delay in processing the ISA transfer. I think 
thats a reasonable explanation and I can see Barclays options at this time were limited.
Whilst I agree there were delays, I havent found they were caused by errors Barclays made. 
I think its fair to say the delays were a result of issues outside of Barclays control. 
Barclays also says there was missing information required to complete the ISA transfer from 
A which impacted the delays experienced in this case. Looking at Barclays processing 
notes, I can see it needed more information from A to complete the ISA transfer. 
Miss S cancelled the transfer and the funds were returned to her ISA account. Whilst I 
understand Miss S wanted to use the funds for an investment, for the reasons Ive given 
above, I havent found the delays were caused by errors or processing problems by 
Barclays. Im not persuaded it would be fair to tell Barclays to cover the losses Miss S has 
told us about.
Barclays has offered Miss S £75 and apologised for the trouble and upset she experienced. 
Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with Miss S complaint fairly so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman