DRN-3851933
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam. 
Mr W is represented by a firm Ill refer to as C. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2021 Mr W was the victim of an investment scam. He made two international payments to 
the scammers  acting as a brokering firm Ill refer to as R - under the belief the funds were 
being used to purchase pre-initial public offering (pre-IPO) shares. The relevant payments 
are:
Date Amount
7 September 2021 £7,300
26 October 2021 £13,058.90
Total: £20,358.90
Mr W became aware hed been scammed about six to eight weeks later when the portal 
website showing his holdings went offline and he couldnt contact R. So, he contacted 
Barclays in December 2021 to report the scam. Barclays contacted the beneficiarys bank 
but no funds were returned. 
C complained to Barclays on Mr Ws behalf about what happened. In short, they said:
Barclays failed to protect Mr W from the scam by not intervening with the payments 
despite the obvious signs. Those being that they were large international payments 
made to new payees, which was unusual behaviour and activity for Mr Ws accounts. 
No warning was provided to Mr W to prompt him to reconsider whether he wanted to 
continue making the payments. This meant Barclays were ineffective in stopping 
Mr W from being scammed and suffering the financial loss. 
Barclays ought to have spoken with Mr W before releasing the payments  querying 
the purpose of them and asked probing questions to establish whether they were 
being made as a potential scam. 
Had this happened, Barclays wouldve realised Mr W was likely falling victim to an 
elaborate investment scam and so the payments wouldnt have been made. 
So, to settle the complaint, Mr W would accept reimbursement of the monies he lost. 
Barclays upheld the complaint in part and refunded 50% of amount Mr W lost (£10,179.45). 
They said they thought this was fair as although they couldve done more to protect Mr W, 
some of the responsibility falls with him also. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our investigator didnt think 
Barclays had to do anything further. He explained, had Barclays intervened before releasing 
the payments, he wasnt persuaded it wouldve made a difference (and so the payments 
wouldve still been made to the scammer). This is because Mr W had conducted online due 
diligence and was convinced R was a genuine firm operating abroad. So, he thought the 
50% refunded by Barclays was fair. 
C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, theyve added:
These payments were considerably higher than Mr Ws usual spending and so 
shouldve been picked up by Barclays, prompting a call before being released. 
They disagreed Mr W wouldve continued to make the payments had Barclays 
intervened. If Barclays had discussed the payments in detail with Mr W, as theyre 
trained, then he wouldve changed his mind about the investment opportunity and 
wouldnt have proceeded. 
Barclays offered a 50% refund as they considered Mr W should bear some 
responsibility for not conducting enough due diligence. Whereas the investigator 
concluded Mr W did conduct enough due diligence and has said there werent any 
online warnings about the scam at the time. They dont believe it would be fair or 
reasonable for Mr W to be punished for doing exactly what Barclays wouldve 
expected him to.
Barclays should have systems across all payment channels to prevent known fraud.
Following Barclays acceptance of their failure to intervene effectively, and the 
investigators disagreement as to the level of due diligence completed, they believe 
that Mr W should receive a full refund on this basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr W has been the victim of a scam and the impact this has had on him. I 
know Mr W was hoping for the full sum he lost to be refunded but, after giving this matter 
careful consideration, I think the amount offered by Barclays is fair and so Im not increasing 
it further.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But the CRM Code only applies to 
payments made between two accounts held in the UK  and both accounts must be 
denominated in pounds sterling. This means, as Mr Ws payments were sent internationally, 
theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether Barclays should 
do more under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr W knowingly made the payments from his Barclays account. I appreciate Mr W was 
tricked by the scammer as he thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr W. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Barclays are expected to process 
the payments and Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Barclays to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr W to Barclays (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having looked at Mr Ws account usage before the scam occurred, it was mostly used for 
low value day to day spending  except for a £4,600 monthly standing order payment for 
bills. The two payments therefore were for more than Mr W typically spent on his account. 
And given they were international payments being made to new payees, which wasnt typical 
of Mr Ws account usage, I think they ought to have been identified by Barclays as unusual. 
So, I think Barclays ought to have held the payments and contacted Mr W about them. 
Ive therefore thought about, had this happened, whether Mr Ws loss couldve been 
prevented. And, after giving this careful thought, I think its most likely Mr W wouldve 
proceeded with making the payments. Ill explain why.
C has explained that R contacted Mr W by email, providing opportunities to invest in pre-IPO 
shares, after hed completed an enquiry form. This was following Mr W  along with his son 
 deciding to choose this type of investment to generate additional income. And that this was 
because Mr W was aware of these kinds of investments due to carrying out extensive prior 
online research into the industry. 
After being contacted by R, Mr W researched the firm and found they were based abroad  
with the phone numbers he received matching the area code for that location. Hed also 
looked online, beyond Rs website, but there werent any alerts or warnings to suggest it was 
a scam. R also presented themselves to Mr W in a professional manner, sounding like 
experts in the field and provided summaries of the current position of the companies he was 
investing in, along with valuations of them ahead of their next round of funding. This assured 
Mr W of the legitimacy of the opportunity as it was extremely detailed information and was 
presented in an entirely professional format. 
Mr W received proof from R that shares had been acquired in the first company after he 
made the £7,300 payment  such as statements and receipts showing the ownership of the 
shares. He was then, shortly after this, provided access to Rs website portal that allowed 
him to see his holdings including the valuations of his shares. Mr W then received several 
email exchanges and updates from R on the progress of his shares, along with being offered 
further investment opportunities. And he was encouraged to make the £13,058.90 payment 
due to the sophistication and professionalism with which his first investment went through  
so Mr W was convinced he was making a genuine and profitable investment. 
Having considered this, its clear Mr W was the victim of a sophisticated scam. And due to 
the professionalism of the scammers and the detailed information he received about the 
investment opportunities, I think its understandable why Mr W thought R to be a legitimate 
brokerage firm. Because of this, even though I think Barclays ought to have spoken with 
Mr W before releasing the payments, Im not persuaded this wouldve deterred Mr W from 
proceeding with the investments. I say this as, even if Barclays had queried Mr W about the 
purpose of the payments and asked probing questions to identify whether it was indeed a 
scam, I think its most likely Mr W wouldve reassured Barclays of its legitimacy. And that, 
upon questioning, Mr W wouldve explained hed carried out both extensive research into 
these types of investments and also looked into R online. 
There is a warning published on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website about R, along 
with other websites indicating that its a scam. These however werent available at the time 
Mr W made the payments. Therefore, even if Barclays advised Mr W to carry out further 
checks before releasing the payments, there wouldnt have been anything online  from what Ive seen  to warn him of the possibility R wasnt a legitimate firm and the investment 
opportunity was a scam. 
I realise C doesnt think it would be fair for Mr W to be penalised for carrying out due 
diligence before making the payments, which is what Barclays would expect. But, while I 
sympathise with Mr Ws situation, I dont think Barclays failure to carry out additional checks 
led to the loss occurring. And so, because of this, I think their decision to refund 50% of the 
losses is fair.
Im sorry to hear Mr W fell victim to a scam. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
think Barclays has acted fairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman