DRN-2732123
The complaint
Mr K is a sole trader. He complains that TSB Bank plc acted unfairly when declining his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan, and later suspending and closing his accounts.
What happened
Mr K held a personal account with TSB. Seeking to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan, he opened a business current account with TSB in July 2020.
Mr K initially applied for a loan of £75,000 under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme but TSB 
said this couldnt go ahead, as the loan amount was greater than 25% of his annual turnover 
which wasnt permitted under the Scheme rules. TSB later considered a request for a 
reduced amount, but this was declined. Mr K also applied for an overdraft under the 
Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme, but this request was declined as 
well.
TSB reviewed Mr Ks accounts in September 2020, placing a block on them while it did so. 
The bank asked Mr K for proof of entitlement to some of the funds hed received into his 
account, which he declined to provide. It subsequently closed Mr Ks accounts.
When Mr K complained, TSB said that Bounce Back Loan applications were subject to 
customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks and 
that his application hadnt met the relevant criteria. It said it hadnt made an error in asking 
Mr K for proof of entitlement to certain funds or blocking the account. It said these steps 
were necessary measures in line with its internal policy and fraud prevention obligations, and 
allowed for under the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr K didnt accept TSBs response. He thought he was eligible for the Bounce Back Loan 
and was unhappy that the bank hadnt given him a specific reason for its decision to decline 
his application or close his accounts.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint, but she didnt think TSB had acted 
unfairly. In summary, she said:
Mr Ks applications for a CBIL-backed overdraft and a Bounce Back Loan had failed 
the checks that TSB had conducted as required under the rules of the Schemes.
Looking at the information TSB had reviewed when assessing Mr Ks applications, 
she thought the banks decisions were reasonable.
TSB had closed Mr Ks accounts in line with the terms and conditions, which was a 
decision it was entitled to make.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that he was eligible for the 
government-backed support as he had a viable and profitable business, and pointed to 
information held with credit reference agencies to show that there were no fraud or AML 
markers recorded against him.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The Bounce Back Loan and CBIL overdraft applications
Lenders were required to carry out certain checks on applications for a Bounce Back Loan. 
As TSB has explained, these included fraud, AML and KYC checks. TSB says it declined 
Mr Ks Bounce Back Loan application because it failed those checks. Having looked at the 
information TSB took into account when assessing Mr Ks application, I think its decision 
was reasonable. 
Ive taken into account everything that Mr K has said and provided to us about the banks 
decision, including the fact that no fraud or AML markers are recorded against him with 
external agencies. But the banks checks were more wide-ranging than this, and they dont 
lead me to think that its decision was incorrect or unreasonable. Similarly, the fact that 
Mr Ks business was viable or profitable are not in any dispute  but even if Mr K met all the 
core eligibility criteria, lending under the Scheme still wasnt guaranteed and was subject to 
the checks Ive described above. And I have no reason to think that the banks decision was 
in any way influenced by any previous complaint hes raised or anything similar such as his 
dealings with particular branches or staff members  rather, it was the result of the checks 
Ive outlined above.
I appreciate that Mr K is concerned and frustrated by the relative lack of detail that hes been 
provided about the banks decision. But TSB isnt required to share any more information 
with him about this than it already has. And I dont think it would be appropriate for me to do 
so, particularly as information about how banks reach such decisions are subject to some 
legitimate confidentiality. All I can do is reassure Mr K that, as mentioned above, weve 
received the banks internal records and Ive reviewed the basis on which his application was 
declined  and Im satisfied that the bank acted fairly. 
I should also clarify, given what Mr K said in response to our investigators view, that the 
decision was not informed by the banks review of his accounts and request for proof of 
entitlement to funds  which came after it had declined his Bounce Back Loan application.
Mr K hasnt raised any particular concern with regard to either the initial Bounce Back Loan 
(for a higher amount) or the CBIL-backed overdraft. But for completeness, I would add that it 
was right for TSB to advise that it couldnt proceed with Mr Ks initial Bounce Back Loan 
application as he had applied for a greater loan amount than he was eligible for under the 
rules of the Scheme, given his stated turnover. And in respect of the CBIL overdraft, Mr K 
didnt meet the banks eligibility criteria  although in any event, the application would also 
have failed for the same reasons as the Bounce Back Loan request did subsequently. So I 
dont think TSB did anything wrong in how it handled these applications either.The review, restriction and closure of the accounts
TSB has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking services 
to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, and may 
need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks accounts allowed TSB to suspend its services. TSB has 
explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. And in order to comply with these 
obligations, TSB is entitled to ask a customer for information about how they use their 
accounts  which may include particular payments or transactions. Having looked at all the 
evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to block Mr Ks accounts and ask him for 
information about the transactions it cited. 
TSB proceeded to complete its review, which it did without any further information from Mr K 
as he declined to provide anything. This led to its decision to close Mr Ks accounts. TSB 
was entitled to make this decision, in much the same way that Mr K was free to close his 
accounts at any time  and its not something with which wed generally interfere. The terms 
and conditions allowed TSB to close the accounts immediately in certain circumstances, and 
I think it was reasonable for it to do so given the outcome of its review.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think TSB did anything wrong in how it handled Mr Ks 
loan applications or in closing his accounts. So Im not requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman