DRN-3377639
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy about an equity release  or lifetime  mortgage she took out in 2010 
through Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Mrs C by her daughter, who Ill refer to as 
Ms C1.
In summary, the concerns Ms C1 raised are that:
Shed recently become aware that the interest rate is 6.99% and the amount needed 
to redeem the mortgage was more than double the amount borrowed.
Mrs Cs understanding was that the debt would double, but then stop. She didnt 
understand that the debt would continue to rise.
There was no illustration about how the debt would rise.
Aviva should have insisted that a family member was present.
Mrs C was vulnerable due to her age.
What happened
Mrs C applied for this lifetime mortgage in September 2010. She applied to borrow £30,000 
with a total amount available of £70,300 (that is, she could choose to draw down the 
remainder in the future).
A valuation was carried out which gave a lower value for the property than Mrs C had 
estimated when she applied. This meant she could still borrow the £30,000 but the total 
amount available had reduced to £61,050. 
The loan completed in December 2010, and the interest rate was fixed at 6.99% on an 
interest roll-up basis.
In September 2021 Ms C1 (and her siblings) contacted Aviva to complain about the lifetime 
mortgage.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, and so Ms C1 referred the complaint to our service on 
behalf of her mother.
Our investigator looked at things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that 
the paperwork from the time indicated Mrs C was made aware of the nature of the contract, 
including how the interest would roll-up and that there were no other options available to her. 
He said there was nothing to show Mrs C was vulnerable  her age, in itself, wouldnt 
indicate that  and she had independent legal advice.
Ms C1 didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority and the Equity Release Council (formerly the Safe Home 
Income Plan  or SHIP) are aware that there is potential, years down the line, for adult 
children to find out their parents had taken out an equity release mortgage without consulting 
them first. These scenarios  and the fact that some equity release mortgages are sold to 
elderly customers  is why this type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to a 
robust and rigorous sales process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a 
financial adviser, as well as from an independent solicitor.
Mrs C was given independent legal advice from a solicitor of her choice. The solicitor was 
acting for Mrs C and the advice should have been given with her best interests at heart. If 
Mrs C feels that wasnt the case then shed need to raise that with her solicitor directly, Aviva 
isnt responsible for that.
The information-gathering exercise identified various specific financial objectives - to pay off 
her existing mortgage and credit card debt, buy a new three-piece suite and get a new 
bathroom installed. By proceeding with the application, Mrs C signed to confirm the 
information given about her personal circumstances and spending plans to be true and 
accurate at the time. Aviva had no regulatory responsibility to check that she spent the 
money on what shed said she would, or that the information she gave them about how she 
spent her money (such as on clothes and holidays) is correct.
Aviva recorded Mrs Cs net monthly income as £1,046, and her outgoings as £839, giving 
her a monthly surplus of £207.
The information captured also indicated that Mrs C had £2,000 in savings as an emergency 
fund so its reasonable to infer from this that Mrs C would have need of some form of 
borrowing if she was to be able to realise her stated objectives. So Ive next considered 
whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been a better option.
The documentation from the time shows that other ways of raising the money were 
discussed. It was recorded: 
We concluded that your savings were insufficient to meet your needs and you did not 
wish to move home. You are not expecting an inheritance and have no policies to mature. 
You understand that no grants are available. We discussed ordinary mortgages and bank 
loans as alternatives to Equity Release. However you dismissed the ideas saying that you 
did not want any increased outgoings to your monthly household budget.
Mrs C was clear that she didnt want to make any monthly payments and that was her 
decision to make. It was recorded that she was:
... prepared to take the risk of eroding the equity within your property and consequently 
reducing the inheritance you leave to your heirs and beneficiaries.And;
You are aware that by releasing money from your property, you are reducing the legacy 
to your beneficiaries
You said that you would like to leave your children an inheritance but that it is not 
important to leave a guaranteed estate. You have discussed equity release with them & 
they have said that you should do it because they don't want you to struggle financially.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that an equity release was probably the only 
viable option for Mrs C given her needs and circumstances recorded at the time. The 
mortgage Aviva recommended and then provided for Mrs C raised the money shed asked 
for and met her needs and circumstances as they were recorded at the time.
Mrs C had the option to have a family member present, but she chose not to. Instead she 
chose to have one of her friends with her when she met with the adviser. That was her 
choice, and Aviva couldnt force her to notify her family if shed chosen not to. 
The documents show that Mrs C went through a very detailed questionnaire with Avivas 
adviser. There is no suggestion in the documentation that Mrs C was suffering from any 
cognitive impairment, or that she was vulnerable, which prevented her from understanding 
what she was doing, or that she shouldnt have been allowed to make her own decisions 
about her own property.
That brings me to the interest rate. Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity 
release mortgage, and then to attract further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of 
this would have been demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale material.
The rate charged was 6.99% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out in the 
offer. I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mrs C studied the offer, or how much 
of the information it contained she assimilated; but the information was set out in a manner 
prescribed by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Im satisfied the paperwork explained how the mortgage worked, all the relevant conditions 
that apply and the implications for Mrs C of entering into this transaction. The suitability 
report gives some detail about Mrs Cs circumstances, wishes and needs. I am also satisfied 
that it reflects what was recorded at the time by Aviva, based on the information provided by 
Mrs C.
The balance at the 10 year point as quoted in the original email of complaint matched that 
set out on the mortgage offer, so Im satisfied the lifetime mortgage ran as had been 
illustrated  and Mrs C agreed to  in 2010. Whilst Ms C1 has said her mother believed the 
debt could double but then not increase any further, I cant see anything to show she was 
told that at the time and the mortgage offer shows the £30,000 original loan amount would 
equate to a debt of just under £83,000 after 15 years, with a warning Remember that the 
mortgage could run for a longer or shorter time than 15 years, and if it runs for longer, the 
amount you owe will carry on increasing.
Mrs C might now regret taking out the lifetime mortgage but that doesnt mean it was 
mis-sold to her in 2010. She had two meetings with the adviser and was issued with various 
documents at the time which explained the contract she was entering into, and how the 
interest would roll-up. Mrs C received independent legal advice, and could have withdrawn 
from the transaction at any time. Aviva was entitled to rely on the information Mrs C gave, 
and that showed that she had a need to borrow money as she didnt have sufficient savings 
or other means to meet her wants and needs, and she didnt want to use her minimal spare income to make monthly debt repayments. The reasons Mrs C gave Aviva for wanting the 
money were entirely plausible as was how she wanted to spend her spare income. It wasnt 
Avivas job to check up on Mrs C or police her spending to make sure shed used the funds 
and her spare income as she said she was going to.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, from the evidence from the point of sale, that 
the advice and recommendation were suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. This 
means that I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong. Because I dont think Aviva did 
anything wrong I cant make any order or award. Were not able to order a payment be made 
as a gesture of goodwill.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman