DRN-2218836
The complaint
Mrs T and her daughter Miss T complain about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with their 
request to change the date of the statements on their joint account, and related issues.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs T Barclays to change the date of her joint account statements to the 
first of the month. She was told that this would be done, but it was not, and so on 2 October 
she called the bank to complain. The bank apologised, the statements date was changed, 
and the call handler offered £35 compensation (consisting of £25 for inconvenience and £10 
for the cost of her calls). Mrs T accepted that offer, but it was not paid, and her complaint 
was not in fact logged. Two days later, Mrs T called Barclays again, to complain about this. 
Barclays apologised and offered to pay her £130 (£100 compensation and £30 for her calls).
Mrs T did not accept that offer, because she also wanted to be paid the original offer of £35 
as well  a total of £165. She says that this is because the two offers related to different 
issues, so the £35 could not be considered to be included in the £130. Alternatively, if it was 
included, then £95 was not enough for the matters which had arisen since the £35 had been 
offered. She brought this complaint to our Service, represented by her daughter, Miss T, who 
is also the joint account holder and joint complainant.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that part of this complaint was about 
how Barclays had handled the original complaint about the statements, and our Service did 
not have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about that, because complaint-handling is not a 
regulated activity. Confining his opinion to the complaint about the statements, he decided 
that £130 was fair compensation, and he did not think Barclays needed to do more. In 
coming to that conclusion, he took into account that Mrs and Miss T had been able to see 
their account statements on online banking, so they had not been adversely affected by their 
October statement not arriving when they expected it.
Miss T did not accept that opinion. She insisted that Barclays should pay both offers, and 
that refusing to pay the original offer of £35 was deceitful, because this had been promised 
and agreed to. The subsequent offer was not for the same thing, but for separate matters. 
She did not accept that this Service could not consider all of the issues raised in this 
complaint. She also said that the investigator had never asked them what impact the failure 
to change the statement date had had on Mrs T. She asked for an ombudsman to consider 
this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Miss Ts argument that the two offers relate to two distinct issues. The £35 offer 
was compensation for not adjusting the date of the October statement, and that offer was 
accepted in settlement of that complaint. Then the bank failed to pay the £35, and failed to 
log the original complaint, and so Mrs T made a second complaint about that. This second 
complaint led to the second offer, this time for £130.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint about the provision of a 
financial service, or the failure to provide a financial service.1 Providing bank statements 
(which includes changing the date on which statements are provided) is a financial service, 
and so we can consider a complaint about failing to change the date on which statements 
are provided. Mrs Ts original complaint was about that, and it was resolved by the banks 
offer, or at least it would have been resolved if the £35 had actually been paid.
The complaint about what happened next is not a complaint about providing, or failing to 
provide, a financial service. It is a complaint about how the first complaint was handled. It 
follows that I have no power to consider it, or to decide whether £135 (or £95) is enough 
compensation for what happened. All I can say is that the banks £35 offer, which relates to 
the part of this complaint which I do have power to consider, is still available if Mrs and 
Miss T still want to accept it. The fact that the bank is also offering to pay another £95 more 
than that is not something I can comment on, and in particular I cannot comment on whether 
it is fair compensation for the matters to which it relates.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mrs and Miss T to decide whether to accept 
Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £130.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T and Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021. Miss T may reply on her mothers 
behalf.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 This was decided by the High Court in the case of R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 1135 (Admin). I am bound by that decision and I cannot depart 
from it.