DRN-3516915
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about works carried out by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under a home emergency policy.
What happened
British Gas visited Mrs Ss home to deal with an issue with the boiler. It fitted a new heat 
exchanger. Shortly after, Mrs S heard noises coming from the boiler. She reported this to 
British Gas, which sent a number of engineers to try and identify the problem. The engineers 
didnt find any issues with the boiler and declared it safe.
Mrs S complained to British Gas because she said she had been left for several months 
without heating or hot water and that the vibrations from the boiler had caused structural 
damage to her home. When British Gas replied to the complaint, it said its engineers hadnt 
found any safety issues with the boiler and it hadnt found evidence to show it was 
responsible for any damage. However, it offered £100 compensation because of some 
delays when she reported issues.
When Mrs S complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
British Gas engineers hadnt identified any issues with the boiler. The job sheets also 
showed the boiler was safe to use. He said this indicated Mrs S could have used the boiler. 
He said the £100 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mrs S first found an issue with her boiler, British Gas fitted a new heat exchanger. 
Following this, Mrs S heard noises coming from the boiler. An engineer carried out checks 
and confirmed the boiler was working but removed some air from the system. British Gas 
continued to send engineers, including one visit that lasted about two hours. During that visit, 
the engineer said he didnt hear any noises. British Gas visited again a few months later and 
didnt find any safety issues. Mrs S also said another company told her the boiler was 
unsafe. British Gas asked Mrs S to provide an assessment from that company, but she was 
unable to do so. British Gas also contacted the company directly, but wasnt able to obtain 
any information. So, based on what Ive seen, I think British Gas took reasonable steps to 
check if there were issues with the boiler and to ensure it was safe.
Mrs S has said she was left without heating and hot water for many months. However, based 
on British Gas records, it seemed to carry out checks to ensure the boiler was safe and that 
it was working. So, I havent seen anything to show British Gas was responsible if Mrs S felt 
unable to use her boiler.
Mrs S has also said the vibrations from the boiler caused damage to her home. Ive seen 
photos of damage. However, I havent seen anything to show that British Gas was likely to 
be responsible for that damage. Initially, British Gas said Mrs S should provide a structural 
engineers report. It also suggested she should contact her home insurer. In the 
circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
British Gas offered Mrs S £100 compensation. Mrs S said some engineers didnt turn up to 
appointments. There were also delays in Mrs S receiving responses when she raised issues 
with British Gas. Looking at what happened, I think the amount offered was reasonable and I 
dont require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman