DRN-4176940
The complaint
Mr H complains that the gambling block applied to his account with National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to stop gambling transactions from going through as expected. 
Mr H wants all gambling transactions made on his account refunded. 
What happened
During a call with NatWest on 26 February 2021 with the agreement of Mr H a gambling 
block was applied to his account. During the call Mr H was told that the block would not stop 
all transactions from going through and Mr H also informed NatWest that he had arranged 
for another third party block to be applied to assist him.  
NatWest confirmed this in writing to Mr H. NatWest explained that:
The stop request should stop retailers identified as gambling sites from debiting you in the
future. Because the Visa Debit card is not a guaranteed method of payment, we cannot
guarantee you would not be charged by a retailer where they have the card details provided
correctly, and in full.
We rely on the retailers cooperation to comply with the stop request but regret the Bank can
accept no liability if transactions are applied to your account if your card details have been
provided.
NatWests records show Mr H removed the gambling stop on its mobile app on 18 October 
2022 and re applied it on 5 December 2022.
Following this Mr H complained to NatWest that he was able to make gambling transactions 
on his account. NatWest didnt uphold Mr Hs account as it said there was no bank error and 
he was advised that the stop didnt guarantee debits will not go through and that Mr H had 
himself removed the gambling block. 
NatWest advised Mr H to contact all companies he has accounts with or stores he uses to 
self-exclude from their sites and sign posted Mr H to third party organisations that could help 
Mr H with his gambling. 
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service in February 2023.
NatWest has further explained that when a gambling block is placed it advises that it needs 
to be applied to every new card, additionally if a customer has used a gambling merchant 
that is not processing under the correct category code then it would not be declined.
Our investigator looked at all of this and thought that NatWest had made it clear to Mr H that 
even with the gambling block certain transactions may still go through. Following a review of 
Mr Hs statements, they thought that the block did function as it was supposed to and that 
when gambling transactions appeared on the statements for recognisable gambling 
merchants it was during the period Mr H had removed the block. And if a gambling 
transaction went through when the block was applied, they thought this was due to either the 
merchant not being based in the UK or ones that werent easily recognisable as gambling 
sites. And as such they didnt think that NatWest had made an error and didnt think it should 
refund Mr H his gambling transactions. 
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this, he agreed the block worked but the problem was he could 
take it on and off whenever he wanted. Mr H has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain my role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and 
see if the bank has done anything wrong or treated the consumer unfairly. If it has, we seek 
to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. And we may award compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr H is unhappy that the gambling block NatWest applied to his account didnt block all 
transactions and that he could turn it off whenever he wanted. I sympathise with Mr H and 
the gambling struggles that he has, and I applaud him for seeking help. In situations such as 
Mr Hs while I wouldnt tell NatWest what tools it needs to have in place to support 
customers with a gambling addiction, I would expect it to utilize the tools it does have and 
make the customer aware of what it can do to assist and any limitations there might be.
 
But nothing is fool proof and in Mr Hs case having listened to the call between NatWest and 
Mr H Im satisfied that NatWest did utilise the tool it had in place and apply the gambling 
block to Mr Hs account. Furthermore, it explained to Mr H that the gambling block wasnt 
guaranteed to block all gambling transactions and that Mr H was aware of this as he himself 
in response confirms he has also added further tools to help stop him gambling.
I can also see from Mr Hs statements that the gambling block for all intensive purposes 
appears to work and although the odd gambling transaction may have slipped through the 
net, all the major gambling merchants were blocked while the block was in place. In any 
case I dont think NatWest should be penalised for the limitations of the gambling block 
which were out of its control. Not being able to easily block all gambling transactions made 
online or otherwise, isnt an error on NatWests part  it simply isnt possible.
 
I understand that Mr H is unhappy he was able switch off the blocks activated on his account 
whenever he wanted to. But ultimately the gambling block isnt a cure, it is there to act as a 
deterrent and to assist Mr H in managing his money by adding an extra step when he wishes 
to gamble and forcing him to think about what he is doing when removing the block. I dont 
think it would be fair to expect NatWest to make those decisions for Mr H or deny him the 
ability to make that decision.
So having considered everything I dont think it that NatWest has made a mistake or treated 
Mr H unfairly regarding the gambling transactions on his account and so it follows that I dont 
think it would be fair to ask NatWest to refund Mr H the money he spent on gambling.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 Caroline Davies
Ombudsman