DRN-3298002
The complaint
Mr P complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited acted unfairly when it set the rate of a 
payment plan when he fell into arrears with a conditional sale agreement that he had 
with it for a car.
What happened
In October 2016, Mr P entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car 
with Moneybarn. The car cost £11,795 and the interest on the agreement amounted to
£9,679.23, making a total of £21,474.23 to be paid via 59 monthly instalments of £363.94.
Mr P experienced a change in his financial circumstances and struggled to make the full 
monthly repayments. Moneybarn said it wished to assist Mr P in keeping the car and 
various repayments were made in an effort to clear the arrears.
In January 2019, Mr P supplied Moneybarn with his income and expenses document that 
hed prepared with the help of a debt organisation. This document set out that Mr P would 
be able to pay £36.03pm in addition to the set monthly amount. Moneybarn discussed this 
with Mr P over the telephone as this amount wasnt sufficient to clear the arrears by the 
time the agreement ended in October 2021. The arrears on the agreement, at this time, 
were in excess of £3,500. Mr P explained that his financial circumstances should be 
changing in the future and he would be able to increase his payments. A payment plan at 
an additional £36pm was set for six months ending in July 2019.
A default notice was issued in April 2019 due to a missed payment and the arrears, by 
then, were standing at £3,648.56. Mr P contacted Moneybarn and explained his hours at 
work had been reduced. It was agreed that a payment plan for three months would be put 
in place with Mr P paying £36pm in addition to the set monthly amount. In setting up this 
payment plan, Moneybarn considered the earlier income and expenses form provided. It 
reviewed this form with Mr P and said that, looking at the figures, Mr P had a disposable 
income of £124pm. Moneybarn says it told Mr P that paying an additional £36pm wouldnt 
clear the arrears before the agreement ended in October 2021 and that a new income and 
expenses form would need to be completed with his up to date figures. 
In August 2019, Mr P contacted Moneybarn as he was struggling to make the payment 
due. Moneybarn says he informed it that his income and expenses were the same and 
there was a disposable income of £124pm. Moneybarn informed him that, as the arrears 
now stood at £3,940.47, he would need to pay off the arrears at the rate of £158pm in 
addition to the monthly set payment in order to clear the full balance by the time the 
agreement was due to end in 25 months time. Moneybarn says Mr P offered an extra 
£100pm to clear the arrears. Moneybarn said this amount wouldnt clear the arrears and 
that exit options needed now to be considered, or for it to receive a new income and 
expenses form that showed a larger amount of disposable income.
Mr P spoke with Moneybarn again on the same day in August 2019 about the agreement. 
The previously completed income and expenditure form was again gone over and this 
time Moneybarn says that a disposable income of £160pm was calculated. It says that it 
informed Mr P this would be the last payment plan it would agree to due to affordability. A 
new payment plan of £158pm to pay the arrears, together with the set monthly amount, 
was set to commence from September 2019.
Mr P complained to Moneybarn about the payment plan for £158pm. He said this plan 
was unfair and hadnt been based on an up to date income and expenditure form as 
Moneybarn had relied on information that was over six months old. He said he had told 
Moneybarn in August that a new income and expenditure form had been completed with 
the assistance of a debt organisation, but this wasnt considered. Mr P said he had only 
been told by Moneybarn that his payments of £36pm would need to be slightly increased 
and hadnt been warned he would need to make payments of £158pm, which was 
unaffordable. He said he was told to pay the new amount of £158pm on top of the 
contractual monthly amount or lose the goods.
Mr P complained that it was an unfair that Moneybarn wasnt prepared to extend the 
length of the agreement, although this would have made payments sustainable for him. 
He said that, although the income and expenses had shown a disposable income of 
£160pm, after hed paid his expenses it wasnt workable to take the whole amount as it 
put him under considerable financial pressure. Mr P also said that Moneybarn hadnt 
taken into account the payments of £400pm hed made between February and June 2019, 
which showed he was making an effort to pay.
Mr P said that he had offered £60pm in place of the £36pm hed been paying and that 
this had been a sustainable offer which Moneybarn should have accepted, together with 
extending the agreements length. He said hed been pressurised into agreeing the 
£158pm above the contractual amount.
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that Mr P had been informed that a 
payment plan of £36pm was insufficient to clear the arrears before the agreement ended 
and that this would have to be increased. It said he hadnt been given the expectation this 
increase need only be marginal. Moneybarn said this was a fixed term loan secured 
against the vehicle and, if the arrears couldnt be cleared within the time set, then exit 
options would need to be considered.
Moneybarn also said, although it acknowledged Mr P had made payments to clear the 
arrears, this didnt have an impact on the information provided to him as the account 
remained in arrears. It said it wasnt able to accept the lower offer for the payment plan 
as this wouldnt have cleared the outstanding arrears by the time the agreement ended. 
And that £158pm was the minimum it could accept for a payment plan in the 
circumstances. It said it had remained supportive to Mr P due to his financial difficulties 
and had looked for solutions so that he could keep the car. 
Mr P was unhappy at Moneybarns response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. In regard to extending 
the agreements length, he said Moneybarn secured the loan value against the car so, 
while the value of the car decreased with age and use, the loan balance should also 
reduce alongside. However, if the agreement was extended, our investigator said the 
value of the car may be less than the balance outstanding on the loan. He said if the 
agreement was to have been extended, but Mr P remained in arrears, this might have 
meant that Moneybarn didnt have a reasonable chance of recovering the cost of the 
loan if the car was repossessed and the agreement cancelled. Our investigator said it 
wasnt unreasonable that Moneybarn had taken the action that it had.
In regard to the payment plan, our investigator said the proposal of £158pm payment 
plan hadnt been put into place, but this had been the amount that had been required to ensure the arrears were cleared by the time the agreement had come to an end. He 
said that, without up to date information as to Mr Ps income and expenses, Moneybarn 
hadnt been able to work out what was affordable for Mr P.
The investigator also said that Moneybarn had been entitled to look at the income and 
expenses form that it had, as Mr P hadnt provided it with any new forms. He said he 
thought Moneybarn had acted fairly and had assisted Mr P in going forward and keeping 
the car.
Mr P disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said there had been a payment plan 
for a £158pm, and this had been based on an old income and expenses form, and he 
disagreed that Moneybarn had asked for any new form. He disagreed that it was fair not to 
extend the agreement and said hed experienced this happening in the past. Mr P said 
that the £158pm payment plan had been implemented, because it was the only option 
hed been given to keep the car.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to 
me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Although Mr P had raised a number of matters in his complaint against Moneybarn, I 
hadnt answered every point, such as the dates payments were due, because I didnt think 
they were the important issues here. Id also seen that Mr P had said he didnt think 
reasonable and proportionate checks had been carried out by Moneybarn when hed first 
entered the credit agreement, to ensure it was affordable for him. But affordability was a 
new matter which Mr P hadnt raised with Moneybarn before. It wouldnt be fair for me to 
look at that unless Mr P had complained first to Moneybarn to allow it to investigate. So, 
what I had concentrated on was whether Moneybarn had acted fairly and with forbearance 
when Mr P experienced financial difficulties.
Mr P had always wanted to keep the car and Id seen that he had been able to do so with 
the assistance of Moneybarn. Id also seen that this agreement had ended in October 
2021. Mr P had been keeping to the £158pm payment plan in addition to the contractual 
payments, but he said this had been ended by mutual agreement between himself and 
Moneybarn around April 2020, due to the impact of the pandemic. Mr P had then 
resumed the contractual payments from December 2020. This meant that in October 
2021 there had been £4,950.27 arrears and a further £727.94 not yet due. Mr P had paid 
a total £15,656.02.
Mr P said that in December 2021 hed made a payment of £236.59 towards the arrears 
and it was his intention to continue paying that amount each month until the arrears 
were cleared. I understood this wasnt an agreed payment plan, but an amount Mr P 
considered was affordable for him in the longer term.
Looking at the notes made by Moneybarn regarding the contact it had with Mr P 
concerning his account, Id seen that a payment plan for £158pm had been put in place 
from September 2019. I also didnt think that Moneybarn disputed this was what had 
happened. The figure of £158pm to clear the arrears appeared to have been reached 
because this amount meant that when the agreement ended in October 2021, the full 
balance would be paid off.
I was also satisfied that Moneybarn had made it clear to Mr P that paying the arrears off at 
£36pm wasnt workable in the long term, due to the length of time that would take. I 
thought it was fair for Moneybarn to have pointed that out. I thought it would have been 
reasonable for Mr P to have expected that by July 2019, when the three month payment 
plan was ending, payments towards the arrears would have needed to substantially increase otherwise other options would need to be considered, such as terminating the 
agreement early. Id seen that Moneybarn had advised Mr P that he would need to 
prepare a new income and expenditure form and send that in for a July 2019 review.
Mr P said that Moneybarn had unfairly in August 2019 when it put the £158pm payment 
plan for the arrears in place as it had used out of date income and expense figures. Id 
seen that there were two calls between Mr P and Moneybarn on the same day in August 
2019. During the first call Mr P had confirmed there was no change to his income and 
outgoings, but had offered to increase payments to clear the arrears to £100pm. 
Moneybarn said that wasnt sufficient and that exit options needed to be looked at, or that 
Mr P needed to produce a new income and expenses form that showed a larger 
disposable amount was available to him. I thought this call would have put a lot of 
pressure on Mr P.
A second call was made one hour later by Mr P to Moneybarn. Mr P had again been 
taken through his income and expenses as set out in the form hed provided in January 
2019. This time his disposable income was found to be £160pm. Looking at Mr Ps 
complaint letter he had appeared to agree that this was his disposable income at that 
time. While I accepted no new income and expenses form had been produced this was 
because Mr P hadnt submitted a new one, despite this being raised with him in April 
2019. Id also seen he had confirmed there hadnt been any changes. So, I didnt think it 
was unfair for Moneybarn to look at the figures that it had for Mr P.
However, I thought Moneybarn had been inflexible as to its requirement that the payment 
plan had to be for £158pm or the agreement terminated, and the car returned. It told Mr P 
there would be no further payment plans put in place and that it would serve him with a 
default notice if this wasnt kept too. I thought it was fair to say Mr P had no option but to 
agree, since keeping the car was important to him. I thought that since Mr P had been 
offering to pay £100pm it would have been fair for Moneybarn to have looked at this offer 
more closely and considered extending the agreements term.
While I accepted that extending the agreement while Mr P was paying off the arrears at 
£36pm would have been unreasonable, since the agreement would need to be extended 
by over 100 months, I thought Moneybarn could have looked at extending it for a few 
months when Mr P had offered to increase that amount to £100pm. However, I also 
thought it would have been fair for Moneybarn to have considered a maximum length of 
any extension, bearing in mind the value of the car and the size of the arrears. It also had 
to be satisfied that any payment plan was viable for Mr P in the longer term.
I thought £158pm towards the arrears was too high for Mr P to afford from a disposable 
income of £160pm. It had left him with only £2.00pm to cover any other expenditure. I 
thought meeting this amount, particularly as hed been told it wouldnt be reviewed again, 
would have caused him distress and unreasonable financial pressure. I didnt think 
Moneybarn had acted fairly in the way it set the amount Mr P had to pay off the arrears, 
as well as meeting the monthly contractual payments, since I thought it was clear he 
would struggle to do so.
I therefore intended to uphold Mr Ps complaint as I was satisfied that Moneybarn had 
acted unfairly in the way it had set the payment plan to £158pm, in addition to the 
contractual monthly payment. I also thought this had caused Mr P unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience.
So, although I appreciated Moneybarn had enabled Mr P to keep the car, I thought it had 
acted unfairly when setting the amount of the payment plan. I thought that compensation 
for Mr P was due to the impact of Moneybarns handling of the payment plan would be fair. Id seen that Mr P made around seven monthly payments of £158 and I therefore 
think compensation of £350 would be fair to reflect the period of time he would have 
struggled to make those payments.
While I appreciated Mr P had set a monthly amount he said was affordable I thought a 
new income and expenses form should be completed by him for an appropriate payment 
plan to be agreed between Mr P and Moneybarn to clear off the remaining balance. Id 
seen Mr P no longer wished to use the organisation that had competed the income and 
expenses form before. 
Mr P agrees with my provisional decision. Moneybarn has voiced some concerns over the 
affordability of the credit agreement going forward and have asked if Mr P can complete a 
new income and expenses form in order for a suitable and appropriate payment rate to be 
set.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has requested me to reconsider any parts of my provisional decision, 
I still reviewed the evidence and my reasons for reaching the conclusion that I did. After 
doing so, I havent changed my view. I still think Moneybarn acted unfairly in the way it set 
the payment plan for the arrears and Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Unfortunately, the pandemic has led to further payments being missed and I understand the 
arrears now stand at £5,204.01. I think Moneybarn is acting responsibly to raise concerns 
about the potential length of time it will take Mr P to clear the account and that this likely to 
have a lasting impact on his credit file. I think it is fair in these circumstances that a new 
income and expenses form is completed by Mr P and I would expect him to co-operate with 
that in order that a suitable payment plan for the arrears can be set up.
Putting things right
I am asking Moneybarn to pay Mr P £350 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused meeting the unfair payment plan. Im also asking it to agree an 
appropriate payment plan with Mr P for the outstanding arrears once a new income and 
expenses form has been completed by him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. I am asking Moneybarn No.1 
Limited to pay Mr P £350 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
meeting the unfair payment plan. Im also asking it to agree an appropriate payment plan 
with Mr P for the outstanding arrears once a new income and expenses form has been 
completed by him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman