DRN-3515701
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society asked him to provide a reason as to why 
he was looking to make a CHAPS payment.
What happened
Mr W wanted to make a CHAPS payment and visited a Nationwide to do so. However, when 
giving the payment instructions to one of Nationwides branch staff, the staff member asked 
Mr W for the reason he was wanting to make that payment, and also indicated that they 
wouldnt be able to proceed with the payment unless Mr W explained his reason for wanting 
to make it. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ws complaint. They explained that questions such as the one 
asked by their staff member were designed to try to mitigate against the possibility of 
potential scams and to ensure that customers transactions were legitimate. Because of this, 
Nationwide didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly or unreasonably by asking Mr W the question 
that they had, and they didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
Nationwide had acted unfairly towards Mr W, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Mr W has already contacted the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) about this matter, and having done so has questioned whether Nationwide 
have a legal basis to ask him why he was wanting to make the payment in branch. And I 
also note that Mr W would like this service to instruct Nationwide to change their operating 
procedure so that customers can decline to answer such questions without consequence.
I can appreciate Mr Ws position here, but while this service takes relevant rules and laws 
into account, it must be noted that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law. As 
such, it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business to change how it operates, 
or to make a decision on the legality of an issue. Instead, as an informal dispute resolution 
service, our remit is to consider all the circumstances of a complaint and decide whether we 
feel a fair outcome has occurred or not.
In this instance, considering what took place here, I dont feel that Nationwide have acted 
unfairly towards Mr W here. And I say this because Nationwide have confirmed that their 
branch staff are instructed to ask such questions as part of their wider measures to protect 
their customers against potential scams, including those where a customer may have been 
coerced or tricked into making a CHAPS payment to an illegitimate destination. 
Nationwides position here seems reasonable to me, and Im aware that many other financial 
institutions employ similar screening measures with the protection of their customers money 
in mind. As such I dont feel that it was unfair for Nationwide to have asked Mr W why he 
wanted to make the transfer he was instructing, or to have suggested they might be unwilling 
to proceed with the transfer, if Mr W couldnt provide a valid reason for wanting to make it.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Nationwide to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that might not be the outcome Mr W was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman