DRN-2799022
The complaint
Ms B complains about the advice she was given by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) each
time she discussed with it how to manage her mortgage during a period of unemployment. 
She says she was never told how her choices would impact her repayment plans.
  
What happened
Ms B has a repayment mortgage with YBS. She was made redundant in August 2018. In
November, she contacted YBS to discuss her mortgage. Having discussed this with an
advisor, she found she had a sizeable credit on her mortgage, and she could make
payments using this credit. She arranged to do that, initially only until January 2019. This
arrangement was then repeatedly extended while Ms B was looking for a new job, and then
when she had a period of ill health.
Ms B says that she now knows that this will result in much higher mortgage payments. Her
mortgage was previously around £1000 a month, now its up to around £1,240. And she
says that this also means her previous plans to pay off the mortgage at the end of the
current fixed term are now impossible. Ms B says that she wouldnt have taken up this option
if it had been properly explained to her.
YBS said it didnt think things had been explained properly to Ms B over the phone. But it
said that the letters it had sent her set out that while she wasnt making monthly payments,
her balance would increase. And that, in turn, would mean mortgage payments would
increase in the future. It didnt think it had actually made any mistakes in what it had done
with Ms Bs mortgage, but it did think it shouldve done a better job of explaining this. So it
sent Ms B a payment of £180 as compensation.
Ms B said that she wouldve done something different if shed realised what the impact was
of using the existing credit. She said that she wouldve switched her mortgage to something
more affordable, or asked her family for financial help. She said shes now had the treatment
she needed, and has returned to work, although on a lower salary than before.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Ms B had
arranged a payment holiday with YBS, and had repeatedly extended that arrangement. Our
investigator thought that YBS advice was poor, and although Ms B was speaking to YBS
regularly, she wasnt told for some time how this would affect her mortgage. There was
some information on the impact this arrangement would have in the letters YBS sent.
Our investigator said that what YBS had done fit with the terms of Ms Bs mortgage. So she
didnt think YBS had acted unfairly in how it had handled her mortgage.
Our investigator thought YBS shouldve explained the full implications of the payment
holiday to Ms B earlier. But she still thought Ms B wouldve gone ahead with this
arrangement if she had been properly informed. She said Ms B had told us she wouldve
used redundancy money to cover the mortgage, but this had been used to pay bills and buy
groceries. So our investigator thought that Ms B might actually have been much worse off
later, if shed used her redundancy payments to cover her mortgage initially.
Because of that, she thought that YBSs payment of £180 provided a fair and reasonable
outcome to this complaint.
Ms B said she was very disappointed, and she thought wed got some things wrong. She
said that she was told her credit was being used to make payments, and her balance would
continue to reduce. She said she couldve changed to a lower rate mortgage. She told us
that she entered into a four-year fixed term agreement in 2018 and expected that after this
time she would only have £12,000 left to pay off her mortgage. She was putting away
savings, and intending to pay the remaining amount of the mortgage off as a lump sum. This
was part of her retirement plan. She says this will no longer be possible.
Ms B said that a lot of the reassurances YBS had given us didnt fit at all with her recollection
of the calls she had, and she wanted us to listen to her calls with YBS.
YBS said that it understood from the call Ms B had with it on 28 November 2018 that shed
received a small pay out but this had gone and she was relying on savings. And it said that
on a call on 31 January 2019 it had informed Ms B that when using a credit balance for
suspended mortgage payments the balance would increase resulting in increased mortgage
payments. But YBS said Ms B still chose to suspend her payments further on 27 March
2019, 13 June 2019 and 2 September 2019.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When this complaint came to me, I asked YBS to send us the calls it had with Ms B. 
Its been able to send us a call from November 2018, and another from January 
2019. Having listened to those, Ive reached a different conclusion on this complaint 
to our investigator.
Ms B had a repayment mortgage. So for each contractual monthly payment she 
made, part of that payment went towards the interest on the borrowing, and part went 
towards the outstanding debt. If she makes overpayments, then that works differently 
 the interest for that month is already paid, so the whole of the overpayment comes 
off the outstanding balance. All of the overpayment money reduces how much she 
owes, and it also has the added benefit of reducing the amount she has borrowed, so 
the interest part of her contractual monthly payment is then smaller too.
Before she was made redundant, Ms B had used overpayments to greatly reduce the 
overall amount she owed, which would mean her mortgage would be paid off much 
faster. She anticipated paying off the mortgage in 2022 with a lump sum, which she 
was saving.
After speaking to YBS, Ms B then started to use those overpayments to cover her 
monthly payments. (Ill come back to whether or not I think Ms B was properly 
informed about this choice.) So the money that had previously been used entirely to 
reduce her outstanding balance was eroded. Each month, YBS took some of that 
money, and used it to pay the monthly payment.
If Ms B had overpaid £1,000, that had reduced her debt by £1,000. Once that money 
is used to cover a monthly payment, some of it has to go to cover the monthly interest. The example below simplifies things somewhat, but it might be helpful in 
flagging up the most important impacts of this. So, if Ms B had contractual monthly 
payments of £1,000, of which roughly £150 per month was interest, then using her 
pre-existing overpayment of £1,000 to cover a monthly payment will mean 
1) her debt goes up by £1,000 as the overpayment is taken off, so it can be 
used in a different way, then
2) that £1,000 is divided between interest and capital. £150 goes to interest, 
and the remainder pays off the capital on her mortgage, which means
3) the end result is that, after this one month, Ms Bs overall debt doesnt go 
down, as it was doing each month when she was making her contractual 
monthly payment. Instead, it is £150 more than before.
Obviously, if this goes on for several months, as it did here, it can have a significant 
effect on the amount owed on the mortgage.
Ms B complains that this now means her retirement plans are no longer feasible, and 
says if this had all been explained to her, she wouldve used her redundancy 
payments to meet the mortgage costs.
YBS has queried that. It says that it doesnt think she had a £14,000 redundancy 
package she couldve used to pay her mortgage. Its notes say that on 28 November 
2018 she told YBS that shed made redundant in August 2018 and received a small 
pay out, but this had gone and she was relying on savings.
But what I can hear on this call is slightly different. Ms B had been using her savings 
and redundancy money, and she did say this wouldnt last, so she was concerned 
that she might have difficulty making her payment for January. But she was also 
clear that she could still make that months payment.
I can also hear on this call that Ms B was making decisions about where to spend her
money. She appeared relieved at the end of this call, that she would still be able to 
pay for an expensive item her family wanted, which wasnt a necessity.
Ms B was given very poor advice indeed on this call. The call operator compared her
overpayments on her mortgage to overpaying on a utilities bill, and said that the
overpayment could simply be used to cover the next months payment. As Ive 
explained, it doesnt work like that at all.
YBS also said that on 31 January 2019 it told Ms B that when using a credit balance 
for suspended mortgage payments the balance would increase resulting in increased 
mortgage payments. But it said that Ms B still chose to suspend her payments further 
on 27 March 2019, 13 June 2019 and 2 September 2019.
Ms B was told at the time that her mortgage payments would go up by around £16 
per month. Ms B wasnt concerned about that, she said that was neither here nor 
there. I dont think that means Ms B had been warned about the overall impact on 
her mortgage.
But I also need to bear in mind that Ms B unfortunately lost a well-paid job, in August 
2018. Her familys income was significantly reduced as a result. And a combination of 
a difficult job market and her own ill health meant she didnt get back into work until 
after the start of 2020.That leaves a long time, when Ms B wasnt able to pay her contractual monthly 
payments, of around £1,000 per month, towards her mortgage. I know that Ms B 
says she couldve used her redundancy payments, and help from family, to cover 
this. But I think its unlikely that she couldve covered this amount per month, each 
month, from summer 2018 right through into 2020. I think that, at some point, Ms B 
wouldve ended up using the existing credit on her mortgage to cover her payments.
And that means I dont think that YBS has to put Ms B in the position she wouldve 
been in if all of the contractual monthly payments she missed after November 2018, 
had been made.
But I dont think that Ms B, if she had been properly advised of the impact of this, 
wouldve chosen to start using her mortgage credit to cover her payments as early as 
November 2018.
Ms B was obviously in a difficult and unenviable position then, after the loss of a well-
paid job. So she had some very tough decisions to make, about the extent to which 
she and her family had to tighten their belts. And I think that, at this critical point, Ms 
B was misled by what YBS told her, into thinking that she could use the credits on 
her mortgage without it really making any difference to her financial position. So she 
felt she didnt have to tighten her belt, and explain this to the family, quite as much as 
shed feared. I think this is clear from the discussion at the end of the call, about the 
family expense Ms B had thought shed have to refuse to pay.
Ms B said in November that she could cover her payments for November and 
December. She seemed concerned then about Januarys payment. But shes also 
told us she couldve asked family for help, which she didnt do. I think its likely that if 
Ms B had been properly advised, she wouldnt have started using credit to cover her 
monthly mortgage payments until she had to. And, taking account of everything she 
told us, I think she would probably have been in a position where she had to do that, 
in April 2019.
So I think that YBS should rework this mortgage now, to show that Ms Bs contractual
monthly payments were made for November 2018 through to March 2019, and she 
started using credit to cover her payments in April 2019.
Ms B will still owe more on this mortgage than if she had been in work, and had been 
able to cover her contractual monthly payments for all of 2019 and 2020. But I think 
her position will then be more akin to where shed have found herself now, if money 
that was spent on family expenses had been redirected to her mortgage in the earlier 
part of her period of unemployment.
I know that YBS has already paid Ms B some compensation for its poor advice. But 
this additional redress also helps to make up for the impact that I think that advice 
had. So, I think reworking the mortgage in this way, plus the payment of £180 YBS 
has made to Ms B, will provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Ms B didnt reply. YBS sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.YBS was unhappy with my proposal. It said the overpayments on Ms Bs mortgage resulted 
from two large payments, of £8,000 in 2013 and £7,150 in 2014. YBS said that the balance 
of Ms Bs mortgage was reduced immediately those payments were made, and this was 
reflected in the annual mortgage statements issued to Ms B.
YBS said that when Ms B contacted it on 28 November 2018, it confirmed that there was a 
credit balance of £15,150. Arrangements were made to suspend the direct debits for 
December 2018 to February 2019. And YBS said Ms B understood that by using the credit to 
pay the mortgage payments, the credit amount would reduce.
YBS said Id suggested it rework the mortgage to show that payments were made between 
November 2018 and March 2019 inclusive. It said Ms B had paid for November 2018. And it 
noted that Ms B wouldve had to pay an early repayment charge if she had paid off her 
mortgage in 2022 with a lump sum, as she hoped to do. It didnt say how much this would 
be.
YBS said it wanted to repeat that, whilst it agreed it hadnt provided Ms B with adequate 
information during the call on 28 November 2018, it did make her aware of the impact this 
would have on the call it had with her on 31 January 2019. And the letters sent to Ms B each 
time a payment holiday was arranged also confirmed this.
YBS said that Ms B had told us she could have asked family for help but she didnt say that 
to YBS at the time. And she still didnt do this after she spoke to YBS on 31 January 2019, 
instead she arranged a further payment holiday on 27 March 2019.
YBS said that to avoid arrears on the mortgage, Ms Bs contractual monthly mortgage 
payments would have had to be met during the time when she wasnt in employment  either 
with assistance from family, or by utilising the credit balance on the account. YBS wanted to 
stress that these contractual payments were always due to be met by Ms B.
YBS said it would be willing to rework the account in the way Id suggested, if Ms B made 
the mortgage payments which were due for December 2018 to March 2019. But YBS didnt 
think it should be responsible for paying these four mortgage payments for Ms B, which 
would be the result of my proposed resolution. 
If Ms Bs payment for November 2018 was made, then YBS doesnt need to include that in 
the reworking Im proposing for her mortgage. But otherwise, Ive not changed my mind. 
Ive listened again to the relevant calls, and I dont think that the history of this case that YBS 
has set out is quite the same as my understanding of what happened. I think that YBS not 
only failed to provide Ms B with adequate information on the call she had with it in 
November. It also actively misled Ms B on that call, because it gave her an entirely 
inaccurate reassurance about how using credits to cover her payments would work. 
YBS said that Ms B would always have had to pay her mortgage between December 2018 
and March 2019, and it suggests she wouldve had to borrow that money from family, or to 
use the credit on her mortgage. So it didnt think it should be responsible for those 
payments. But I dont think thats quite right. 
I set out in my provisional decision that Ms B had lost a well-paid job. Her husband was still 
working, but the familys income was reduced. So she had to make some difficult decisions 
at that time about how much she and her family would have to tighten their belts. And its my 
view that, because YBS gave Ms B incorrect reassurances about how using the credit on her 
mortgage worked, Ms B made different decisions than she would have done if shed been 
given accurate advice. Ms B doesnt have this money now. Its been spent on ordinary day to day living. And Im 
satisfied that Ms B and her family wouldve budgeted differently if YBS hadnt made its 
mistake. 
YBS says that it then did give Ms B correct advice on her call in late January. Im afraid I 
dont agree with that either. I can hear that this call handler did try to set out for Ms B how 
using her credits worked. The advice on this call was by no means as misleading as on the 
earlier call. But unfortunately it also wasnt enough to put right the mistakes YBS had made 
earlier on, and make sure that Ms B properly understood what was happening on her 
mortgage. I would not have expected YBS call handler to realise just how much Ms B had 
been misled on an earlier call, so its perhaps not surprising that the call handler didnt 
correct that earlier mistake. But the effect on Ms B is still the same.
I hope my explanation above sets out why I think the mistakes made by YBS in this case are 
more serious than its response to our service might suggest. And thats why I do think its 
appropriate to ask YBS to rework Ms Bs mortgage so that it shows that payments for 
December 2018 to March 2019 were made. I realise this makes YBS responsible for those 
payments. I think thats part of providing a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Yorkshire Building Society must rework Ms Bs mortgage, to show 
that Ms Bs contractual monthly payments were made for December 2018 through to March 
2019, and she started using credit to cover her payments in April 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman