DRN-3336431
The complaint
Mr B complains that @SIPP LIMITED provided inaccurate annual statements for his Self-
invested Personal Pension, has not invoiced him correctly and has taken charges from his 
SIPP that are not due. 
What happened
Mr B has had a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with @SIPP since 2015. In 2020 he 
raised a number of issues about the way @SIPP dealt with his account, including that: 
@SIPP structured his SIPP as a plan for someone who is not advised, but he does 
have financial advice;
he did not receive his 2020 annual review;
VAT was added to the charges even though he doesnt live in an EU country;
before he could consider transferring his funds to another provider, all fees applied 
incorrectly would need to be refunded.
@SIPP said that he did not have an independent financial adviser (IFA) attached to his 
SIPP and so was charged on that basis. It said VAT was being charged correctly, he had 
been given details of the charges on his plan, and when he didnt pay the charges himself, 
funds were taken to cover these in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr B was still unhappy and said he had not received an accurate invoice but @SIPP 
maintained that it had acted correctly, and said VAT had to be charged as its services were 
provided in the UK.
When Mr B referred his complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said:
@SIPP had acted in line with its terms and conditions and provided details of its 
charging structure to Mr B.
There had been an error on one occasion where charges were taken twice, but this 
had been put right and the funds repaid to Mr B.
she wasnt able to confirm whether VAT should be charged, but Mr B could contact 
HMRC about this and provide any further information he obtained to @SIPP to 
consider.
Mr B remains unhappy and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Amongst other things, 
he says the 2020 annual review is not accurate, he has been overcharged, he should not 
have to pay VAT, and the way @SIPP communicated with him involved passing his personal 
data to a third party without his consent. He would like @SIPP to correct the annual 
statement, stop charging a higher fee for him not having an IFA, stop charging VAT, and 
communicate with him by email. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
@SIPPs terms and conditions set out the different types of SIPPs offered and the charges 
for each. Mr B has an execution only SIPP. This means no advice is given and @SIPP only 
administers the SIPP for him. It was opened on this basis as he did not have an IFA involved 
 as set out in the application he completed at the time. He did not provide details of an IFA 
to @SIPP. If he had done so, the SIPP would have been set up differently, with the IFAs 
details included. 
I appreciate Mr B says he could be considered to be giving himself advice, or to have an IFA 
whose details were not added to the SIPP. But that doesnt alter the fact he applied for and 
opened an execution only SIPP with no IFA involved.
The terms and conditions for Mr Bs SIPP set out the basis on which @SIPP charges its 
customers, and the charges themselves are set out in the fee schedule. The annual 
administration fee and any other fees or charges that become due are deducted from the 
individuals fund when they become payable. If there is not enough cash available, the terms 
allow @SIPP to sell investments within the pension plan to cover the charges. The fee 
schedule shows that for the type of plan Mr B has, some charges are higher where there is 
no IFA. 
The terms also allow @SIPP to make changes to the fees in some circumstances, including 
to:
reflect the way its services are used and ensure the costs of those services are 
allocated fairly among clients;
respond to changes in the Bank of England base rate, other specified market rates or 
tax rates;
reflect the costs of increases or reductions in the capital it needs to hold due to 
changes in the law or regulatory requirements; 
ensure it can continue to offer a competitive and sustainable service.
The fees have changed since Mr B first opened his SIPP. When @SIPP changed the 
charging structure in 2017, it sent a letter explaining the changes. Mr B complained about 
this increase and it agreed to reduce the fee for him in 2018 to the advised fee. @SIPP has 
also agreed in the past to invoice Mr B and allow him to pay that invoice directly rather than 
have funds deducted. However, the terms and conditions to allow it to deduct fees. 
@SIPP has explained that the annual review sent in April 2020, including the administration 
fee invoice, was sent to Mr B by email. And the covering letter said if it did not hear from him 
within 14 days it would take action to recover the fees, which might include disinvesting to 
meet this fee.
@SIPP was entitled to sell assets from his investment to cover the costs if Mr B hadnt 
replied to the fee invoice within 14 days. Due to an error, two payments of £375.60 were 
taken, but @SIPP returned the extra charge, so this was rectified. 
Mr B says he didnt receive the invoice. From the information Ive seen, I am satisfied an 
invoice was sent. Hes unhappy @SIPP used an online portal, as he says this involved 
passing his data to a third party. Its for @SIPP to decide how to communicate, and I think 
using a secure portal would be reasonable if it protects the security of his information. As 
Mr B didnt want to use that method, the invoice was sent by email instead. So @SIPP did 
try to accommodate his communication preferences. 
Overall, I think the way @SIPP has dealt with the charges is reasonable. 
Mr B is unhappy that VAT has been added to the charges. He has referred to government 
guidance on VAT and says it would be out of scope as he lives abroad. @SIPP says it provides services in the UK and has to charge VAT unless providing services to someone 
who is VAT registered in the EU. It wouldnt be for me to determine whether, for tax 
purposes, the services should be exempt from VAT, or to direct @SIPP not to charge VAT. It 
may be something Mr B can raise with HMRC to see if he can reclaim the VAT.
Finally, Mr B is upset that @SIPP referred to him moving his @SIPP elsewhere. I dont think 
@SIPP was trying to get him to move; rather, this was an offer to him that if he was unhappy 
and wanted to move, it would waive the normal charge for this. I think that was reasonable in 
circumstances. 
Taking all of the above circumstances into account I think the way @SIPP has administered 
Mr Bs SIPP and charged him for it is in line with the terms and conditions and is reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman