DRN-4332482
The complaint
As complaint is about a claim it made on its HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) business 
insurance policy.
HDI declined the claim and voided the policy on the basis that A had made a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation when it took out cover.
This complaint is brought by Mr D on As behalf. 
All references to HDI in this decision include their claims handlers. 
What happened
A took out a business insurance policy with HDI. When doing so it was asked several 
questions about whether it had a written health and safety policy, if it carried out a full health 
and safety risk assessment at contract sites, whether health and safety training was given to 
employees and if so whether it was recorded and whether it supplied and enforced the use 
of personal protective equipment (PPE) where required. Mr D, on behalf of A, answered yes 
to all of those questions.
During the policy year, a claim was made against A by one of its labourers in relation to a fall 
on the site A was working on. Mr D claimed against the policy. HDI appointed a loss adjuster 
to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster interviewed Mr D and got in touch with the 
labourer. After considering both accounts and the documents provided by A, the loss 
adjuster concluded that A hadnt answered the questions put to it correctly when it took the 
insurance out. Consequently, HDI said they would never have offered A cover if the 
questions had been answered correctly, so voided the policy. They did however agree to 
return As premium to it. 
Mr D feels the decision HDI reached was wrong and that the loss adjuster misinterpreted the 
information he gave. He also says that he did answer the questions asked of him correctly 
when he took out the cover. 
Our investigator considered As complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said that 
As health and safety policy required the labourer to be wearing PPE and this wasnt the 
case when the incident the claim arose out of occurred, and the loss adjuster confirmed with 
Mr D that the labourer was working under his control.  Because of this, the investigator 
thought it was fair for HDI to have declined the claim and voided the policy on the basis that 
Mr D had misrepresented the position when taking out the insurance which HDI would not 
have provided cover for. 
 Mr D doesnt agree. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When A took its policy out with HDI, the relevant law was the Insurance Act 2015, under 
which theres a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. This duty would equally have 
applied at each renewal of the policy. When buying or renewing the policy the party seeking 
insurance  in this case, A  was required to disclose every circumstance it knew, or should 
have known about, which would influence a prudent insurer in deciding whether to 
underwrite a risk or what premium to charge. In addition to the legal position, the documents 
provided to A made clear how important it was to provide relevant information. 
Mr D doesnt dispute that he was under a duty to provide material evidence on behalf of A 
when taking out the cover. And he was specifically asked to confirm whether A supplied and 
enforced the use of PPE where required, to which he answered yes. 
Mr D has said that a health and safety policy was in force, which was adhered to on site on 
the day of the incident because a complete visual risk assessment was carried out. But the 
risk assessment for the site refers to the requirement for PPE including hard hats, gloves hi 
visibility vests and safety harnesses. In addition, the Method Statement Ive seen refers to 
people carrying out the activity the labourer was at the time of the incident needing to wear 
full body harness and lanyard attached to horizontal rails above. As I understand it, the 
labourer wasnt wearing any of the items mentioned in either the risk assessment or the 
Method statement at the time the incident took place, including a full body harness. 
I appreciate that Mr D doesnt agree with the account the loss adjuster recorded of their 
conversations with him. In particular, he disputes saying the labourer wasnt wearing PPE 
because of extremely hot weather- as a justification for it- but rather that he surmised this 
must have been the case. Hes gone on to tell the Financial Ombudsman Service that he 
had no control over what the labourer was wearing at the time the incident took place 
because he told him to wait for instructions rather than go ahead with the activity that caused 
the injury, but the labourer went ahead of his own accord. Whilst this might be right, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Mr D disputes what the loss adjuster said he told them during 
his account of the incident. I note the report concludes Mr D concedes that the (labourer) 
was working under his control, using tools and equipment which he had provided. 
So even if it were the case that the labourer decided to carry out the activity of his own 
accord, I think its right that he would still have been working under Mr Ds control, who was 
on site at the time the incident occurred. And the requirement was for the labourer to have 
been wearing appropriate PPE, including a full body harness attached to horizontal rails 
which wasnt the case at the time of the incident. Given that wasnt the case, and taking into 
account the statements in the form that A was asked to confirm when taking out cover, the 
warnings about disclosing information, the need to say if anything was incorrect, and the 
wider legal duty to disclose anything that would influence the insurers decision about 
offering cover, my judgment is that A should have reasonably answered no to the question 
about enforcing the use of PPE. So, this should have been disclosed. By not telling HDI 
about this, A mispresented the risk and failed to meet its legal duty  whether the duty of 
utmost good faith or the duty make a fair presentation of the risk.
If the insured party fails to disclose this kind of circumstance, and the insurer can show it
would not have offered the policy if it had been disclosed, its entitled to void the policy. And
if the breach was deliberate or reckless, it doesnt have to refund the premium to the insured.
Ive considered whether HDI has shown As failure to disclose it wouldnt always enforce the 
use of PPE would have made a difference. The information Ive seen strongly suggests this 
would have been the case. From what Ive seen answering no to the question wouldnt 
have yielded any quotes for insurance being offered at all in these circumstances. HDI has 
said thats because it would have considered the to it risk as unacceptable to them. So, 
cover wouldnt be offered. I appreciate that Mr D might not have intended to allow labourers onto site to engage in the 
activities set out within its risk assessments without adequate PPE, but A was ultimately 
responsible for enforcing this. And given that HDI have returned the policy premium to A, I 
think this accords with the misrepresentation being careless rather than deliberate or 
reckless, as first contended by HDI. Thats because HDI would have been entitled to 
withhold the policy premium if the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. In this case 
Im satisfied that it was careless at the least, so I think the return of the premium was more 
than reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Taking account of the relevant law, the policy terms and all the circumstances, I think HDIs
decision was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold As complaint against HDI Global Specialty SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman