DRN-3186886
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent him to the branch unnecessarily, which he 
incurred costs for. Mr A says Lloyds also didnt allow him to make payments from his 
account.
Mr A is represented by his assistant in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made by Mr A himself.
What happened
On 18 December 2020, Mr A rang Lloyds as his mobile banking application (app) was 
showing his account was restricted and he couldnt make any payments. The call handler 
informed Mr A that his password had been revoked either because he had entered incorrect 
information or he had previously had fraud on his account.
Mr A disputed this as he was able to log into his mobile app, but he wasnt able to make a 
payment and asked to be transferred to the fraud department. He was told there would be a 
30-40 minute wait. On the second call, Mr A was told by the call handler that she was unable 
to remove the block on the call and he needed to visit the branch with identification. Mr A 
disputed this as he explained to the call handler that hed been told this before and when he 
spoke to a manager they apologised for telling him this, but he had went to the branch 
recently with his identification when there had been fraud on his account.
The call handler explained that although last time Mr A was able to get the account 
reinstated, this time he hadnt passed security, so she couldnt help him reinstate his account 
on the phone and that was why he had to visit the branch.
Mr A visited a branch the following day. The branch contacted the fraud department. Lloyds 
explained to Mr A they thought that somebody had been impersonating him on the phone as 
he wasnt able to answer security questions, including the recent fraudulent activity on the 
account. 
Mr A was given a one time passcode and was told he needed to enter this into their desktop 
website. As the branch had since closed, Mr A was unable to complete the process in 
branch. Mr A was unable to get full access to his account, so he rang back Lloyds. The call 
handler reiterated to Mr A that he hadnt clicked on the link on the desktop site, but Mr A said 
he had. The call handler said she could see from the audit trail he wasnt using the link on 
the desktop site and thats why the process didnt work. The call was disconnected shortly 
after.
Mr A was able to follow the process which then removed the restriction on his account. He 
rang back Lloyds who confirmed that the block had been removed successfully earlier that 
afternoon (19 December 2020).
Mr A complained to Lloyds. He said he was misadvised about needing to go into the branch 
when he could remove the restriction without doing so. Lloyds did not uphold his complaint. 
They said that as Mr A was previously a victim of fraud and the person who rang them on 18 
December 2020 at 19:27, couldnt verify themselves based on the answers to the security 
questions, then this is why he was asked to go into branch.
Mr A complained to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She said she 
had listened to all of the calls and it appeared there was a misunderstanding why he was 
asked to visit the branch. She said as Mr A had failed the security questions, thats the 
reason he had been asked into branch to identify himself.
In regards to the original account restriction, our investigator said that Lloyds had confirmed 
a number of times that the only way he could reset his account to allow payments was to 
change the password on the desktop version of Lloyds website. She said that when Mr A 
had rang Lloyds on 19 December 2020, the call handler was able to see that Mr A had 
changed his password, but not on the desktop version. But Lloyds had not acted unfairly 
towards Mr A, therefore she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of points to both Lloyds and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Ive listened to all of the calls Mr A had with Lloyds on 18 December and 19 December 2020. 
I think its clear that at times there has been a breakdown of communication and both parties 
dont understand at times what the other party is trying to explain. 
Mr A explained to the first call handler that he was unable to make a payment. The call 
handler explained to Mr A that he needed to reset his password, either because he had input 
incorrect details or he had had fraud on his account. Mr A disputed this as he was able to log 
into his account and said Im not resetting my password when I can log in just fine. He then 
asks to be transferred to the fraud department, which the call handler does. 
When Mr A speaks to the second call handler, she asks a lot of security questions which Mr 
A is unable to answer. So, as Mr A had recently had fraudulent activity on his account and 
because the caller is unable to answer security questions about the account, the call handler 
asks Mr A to go into the branch with identification so he could be verified.
This is the reason why Mr A had to go into the branch. It was not for the password reset 
itself. Im persuaded that since Mr A could not answer the security questions accurately then 
Lloyds acted fairly by asking Mr A to visit the branch, even if he incurred an expense for 
doing so, as they were concerned that the person who they spoke to on the evening of 18 
December 2020 was not able to answer questions which Mr A should know. 
Lloyds have said that they thought it was a different person which was on the phone to them 
than Mr A and that they thought the voice was different. But Im persuaded that it was Mr A 
who was on the phone to them on both occasions. While there may be a slight difference in 
tone, Im persuaded that this was because Mr A had to wait a prolonged period of time on 
hold and he was clearly frustrated by the time he had spent on the phone by this point.
Im not persuaded that somebody has tried to impersonate Mr A here, which at times Lloyds 
have said they thought could be the case (and especially when he visited a branch the following day). So as Mr A did not pass the security questions, then he would have always 
needed to visit the branch to ensure the safety of his account details wasnt compromised. 
As Mr A visited a branch the following day then Im satisfied it was him on the call (otherwise 
Mr A wouldnt have known he needed to visit a branch if someone else had impersonated 
him). So although this inconvenienced Mr A, I cant say that Lloyds acted unfairly by asking 
him to identify himself in branch when the security questions werent answered correctly. 
Next Ive considered what happened with him speaking to Lloyds about the restriction on the 
account. Lloyds have been clear on the phone calls that Mr A would need to access the 
desktop version of their website to resolve this issue. Mr A had been using the mobile app 
and logging in through this method. But as the call handler confirmed to Mr A on 19 
December, he hadnt been using the desktop version specifically. She offered to go through 
this with Mr A but he was out at the time. The call handler clearly explained to Mr A that he 
needed to click on the desktop website page link, otherwise it wouldnt work. 
So on this point, Im satisfied Mr A would not have needed to go into the branch to do reset 
his account solely, but, because he had failed the security questions on 18 December, this is 
why he had to go into the branch. While he was in the branch, he was able to obtain the one 
time passcode to help him reset his account. Ive not heard any misleading information being 
told to Mr A about how to reset his account. Unfortunately, as the branch had closed he was 
unable to complete the process in branch, however, I have noted that he was able to get the 
whole situation resolved later that day.
In summary, Mr A needed to use the desktop version of Lloyds website to change his details 
so he could fully use his account and make payments and this had been explained to him on 
more than one occasion, by more than one staff member over 18 and 19 December 2020. 
But because he failed the security questions from the fraud department, then he was asked 
to go into the branch. Im satisfied for the reasons Ive already given that Lloyds acted 
reasonably in asking him to do this, especially as he recently had fraudulent activity on his 
account. So it follows I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman