DRN-4481863
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that esure Insurance Limited avoided (treated it as if it never existed) 
her motor insurance policy, refused to pay her claim and retained her policy premiums.
What happened
Mrs D took out a motor insurance policy with esure through an online price comparison site 
and the policy renewed twice. When her car was stolen, she tried to claim on her policy. But 
esure declined her claim, avoided her policy from the start and kept the premiums shed 
already paid. 
When Mrs D complained, it said shed answered the question shed been asked about 
whether the car was imported incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and refuse her 
claim. 
our investigators view
Mrs D brought her complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. He believed it was careless. He said esure should refund Mrs Ds 
premiums in full. 
esure doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It 
said that as Mrs D had said she always bought imported cars then she should have been 
aware of the question about this on the comparison site. It thought she had acted recklessly. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs D 
and to esure on 27 October 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mrs D felt frustrated and disappointed with esures decision. She had 
explained that she lost her No Claims Bonus (NCB) and she now found the cost of new 
insurance extremely high. This was in addition to the loss of her car.  
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy and 
retain the premiums. If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the 
insurer must show it would not have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the 
misrepresentation. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal 
with any claims under it. 
esure thought Mrs D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in her application via a comparison site that her car wasnt imported. And I looked 
at the question she was asked when she completed the application and I agreed she failed 
to take reasonable care. 
This was because she was asked whether her car was imported and given the options of 
answering yes or no. She was then asked to confirm that the car wasnt imported. If Mrs D 
had answered No, then she could have chosen that the car was imported. And I thought 
this was a clear question asked by esure through the comparison site Mrs D used.
Mrs D didnt recall being asked this question. But I was satisfied that it would have been 
included in her online application. Mrs D said all her cars were imported. So I thought she 
should have been aware that the correct answer was No and I thought she answered the 
question incorrectly. And I thought this meant Mrs D failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when she said her car wasnt imported. 
esure had provided evidence from its underwriting guide which showed that if Mrs D had not 
made this misrepresentation it would not have offered cover at all. This meant I was satisfied 
Mrs Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
esure thought Mrs Ds misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. 
This was because it thought Mrs D knew her car was imported, and so it thought she had 
answered the question recklessly. 
But I wasnt satisfied that esure had shown that the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. Mrs D later said she thought shed answered the question correctly. And the policy 
documents esure then provided didnt include any reference to the car not being imported. 
And so Mrs D wasnt provided with an opportunity to check and correct this error. So I 
thought the misrepresentation was careless. 
Therefore, I was satisfied esure was entitled to avoid Mrs Ds 2021 policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. But, as the misrepresentation was careless, I thought it unfairly retained her 
premiums for this year and it should now refund them. 
But Mrs D then renewed her policy twice and her car was stolen in the third policy year. Our 
approach is that when a consumer renews a policy they take out a new consumer insurance 
contract. And the duty for them to take reasonable care not to misrepresent applies again. 
And its for the insurer to prove there was a qualifying misrepresentation at the renewal. 
esure wanted to avoid all three policies. So I checked whether it had proved there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation at the start of each policy. 
Some insurers might argue that if they had the right to avoid the original policy then it didnt 
exist, and so no further contracts (polices) can exist either; meaning it can avoid all the 
subsequent contracts formed at each renewal. We do not think this is correct because, as 
Ive said above, at each renewal the consumer takes out a new insurance contract. I looked at Mrs Ds policy renewal documents. And I couldnt see that the car being imported 
or not was on any of the documents issued for Mrs D to check during the further renewal 
periods. So I was not satisfied Mrs D was asked a clear question at the renewals about 
whether or not the car was imported. And so I couldnt say that Mrs D made a 
misrepresentation in the renewal years that would entitle esure to avoid her policies and 
decline her claim. 
And, as this meant that I thought esure unfairly avoided Mrs Ds policies taken in 2022 and 
2023, then I thought it should reinstate them and remove any records of the avoidance for 
these years. And so I thought it should now deal with Mrs Ds claim following the theft of her 
car. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I 
thought not allowing esure to rely on it to avoid Mrs Ds policy produced the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
This matter caused Mrs D considerable upset. So I thought esure should compensate Mrs D 
for the trouble and upset caused by it unfairly avoiding her policies and declining her claim. I 
thought esure should pay Mrs D £250 compensation for this as this was in keeping with our 
published guidance. 
Subject to any further representations from Mrs D and esure, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D replied that she accepted my provisional decision. esure didnt provide any response. 
So, as Ive not received any further representations to consider, I can see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Refund the premiums for Mrs Ds policy taken out in 2021. 
2. Reinstate Mrs Ds policies taken out in 2022 and 2023, remove any records of their 
avoidance from any databases where they are recorded, and deal with her claim for the 
theft of her car. 
3. Pay Mrs D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
avoidance of her policies and declining her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman