DRN-1419144
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) carried out a hard credit 
search despite telling him it would carry out a soft search.
What happened
On 31 May 2019 Mr B registered for a SDFC and was given a credit limit of £750.00. SDFC 
carried out further checks and decided to remove the credit facility. It wrote to Mr B on the 
same day to notify him of this change. Mr B says he wasnt told that a hard search would be 
carried our and he asked SDFC to remove the entry on his credit file.
SDFC says that it states in its terms and conditions that it will carry out a credit search if a 
consumer applies for credit. It says that it doesnt tell people that it will rely on a soft search. 
SDFC rejected Mr Bs complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She said a business may carry out a soft search to check eligibility for a product. Once an 
account is opened then the lender has a duty to record that information. She noted that Mr B 
had sent a copy of his credit file for July and she asked SDFC why the account hadnt been 
shown as closed. It responded to say that the actual closure took place on 29 August and so 
the account recorded the account as unclassified (U) in May. It then showed it as zero for 
June and July.
She explained that this service would only ask a business to remove inaccurate entries on a 
credit fie. In this case the entries were accurate. Mr B didnt agree and said a hard credit 
search stays on file for 12 months. He said he had spoken to the credit reference agency 
and suggested the account need not be shown where there is no activity or the account is 
not used or is closed. He reiterated that he was given misleading information about the 
search and he had received no explanation why the account had been closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can understand Mr Bs desire to have the account removed, I dont believe I can ask 
SDFC to do so. I will explain why.
In the circumstances of Mr Bs application and the initial opening of the account it was 
reasonable for SDFC to carry out a hard search. While he says he wasnt told this would 
happen I have no supporting evidence to confirm this. SDFC says it doesnt advise 
customers that it will carry out a soft search. So, I cannot safely conclude that Mr B was 
misled.
A persons credit file should show the history of their activity and the entries relating to the 
SDFC account are accurate. It shows the account was opened and then closed. It doesnt show any credit was obtained and I am not aware that it will cause any detriment to his credit 
status. 
SDFC was entitled to make searches in order to open the account and only after that had 
happened did it identify something, of which I am unaware, that caused it to close the 
account. It isnt obliged to explain why it took that commercial decision. 
In summary I can see no reason to conclude that SDFC did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman