DRN-1070411
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1995. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him the 
PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr P that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr P says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Barclaycard has sent us a copy of Mr Ps application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked to show whether he wanted to take it 
out. And the yes box has been ticked.
If Mr P didnt want the PPI, I think he could have ticked the no box. So I think Barclaycard 
did make it clear to him that he had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr P chose to take it, 
knowing he didnt have to.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr P, so it had to check that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
Mr P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full 
sick pay. And hes told us he didnt have any savings or other means he couldve used to 
make his repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclaycard had to give Mr P clear information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr P if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr P off taking it out.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
 
 
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:    Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr P,
     that was unfair.
    To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman