DRN-2416729
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) was unable to prevent fraudulent 
activity on her account.
What happened
Mrs S has an HSBC current account. In August 2019 she was the victim of fraud. Her card 
details were used to make several payments over a period of nearly two weeks which 
totalled over £1,500.
On 9 August 2019 Mrs S contacted HSBC to report the fraudulent activity. It confirmed it 
would block the account and issue her with a new card. It refunded all but one of the 
transactions Mrs S confirmed were fraudulent to the account the same day and the one 
remaining transaction three days later. It later adjusted the refund to re-debit transactions 
Mrs S subsequently confirmed as genuine.
A few days later Mrs S made a complaint that HSBC had allowed the fraud to take place. 
Mrs S has said, and the banks notes from the time indicate, that:
She was unhappy HSBC had allowed the fraud to take place and didnt feel it had 
provided sufficient explanation as to how this had happened 
She was unhappy HSBC didnt identify the fraudulent transactions and block them, 
especially as theyd blocked genuine transactions in the past 
She was unhappy that HSBC had been unable to guarantee fraud would not take 
place again on her account
She wanted a text message to be sent to her every time a transaction took place on 
the account so she could verify it
She was unhappy with the amount of times shed had to contact HSBC over the 
phone about the above issues and cost of these calls as she lived overseas
HSBC responded at the end of August 2019 but its letter didnt really addressed Mrs Ss 
concerns. It simply paid Mrs S £20 in compensation as it said a staff member didnt follow 
the expected process. The bank subsequently told our service the award likely related to the 
cost of the calls Mrs S made to HSBC.
In late August HSBC recognised it had sent Mrs Ss replacement card to the wrong address 
and Mrs S made a complaint about this. The card was cancelled and a replacement was 
sent out. Mrs S contacted HSBC in early October to let it know she again hadnt received her 
replacement card. The replacement that had been sent was again cancelled and a new one 
issued.
In November 2019 Mrs S contacted HSBC to report fraud had again taken place on her 
account and asked it to investigate. The payment Mrs S felt was fraudulent was for a 
subscription that hadnt been cancelled by a merchant as Mrs S had instructed. She was 
concerned by the payment as she felt this meant the merchant had somehow obtained her 
new card details. 
Mrs Ss records show she contacted HSBC again in November and December 2019 to make 
further complaints about the fraud that had taken place on her account. I havent seen 
evidence that HSBC responded to Mrs S following this contact.
Mrs S asked our service to look into things. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and 
said:
As Mrs S had received a full refund of the fraudulent transactions they felt this part of 
the complaint had been fairly resolved and didnt feel it was necessary to comment 
on HSBCs fraud procedures any further.
They didnt feel HSBC had clarified what the £20 compensation was for.
HSBC should reimburse the £39.95 taken from Mrs Ss account in November as part 
of what was likely to have been a continuous payment authority (CPA) instruction. 
They said as she had cancelled it with the merchant, this meant it was taken without 
her authority and she wasnt liable for it.
It accepted Mrs Ss had spent hours on the phone contacting HSBC to resolve the 
matter, but didnt feel the compensation amount she had requested was reasonable.
They concluded HSBC should pay a further £180 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused bringing the total compensation amount to £200.
HSBC said it was going to look into things and provide a further response but we didnt 
receive any further information from it. As it didnt accept the investigators findings so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has HSBC acted fairly and reasonably regarding the fraudulent activity that took place?
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im satisfied HSBC does has these measures in place, and Mrs S herself has said that in the 
past genuine payments shes tried to make have been blocked by the bank and shes had to 
verify transactions before theyve been allowed to go through. 
Unfortunately, fraudsters and scams are becoming increasingly sophisticated and constantly 
evolving. And whilst HSBC should take reasonable measures to protect its customers, I dont think its reasonable to expect a bank will or can guarantee it will identify or prevent every 
possible instance of fraud 100% of the time. 
Its also important to take into account that we dont know exactly how fraudsters accessed 
Mrs Ss card details. Theres nothing to suggest any information was accessed directly from 
HSBC. Mrs Ss card details could have somehow been accessed as a result of her use of 
the card which is outside of HSBCs control.
And in any event, HSBC reimbursed Mrs S for her loss the same day she contacted it with 
the exception of one transaction which she was reimbursed for three days later. So whilst I 
dont think HSBC was at fault in this situation, even if it had been, Im satisfied it acted as I 
would expect in putting things right. So I dont feel I need to say more about this aspect of 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S has said shed like the bank to send her text messages every time a transaction on 
her account is carried out so she can verify it. HSBC has said its unable to offer this service 
on this particular account. I think this is reasonable as HSBC isnt obliged to offer this service 
on every account. If Mrs S is unhappy with this shes able to look for an account elsewhere 
that would better suit her needs.
Part of Mrs Ss complaint relates to the amount of time shes spent speaking to HSBC over 
the phone and generally dealing with her complaint. Whilst I understand it was worrying for 
Mrs S to have been a victim of fraud its important to remember HSBC isnt the party thats 
inconvenienced her  the fraudster is. And unfortunately, when someone is a victim of fraud 
theyll likely suffer some inconvenience having to put the situation right. 
Whilst I can see Mrs S did make numerous calls to HSBC regarding the fraudulent activity, 
given the transactions were refunded after her first contact with the bank, and as I dont think 
her continuing requests of HSBC or her expectations were reasonable, I dont think HSBC 
needs to compensate her for the additional phone calls she chose to make to it about this.
Should HSBC have done more in relation to the November 2019 payment?
In November 2019, after a new card had been issued to Mrs S, a payment of £39.95 was 
debited from her account. The payment was likely a CPA payment taken from a merchant 
Mrs S had previously entered into a subscription with. Mrs S has provided evidence she 
cancelled the subscription before the payment was due so it appears she didnt authorise it 
and it shouldnt have been debited from her account. But Mrs S has also confirmed the 
merchant has refunded the payment that was taken without her authority. So she hasnt 
suffered any financial loss.
I can see she had some concerns about how the payment had been taken, given she had a 
newly issued card and hadnt given those card details to the merchant that took the 
payment. But despite the fact they are set up using specific card details, CPAs are actually 
linked to an account, not a specific card. So it likely wouldnt have been necessary for the 
merchant to obtain her new card details in order to take a payment.
Mrs S has kept a detailed timeline of all her contact with HSBC. Although HSBC doesnt 
have any record of some of what shes recorded, I have no reason to disbelieve her account, 
especially given the level of detail shes gone into. According to her records, she contacted 
HSBC on several occasions to discuss the November payment. She thought the payment 
had been taken fraudulently and was worried the merchant had accessed her card details 
without her consent. Given everything that had happened to her I can imagine this wouldve been concerning for 
Mrs S. And whilst concerns about how the merchant obtained her card details are an issue 
with the merchant and not something HSBC was necessarily responsible for, I think it still 
reasonably ought to have responded to Mrs Ss concerns and explained how the payment 
had been taken.
HSBC has said it doesnt have any record of Mrs S raising this issue so it seems unlikely it 
did respond to her concerns. And Im satisfied it has had ample opportunity to provide our 
service with its response if one was sent and it hasnt done this. Had it responded to Mrs S, 
it couldve let her know the payment was likely a CPA which wasnt linked to her card and 
saved her the worry and upset she no doubt suffered when she believed shed again been 
the victim of fraud. As it didnt do this I think its caused her unnecessary distress.
Did HSBC do enough after it sent Mrs Ss card to the wrong address?
According to Mrs Ss records, HSBC sent her replacement card to the incorrect address on 
two occasions and she raised a complaint about this. As well as the cost of the additional 
calls she had to make to HSBC about this, Mrs S has said not being able to use her account 
meant she had to use the overdraft on another account. Shes said HSBC has reimbursed 
her for the charges she incurred as a result of this. 
HSBC has said it has no record of this complaint and Ive not seen evidence of the refund of 
charges Mrs S says she received. But weve asked HSBC about this issue and Im satisfied 
its had ample opportunity to let us know if it did respond to this complaint, or if any additional 
compensation was paid in relation to this issue. As its not provided any further information 
about this, Ive proceeded on the basis it hasnt addressed this complaint and no further 
compensation has been paid to Mrs S.
I think this situation, as well as causing additional inconvenience for Mrs S, likely wouldve 
added to her general worry about the security of her account and exacerbated her concerns 
around a fraudster obtaining her card details. 
Taking this, and HSBCs failure to respond to Mrs S about the November payment, into 
account I think £200 is fair compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs S a 
further £180 in compensation bringing the total amount of compensation paid to £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman