DRN-3369086
Complaint
Mr K has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr K with a loan for £4,000.00 in June 2015. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £190. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ks 
complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr K with this loan. So she 
thought that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Avant Credit didnt agree so the case was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr K could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. The 
information Avant Credit has provided suggests it carried out a credit check. The results of 
which clearly demonstrated that Mr K was already significantly indebted. He had defaulted 
accounts and overdue balances on a number of payday-type loans too. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr K has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible he could have been taking these loans and then failing to 
pay through choice rather than because he was struggling, Id add that my experience of 
these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible 
arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ks version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ks existing debts meant that he was unlikely to be able 
to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as 
reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out about Mr Ks 
income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown Avant 
Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr K. As Avant Credit provided Mr K with 
this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr K has paid, and is being expected to pay, interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Avant Credit should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr K
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr K by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr K made, whether to Avant Credit or any their-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £4,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr K has already repaid more than £4,000.00 then Avant Credit should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr K;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr K to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ks 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-
party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account 
and its the case that Mr K is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman