DRN-4193611
The complaint
Mr D says American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) were unreasonable to reject 
a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I dont think AESEL have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong, and the payment was made with a credit card it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract. I think there has been a misrepresentation here as Mr D booked an 
ocean view and there wasnt one. The photographs Mr D has provided demonstrate that 
was the case, and I think the hotels actions when providing a discount and a change of 
rooms suggest that was the case too. I think the provision of an ocean view room was likely 
to have materially influenced Mr D to enter into the contract as I think its likely he would 
have paid more for that than for a standard room, so he actively chose to pay a higher price 
for that facility.
When theres a misrepresentation we would usually expect the business to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been in had it not been for that misrepresentation. But 
here thats not possible as Mr D has already had his holiday and had the benefit of the 
facilities and accommodation at the hotel. In those circumstances, an alternative remedy 
would need to be considered. The hotel offered a discount of €45 per night and that 
represented a discount of about 16% on the room. Mr D was still able to benefit from the 
facilities in the room and those available in the hotel. He was also given a change of room 
and while I note he was upset the bed wasnt a queen bed, but two singles joined together, it 
was clear he preferred to stay in that room rather than the one hed originally been allocated, 
so I dont think he was unduly inconvenienced by that. All told, I think the hotels actions 
provided reasonable redress in the circumstances and I dont think AESEL were therefore 
unreasonable to reject Mr Ds section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman