DRN-3463391
The complaint
Mr S, who runs a sole trader enterprise, complains about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc regarding his loan accounts.
What happened
In 2015 Mr S took out two commercial mortgages with NatWest.
In 2020, Mr S complained to NatWest about two aspects of the loan repayments taken by 
the bank:
Mr S made a lump sum capital repayment in October 2020. He had requested that 
the level of the regular repayments should then be left unchanged, but the bank 
initially failed to do that. NatWest corrected its error in December 2020. But as a 
result of the error, some interest had been wrongly charged during the months before 
the correction.
In addition, working from previous quarterly interest figures, Mr S calculated that too 
much interest had been charged on both loans. 
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr S referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that NatWest needed to do anything further. He gave these 
reasons, in summary:
As a result of the error after the lump sum repayment, there was a period of 50 days 
when the outstanding balance on the loan had been higher than it should have been. 
NatWest had refunded £10 to cover the interest on this. Later, the bank refunded a 
further £7.01 to address the effect of compounding. The investigator thought these 
sums put Mr S back into the financial position he would have been in had the mistake 
not been made. 
NatWest had apologised and paid Mr S £200 to recognise the inconvenience caused 
by its error and its customer service. The investigator thought that was fair and 
reasonable.
Having looked carefully at the quarterly interest figures, the investigator didnt think 
Mr S had been overcharged. The discrepancy between the amounts charged and 
Mr Ss calculations came from the differing numbers of days in a quarter, which 
resulted from the specific days on which bank holidays fell.
In response, Mr S said he believed £500 would be a more appropriate compensation 
payment. Hed sent 14 emails to the bank, some of which were lengthy and took time to 
compose and check, and there were also phone calls  he said the whole experience of 
dealing with NatWest had been painful. Mr S also said the banks £200 offer was made 
before its £7.01 correction for the compound interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I too have concluded that the bank doesnt need to do anything further.
Im satisfied that the refund of £17.01 has restored Mr Ss financial losses caused by the 
banks error following the lump sum repayment.
Im also satisfied that the bank didnt charge any other excess interest on the loans, for 
reasons explained by the investigator. The bank has recalculated the interest payments due 
throughout the life of the loans, and no error has been found.
I appreciate that Mr S was put to some inconvenience before these matters were resolved 
and he was frustrated by having to contact the bank repeatedly. But I note that NatWest had 
made no error regarding the larger part of Mr Ss complaint  about the quarterly interest 
payments  so I shouldnt include that matter in my consideration of the amount due. In the 
circumstances, I think the banks payment of £200 is enough. I appreciate that the bank 
made the compensation offer before its correction for compounding, but I still think that £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the level of inconvenience Mr S experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman