DRN-1202967
 
The complaint
Mr C says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2003. The policy was taken out at 
the same time as Mr C applied for an Egg credit card. It gave him accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C says he had little or no chance to opt out through a 'no' option, so he was sold a 
product he didn't want. I've looked at the screen Mr C would have seen when he applied for 
the Egg credit card online. This said 'Please choose one of the following' and gave the 
options 'Yes, I want to protect my repayments' and 'No, I understand it's my responsibility to 
keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my job'. And the applications report Canada 
Square Operations has provided shows Mr C selected 'Yes'.  These options were set out 
with equal prominence on the screen. So, I think Canada Square Operations made it clear to 
Mr C the PPI was optional, and he agreed to take it out.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for him. It was up to Mr C to decide whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mr C all the information about the PPI 
that he needed before he made his decision. But Mr C chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. Mr Cs representative argues that as Mr C had good sick pay its clear he would 
have declined the policy if the cost versus benefit was pointed out to him. But I disagree. 
This policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive benefit level. If Mr C was 
sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, in addition to his work benefit of six 
months full pay and six months half pay. And Ive seen no evidence the PPI was 
unaffordable. Overall, I think it unlikely Mr C wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.
It follows that I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with this sale.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman