DRN-1986751
The complaint
Miss D complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very didnt refund 
the advertised cashback sum on items shed purchased on her credit account. She wants to 
be refunded the £50 cashback she feels she was promised.
 
What happened
Miss D tells us that in December 2018 she ordered two items from the website of Shop 
Direct Home Shopping Limited (SDHSL) which is a retail supplier of goods. And that she 
applied the relevant code to enable her to obtain the £50 cashback offer that was being 
advertised on the site. She states that when she contacted the business about the cashback 
not being processed, she was told by a customer service agent that the error would be 
rectified. But she says shes now been informed that the purchases she made didnt qualify 
for the offer.
SDFCL told us that the relevant promotional code only applied to certain electrical items 
which had a minimum order price of £100. And that Miss Ds order had consisted of a non-
electrical item (£30.15) and an electrical item (£79.99). So the purchases didnt qualify for 
this cashback offer. It said that as gesture of goodwill it had credited Miss Ds account with 
£15.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that whilst 
he thought the information couldve been clearer, he said the terms and conditions stated 
that a promotional code could be disapplied if it was found the purchase didnt qualify. He felt 
the £15 credit for Miss D being incorrectly advised that shed still receive the cashback was 
fair.
Miss D didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss D feels she was misled into making a purchase with the promise of 
cashback that didnt materialise.
Although part of the same business group, Very, there are different providers of finance and 
goods here. The businesses are separate legal entities. Under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA), in limited circumstances the provider of certain types of credit can be liable for 
the actions of the supplier of goods and services. This applies if theres been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of the goods (here thats SDHSL). 
Thats why Im able to look at this complaint against the finance company, SDFCL.
Miss Ds complaint is that she was misled into purchasing goods by the offer of cashback 
which then wasnt paid. As both items purchased by Miss D were less than £100 each, I 
agree with our investigator that were unable to consider her complaint under the terms of 
Section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 only applies where the single item price is more than 
£100.
But Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant law. In short, this provision makes the supplier of 
credit responsible for a misrepresentation made by the supplier, in relation to goods, prior to 
the sale of the items. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a 
customer to enter an agreement and to incur a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
So if I felt that thered been a misrepresentation in what was stated on the website, Id be 
able to ask SDFCL to make good any consequential loss to Miss D.
Ive seen a screen shot of the relevant webpage. This states the offer of £50 back is on 
selected Electrical products. There are also two boxes marked Offer Details and Shop 
Now which appear to be links to other web pages on the site.
Given that one of the items purchased by Miss D is not an electrical item I think it ought to 
have been clear from the outset that the cashback offer didnt apply to this product. And so 
Id have expected Miss D to make a further check before proceeding.
Had she done so its probable shed have seen that the electrical product that she was about 
to purchase didnt have a value of £100. So this also didnt meet the required conditions. Im 
unable to find theres been a false statement of fact. And without that theres no 
misrepresentation.
Im aware that the promotional code appeared to be accepted. SDFCL has explained that 
this is simply how its system identifies the purchases as being on a Buy Now Pay Later basis 
(a further condition). And that its terms and conditions allow the code to be disapplied if its 
been used on a non-qualifying item.
I cant see that Miss D can reasonably be expected to know the finer details of SDFCLs 
internal systems. So I can understand why she might otherwise assume that - if the 
promotional code had been applied and the order processed - she would receive the 
cashback.
But as Ive already said the offer clearly stated it was limited to selected Electrical products. 
So I think it was apparent that further checks were required to determine if her purchases 
would qualify, even before the code was entered. 
I empathise with Miss D but Im not able to find that there was a misrepresentation. Although 
the information available on the first screen shot mightve been clearer, I think there was 
sufficient to show that this was a strictly defined offer. And to lead her to the additional 
information which confirmed that her intended purchases didnt meet the criteria.
In the circumstances, I think the credit of £15 for Miss D seemingly being given incorrect 
information later during the complaint process, was fair and reasonable.  Accordingly, Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman