DRN-2210294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wrongly advised them 
to invest £5,000 in a with-profits Bonus Bond in 1999, a product which exposed their money 
to excessive risk.
 
What happened
At this meeting Mr and Mrs G agreed to invest a total of £17,000 in three products and have 
recently complained about all three recommendations.
BoS upheld their complaint about the other two recommendations.
It accepted that Mrs G should not have taken any investment risk and so should not have put 
£6,000 into the recommended ISA, which it said was of medium risk. It offered compensation 
based on her having kept this money risk-free, something she accepted.
Equally, it concluded that Mr G should have not been advised to invest in a medium-risk ISA 
product and offered compensation on the basis that it would have been appropriate to 
recommend putting this money in a low-risk investment, which he accepted.
BoS said that if Mr and Mrs G had only been advised to £6,000 (between them) and in a low-
risk ISA, then the third recommendation to invest an additional £5,000 in a with-profits bond 
would have been reasonable. This would have resulted in a total of £11,000 of their £35,000 
(approx.) savings being invested, and all at lowish risk.
An investigator at this service didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to safely say that this 
would have been unsuitable advice, noting:
The advisor recorded that Mr and Mrs G wanted to limit any exposure to stock 
market-based products to £12,000 of their savings
This recommendation  if Mrs G had not been advised to invest at all  would have 
been within that limit
The product, a with-profits bond, was not unsuitable for a first-time or inexperienced 
investor
While there was significant indirect exposure to equities/the stock market, the nature 
of a with-profits bond provided some protection against significant fluctuations  
including by way of smoothed returns and bonuses
Mr and Mrs Gs representative did not agree, saying:
Mr and Mrs G did not want to risk losing this money via equity exposure
The documentation implies that the product is risk-free due to the bonuses; this is 
clearly not the case
If this had been made clear they probably would not have gone ahead
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. It is important to say that 
my role, and that of this service, is to assess whether there is sufficient, persuasive evidence 
to safely conclude that a business did something wrong, such as offering unsuitable advice.
Given BoS has already agreed that two elements of its advice was wrong, and paid 
compensation on two of the products, my role is to consider whether its third 
recommendation would still have been unsuitable if Mrs G had not invested £6,000 and Mr G 
had put his £6,000 in a lower-risk ISA.
Firstly, I dont think it would have been unreasonable to recommend that they collectively 
invest £11,000 i.e. just under a third of their savings. I acknowledge that they had a modest 
monthly surplus income and withdrew money regularly, cancelling all these investments 
within four years. But Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that this was because 
they become unaffordable as opposed to any other reasons such as poor performance. 
Mr G was recorded as saying they wanted to limit any investment to £12,000, something I 
agree with and which makes the advice to invest a total of £17,000 clearly wrong. But, on 
balance, I think investing £11,000 and in fairly low-risk investments wouldnt have been 
excessive.
Concerning the specific product, the Bonus Bond, I dont agree that this was clearly too 
risky. With-profits bonds have always been considered fairly low-risk products, given their 
various features such as bonuses being guaranteed (once applied), thereby reducing the 
scope for large falls. Theres nothing to indicate this with-profits bond was atypical. 
I accept that there have been more concerns about with-profits bonds in recent years, partly 
due how they have fared during periods or almost unprecedented market turmoil, but I need 
to judge whether this was a reasonable recommendation more than 20 years ago, when 
with-profits were widely accepted as suitably low-risk products for first-time investors.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman