DRN-2195167
The complaint
Miss F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds as the business that sold the PPI to keep things simpler.
What happened
In 1997 Miss F took out PPI alongside a mortgage. The policy protected her monthly 
mortgage repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Miss F 
disagreed and shed like an ombudsman to review whats happened. 
As far as I can see, Miss Fs main complaint is that Lloyds didnt ask her any of the 
questions about her financial situation that she was later asked by an independent financial 
advisor who told her she didnt need PPI. Miss F says that if Lloyds sales advisor had asked 
her the same questions that her financial advisor did she wouldnt have taken out the PPI in 
the first place. And shes unhappy that Lloyds wont give her a direct answer to her question 
about whether the sales advisor asked her relevant questions at the time of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Miss F remembers arranging her mortgage during a meeting at the bank although she has 
no memory of the PPI. Its not surprising that Miss F doesnt clearly recall all the details as 
this happened so long ago. 
I can completely understand that Miss F would like to know exactly what questions the 
Lloyds advisor put to her about her financial situation when PPI was arranged. But as 
theres no recording of that meeting or any written notes as far as I can see, I think its 
unlikely that anyone at Lloyds is able to say with any certainty now exactly what was 
discussed at a meeting that took place so long ago. 
And I wouldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have kept full records relating to a mortgage that 
closed around 19 years ago. A financial business isnt required to keep paperwork 
indefinitely. When personal private information is no longer likely to be needed, it can be 
destroyed. Data protection laws set out rules about this. Destroying old paperwork helps to 
keep customers private details secure.
So I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
One of the important things I have to decide is whether Lloyds presented the PPI to Miss F 
in such a way that she understood having PPI was optional. And I need to be satisfied that it 
was most likely added to her mortgage at her request. 
The copy of the signed paperwork Lloyds provided from when Miss F took out her mortgage 
isnt very clear. 
But I can see that in the section headed: Applying for TSB MortgageSure (this is what 
Lloyds called its PPI at the time) there were two tick boxes  and theres a tick in one of the 
boxes. 
The next part of the form is headed: Checking you are eligible for TSB MortgageSure and 
I can see that boxes are ticked in answer to the questions being asked. 
So it looks to me like Miss F ticked to say she wanted to have PPI and answered the 
questions to check eligibility.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Miss F arranged her mortgage. 
But I think Miss F wouldve known that it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI because this 
was information she was asked to provide on the mortgage application. 
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Miss F couldve forgotten some 
of these details now. So although I cant be sure what was discussed between her and 
Lloyds when she took out the PPI, I cant uphold her mis-sale complaint on the basis that 
Lloyds failed to make her aware having PPI was optional. And I think PPI was most likely 
added to her account at her request. 
Lloyds said it recommended PPI to Miss F. 
If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. And if this didnt happen, I have to think about whether this 
wouldve made any overall difference to Miss F .
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Miss F took 
out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use afterwards  so I think its 
likely that in all main respects the policy that she took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
Miss F was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the likely PPI terms and 
conditions that applied.
Ive taken into account what Miss F told us about her financial situation. 
PPI wouldve covered her mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per claim if Miss F was 
off work sick or disabled. Also the policy wouldve paid out if she became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Looking at the information Ive got, I dont think its likely that Miss F couldve easily 
managed the mortgage repayments for long if she wasnt working. She couldve only 
depended on her employer to pay her full sick pay for 6 months. Ive taken into account that there was a possibility of discretionary sick pay being paid over 
and above this. But Im looking at Miss Fs contractual entitlement  because thats all she 
could safely rely on when she took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay 
when it doesn't have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly 
benefit in the event of a successful claim. And the policy paid out for twice as long as she 
couldve relied on her employer to pay her if she was off work sick. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Miss F if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Rental income wasnt something Miss F couldve always been sure shed be able to depend 
on getting. Its possible she mightnt have always wanted to continue having a lodger  and 
she cant have been sure shed always be able to find a suitable replacement lodger if shed 
needed to in time to avoid any break in rental income. 
Miss Fs mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number of years. Her 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided 
a dependable means of ensuring the monthly repayments were protected even if Miss F 
couldnt work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. 
So, it looks to me like PPI provided a useful benefit in what wouldve likely been difficult 
circumstances for Miss F if shed needed to make a claim. And whilst I appreciate its 
frustrating for Miss F not knowing exactly what questions Lloyds asked Miss F it makes no 
difference to the outcome of this complaint because I think PPI looks as if it was suitable for 
her at the time. 
It seems likely to me that her circumstances couldve been different in 2004 when she 
reviewed her overall financial situation with an independent financial adviser. I havent seen 
enough to be able to say that the PPI she took out with her mortgage hadnt been right for 
her six years or so earlier when she arranged her mortgage. 
There were some policy exclusions and limitations  but it doesnt look like that affected 
Miss F. So I dont think it likely that better information about what wasnt covered wouldve 
put Miss F off taking it out because I think Miss F couldve benefitted from all the main policy 
benefits she might reasonably have expected.
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if the policy cost was clearly explained when she took the policy 
out. But I can see the amount she would have to pay each month to keep the policy running 
was set out on her mortgage offer. So she knew in advance (at least approximately) what 
shed be paying for the policy and it looks like Miss F was happy to pay this at the time. 
And if or when her circumstances changed, or she no longer wanted to pay for PPI, she 
couldve cancelled the policy at any time at no extra cost  as she later did. 
Taking into account everything I've seen and been told, it appears that Miss F chose to take 
out the policy when she couldve said she didnt want to. And so it looks like she did want to 
have this type of cover. Ive seen nothing that suggests this policy was unaffordable for 
Miss F when she signed up to it. So thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint.
Looked at overall, even if there were failings in the way Lloyds sold PPI to Miss F, I dont 
think that better information wouldve put her off having it. So I cant fairly say that Miss F lost out financially as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong. And this means theres nothing it 
needs to do to put things right.  
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Miss F. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman