DRN-3921704
The complaint
Mr A has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted British Gas to deal with an issue with a radiator. British Gas sent an 
engineer. Following this, Mr A complained to British Gas because of the attitude of the 
engineer. He also said British Gas had told him he could have a radiator replaced free of 
charge, but now wasnt willing to do this. 
When British Gas replied, it said it had provided correct advice, but the engineers comments 
would be dealt with through in-house processes. It also explained its policy around power 
flushing systems and said it hadnt offered to replace a radiator free of charge. However, it 
offered £100 compensation for the delays in resolving the complaint and the issues with the 
engineer. British Gas also said it had told Mr A that if he purchased a new radiator, it would 
install it free of charge. But, Mr A had rejected this offer and said it would be better if British 
Gas provided the radiator. British Gas confirmed this wasnt covered by the policy.
So, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
British Gas had appropriately dealt with the complaint about the engineers attitude. He said 
British Gas had also appropriately investigated whether Mr A had been told he had been 
offered a free radiator. British Gas had also confirmed it did carry out power flushing to 
systems like Mr As and that if it wasnt successful it would take steps to have the system 
operating efficiently. He said British Gas had acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Mr A complained about the attitude of an engineer and comments he made. British Gas told 
Mr A it would address the issues through internal processes. In the circumstances, I think 
that was reasonable.
Mr A was also concerned by the advice he was given about a powerflush, as he said the 
type of system he had couldnt be powerflushed. When British Gas replied to Mr As 
complaint, it said it did powerflush systems like his but it wasnt always successful. British 
Gas also told Mr A that until he had a powerflush carried out, none of the water parts in his 
central heating system would be covered under the policy. British Gas has since confirmed 
to this service that it wouldnt carry out a powerflush on the type of system Mr A has. So, I 
currently intend to require British Gas to update its records to reflect this and to ensure there 
arent any restrictions on Mr As cover that are the result of him not agreeing to a powerflush 
being carried out.
Mr A also said British Gas agreed to supply a larger radiator free of charge. In particular, Mr 
A said someone at British Gas had agreed to do this in an email. Ive looked at the emails. 
Mr A sent an email saying an engineer had said the best course of action was for a radiator 
to be replaced. When British Gas replied, it said that as it wasnt an emergency it would 
need to be rescheduled at a later date when there was more availability. Neither Mr A or 
British Gas referred to the radiator being provided for free. British Gas has said a larger 
radiator would be an upgrade. Looking at the policy terms and conditions, these said 
upgrades arent covered by the policy. So, I havent seen evidence that persuades me 
British Gas said it would provide a new radiator for free or that British Gas was required to 
do so under the policy. British Gas did offer to fit the radiator for free, which I think was fair in 
the circumstances, although Mr A seemed to reject this offer during the complaints process.
Ive also thought about compensation. British Gas offered Mr A £100 compensation because 
of the issues it identified with how his claim and complaint were dealt with. However, this 
didnt take into account the issue with the powerflush. Based on what British Gas has now 
told this service, the engineer did misadvise Mr A. When Mr A complained about this, British 
Gas told him he had been given the correct advice. Mr A then sent further comments and 
British Gas replied and maintained its position that the advice to have a powerflush carried 
out was correct. As this wasnt the case, I think this will have caused additional concern and 
inconvenience to Mr A. So, I currently intend to say that British Gas should pay Mr A an 
additional £50 compensation. So, £150 in total.
Having thought about all of the above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint in part and 
to require British Gas to ensure its records correctly reflect that Mr As property doesnt 
require a powerflush and that the policy cover isnt restricted because of this, as well as 
paying an additional £50 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 18 January 2023. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr A said British Gas has previously replaced another radiator that wasnt functioning 
correctly, as well as a central heating pump and a circuit board. He said the engineer 
advised him the radiator wasnt performing as it should. As British Gas had precedence for 
replacing radiators under his policy, he said it should replace the radiator. 
Mr A also said that while the complaint was with this service, an engineer had arrived at his 
home unannounced and advised Mr A that he would have replaced the radiator under the 
terms of the policy. Mr A also said he thought the amount of compensation was low and that 
£500 would be more appropriate due to the time taken and the stress of dealing with the 
matter and the impact on family members of a radiator not always functioning.
British Gas replied and didnt agree with my decision. It said there was sludge in the system 
and it had been established that due to the size of the pipework powerflushing would be 
unlikely to be successful. Removing sludge wasnt covered by the policy and Mr A would 
need to pay for this separately. It would therefore be unable to cover any sludge related 
issues until the sludge had been removed. It said Mr A would need to explore options to 
remove the sludge with an appropriate provider. It said it wouldnt mark the Mr As account 
as him not being able to have a powerflush completed, as this or other options might be 
possible with other companies. It said that just because British Gas wouldnt carry out a 
powerflush, it didnt mean other companies wouldnt do so.
British Gas also said it was correct to advise a powerflush was needed as there is sludge in 
the system and this needs to be removed before it can consider sludge related faults under 
the policy. It said it had given correct advice. So, it said the additional £50 compensation 
wasnt appropriate.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered the comments provided by both parties.
In terms of the radiator, the issue was whether British Gas should remove a radiator and 
replace it with a larger radiator free of charge. I remain of the view this would be an upgrade, 
which isnt covered by the policy. Im aware Mr A has described instances where parts of his 
central heating system were replaced and that a engineer recently told him he would have 
replaced the radiator for free. However, that hasnt persuaded me that British Gas should 
upgrade Mr As radiator without charge.
In terms of the powerflush, I will explain in more detail what happened. When British Gas 
replied to Mr As complaint it said:
In regards to power-flushing microbore systems; we can and do carry out this activity 
however, it is not always 100% successful due to the reduced diameter of the pipework, if 
this was not successful we would carry out whatever necessary work is required to get the 
system operating efficiently. This may be cutting out sections of restricted pipework or in 
extreme cases installing new pipework. 
It is clear in the Terms and Conditions that if we identify a problem such as a requirement for 
power flushing and the customer decides not to take us up on this advice then we will not 
cover the effected parts. I would expect if we have advised and quoted for a powerflush then 
we would have taken a water sample which would have shown this system would benefit 
from it.
While the complaint was with this service, British Gas told this service:
Mr As system has microbore pipework. This pipe work is narrow which can mean
that a powerflush wont be successful. We wouldnt carry out a powerflush on microbore pipe 
work.
So, British Gas told Mr A it could powerflush his system and if this didnt work it could look at 
other options and outlined what those might be. British Gas then told this service, it wouldnt 
powerflush the type of system Mr A has. I remain of the view that British Gas misadvised Mr 
A when it replied to his complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, British Gas said that where it diagnosed a sludge 
problem, it can impose a restriction until that problem is dealt with. But, that isnt what has 
been in dispute or what I commented on in my provisional decision. What was in dispute was 
what British Gas had said was the solution to that problem. When it replied to the complaint, 
British Gas said there was a requirement for powerflushing. Mr A told British Gas and this 
service that his system shouldnt be powerflushed. British Gas later told this service it 
wouldnt powerflush a microbore system. What Im requiring British Gas to do is to note that 
it cant powerflush the system and not to impose a restriction due to it not being 
powerflushed. I didnt give a view on its diagnosis of sludge in the system and what it can do 
as a result of its diagnosis, as that wasnt what I was looking at. Specifically, I was 
considering whether it was fair to say there was a requirement for powerflushing.Ive also thought about compensation. British Gas said it didnt think it should pay anything 
further as it hadnt misadvised Mr A. Ive already explained why I remain of the view that it 
did misadvise Mr A. Mr A has said he thinks he should be paid more compensation. Ive 
thought about this further, including the reasons Mr A provided, and each of the issues that 
formed part of this complaint. Having done so, I remain of the view that £150 is an 
appropriate level of conversation.
Putting things right
British Gas should ensure Mr As policy cover correctly reflects that it cannot powerflush 
microbore systems and that cover shouldnt be restricted because it hasnt been 
powerflushed. It should also pay a total of £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Ensure that Mr As policy cover correctly reflects that the system cannot be powerflushed 
and that his cover shouldnt be restricted because this hasnt been carried out.
Pay a total of £150 compensation, which includes the £100 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman