DRN-3150210
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Bank of Scotland charged Mr W and Mrs W a monthly fee for the URCA and provided 
several potential benefits in return. They think that Bank of Scotland should refund them all 
the fees they paid.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W have been customers of Bank of Scotland for a long time. I understand that 
they opened one of its fee-free accounts in 1993 and Bank of Scotland sold them the URCA 
at the end of November 2009. The URCA replaced the fee-free account and Mr W and Mrs 
W kept it until at least early 2021.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint and didnt think 
that Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to them. Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree with 
the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr W and Mrs Ws case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr W and Mrs W and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us 
about the complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr W and Mrs W have told us that Bank of Scotland sold them the URCA during a meeting 
at one of its branches, and I accept this. Both parties have told us that while Mr W and Mrs 
W had their fee-free account, they overdrew their account balance quite frequently. Mr W 
and Mrs W have told us that they relied on an overdraft. Theyve said that the sole reason 
they bought the URCA was that during the meeting Bank of Scotland told them it would no 
longer allow them to overdraw their fee-free account and that to keep using an overdraft they 
had to buy an URCA. They now believe that this was wrong and they could have kept their 
fee-free account and still have had the right to overdraw it. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mr W and Mrs Ws current belief is very probably correct. 
Banks rarely consider the type of current account customers hold when deciding whether to 
allow them an overdraft. Bank of Scotland has continued to provide overdrafts to customers 
with fee-free accounts. But, the crux of Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint is about whether Bank 
of Scotland told them the opposite and so misled them.
Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting so I cant tell for sure what Bank of Scotland said, 
or didnt say, to Mr W and Mrs W. But I doubt it misled them in the way they have described. 
This would have gone against both general banking practice at the time and its own 
commercial position; and it would have contradicted Mr W and Mrs Ws previous personal 
experience. However, from early December 2009, one of the potential benefits of the URCA 
was that depending on how a customer used an account, Bank of Scotland would raise 
lower charges for an overdraft than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. In some 
cases, customers with URCAs could save more in reduced overdraft charges than they paid 
in monthly fees. I think its highly likely that Bank of Scotland told Mr W and Mrs W about this 
benefit, which would come into effect about a fortnight after it sold them the URCA. Bank of 
Scotland may well have said that Mr W and Mrs W wouldnt get these lower charges with 
their fee-free account. But this was true, so it wouldnt have been misleading. 
Although the main point of Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint concerns the overdraft, in fairness 
to them I have also looked to see if Bank of Scotland may have mis-sold them the URCA for 
other reasons. 
In 2009, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank
accounts, such as URCAs, in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Mr W and Mrs W, as well as giving them a 
choice, I would have expected it to tell them about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly 
and fairly; and if it gave advice, I would also have expected it to check if they needed the 
benefits which the account could provide before making any recommendation.
In 2009, Bank of Scotland usually sold URCAs on an information-only basis. On our 
questionnaire, Mr W and Mrs W said that Bank of Scotland advised them to buy the URCA, 
However, they seem to have based this on their recollection that it told them they would 
need an URCA to continue using an overdraft. As Ive already found it unlikely that Bank of 
Scotland did this, I also think its unlikely that it changed its usual approach and gave them 
any advice. I think this was probably an information-only sale. 
The other benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, insurance for home emergencies, 
use of a car breakdown service and mobile phone insurance. Mr W and Mrs W have told us 
that they used some of the benefits from time-to-time, including making insurance claims. 
Theyve pointed out that although they think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to them, 
they still had a right to use its rewards. I accept this, but it also shows that Bank of Scotland 
must have told Mr W and Mrs W them about the benefits and explained how to use them. 
 
There isnt any dispute that Bank of Scotland told Mr W and Mrs W about the monthly fees 
for the URCA; and as I have already found that it didnt tell them they had to buy it, I doubt 
that it denied them the choice to keep their fee-free account, particularly as such accounts 
have been widely available from both Bank of Scotland and other UK banks for many years.
So, in summary, although I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have done everything right
in the way it sold the URCA to Mr W and Mrs W, I dont think it misled them about overdrafts. 
And Im satisfied that it told them about cost and benefits of the URCA and gave them a 
choice. I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr W and Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give them any money 
back.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman