DRN-2274342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) did not act on Mr Hs 
instruction to transfer investments from Mrs Hs account to his own.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision and, as both parties are 
familiar with the detail of what happened, I wont repeat it here.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 September. I was minded to concluded that HSDL 
should pay Mr and Mrs H £60 and I explained my reasons why. I said:
HSDL acknowledged it made a mistake. It entered the wrong account code so the 
transfers didnt take place. It apologised to Mr H when he phoned it on 24 February.
When Mr H phoned to request the transfers he indicated that he was going to 
transfer the holdings into his ISA at a later date so that, in the longer term, he and his 
wife would save on capital gains tax. Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me 
that he needed, or planned, to sell the shares quickly and that hes lost out because 
the price moved against him.
In any event, HSDL has a 10 day timescale for completing such transfers. It made Mr 
H aware of this when he gave his transfer instruction. The holdings were transferred 
within this time period, despite its mistake. So I dont find HSDL needs to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for any lost opportunity or for any actual financial loss.
This leaves me to decide how much Mr and Mrs H should be compensated for the 
inconvenience HSDLs mistake caused. Mr H had to phone HSDL to check if the 
transfers had been actioned. But HSDL corrected its mistake straight away and, as 
noted above, the transfers still took place within the agreed timescale. Whilst Mr H 
was put to some inconvenience  he had to phone HSDL - I dont think he was put to 
any other trouble. In the circumstances I think HSDLs offer to pay him £50, plus the 
cost of his calls, was fair and reasonable. Mr H says the transfers would never have 
happened if he hadnt phoned. But this doesnt make a difference to my decision  
we dont make awards for things that may or may not happen.
So, to cover the inconvenience caused and the cost of calls, I find it fair and 
reasonable that HSDL pay Mr and Mrs H £60.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said their circumstances changed and they needed to sell 
shares, but the ones that they wanted to sell hadnt been transferred. They said the 
suggested settlement figure was wholly inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say their circumstances changed and they wanted to sell the shares. Im sorry 
to disappoint them, but this doesnt make a difference to my earlier conclusion. As I said in 
my provisional decision, when Mr H gave instructions to transfer the shares, HSDL made 
him aware that it could take up to 10 days for the transfers to be completed. The shares 
were transferred within this 10-day timescale. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought compensation of £60 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. And Mr and Mrs Hs response to my provisional 
decision does not change my conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr and Mrs H £60.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman