DRN-2914257
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont refund payments 
he says he didnt make from his credit card account.
What happened
Mr O disputes four payments from his account coming to £26,176.82 made between 29 May 
and 2 June 2020. He says that he had lost his card and couldnt report it to Barclaycard. He 
also says that he didnt make two credits to his account of £9,999 each during this period.  
Mr O says he is unhappy that Barclaycard hasnt investigated this further and two of the 
payments went to a merchant that doesnt seem to exist.
Barclaycard said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payments were made using chip 
and PIN and Mr O had no explanation for how someone would have discovered his PIN. In 
addition, the credits required his security information to process and there was also access 
to his account online to change his address and apply for an increase in the credit limit. Due 
to the activity on his account it was suspended. The credits were charged back from his 
account and returned. Mr O had contacted it in June 2020, and it told him in September 
2020 that it was holding him responsible for the payments and balance on the account. It 
had issued a final response to his complaint in November 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he had 
considered whether someone other than Mr O could have made the payments without his 
consent. Mr O had told him that the PIN was kept safe and hadnt been disclosed. The last 
time he had made a payment using the PIN was on 23 May 2020 and he had made 
contactless payments after that with the card. Mr O said he noticed his card was missing on 
27 May 2020. So, it seemed unlikely an unknown third party could have seen his PIN when 
he last used it on 23 May 2020 and later been able to obtain the card. And hed have 
expected use of the card to start straightaway. The credits to the account were made using 
an interactive voice response system and needed Mr Os security information. And the 
access to his online account on 1 June 2020 to request an increase in the credit limit and on 
2 June 2020 to change his address also required his security details. There was no 
explanation how someone else could have obtained these either. There were no failed log in 
attempts and  Mr O was able to log in after the payments himself. Our investigator didnt 
think that any further investigation with the merchants was fairly required and Barclaycard 
said that it didnt validate what payments were for when they were authorised.
Mr O didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he believed his security 
information had been compromised by someone in Barclaycard. He had asked all the friends 
in his house at the time about what happened, and no one admitted to anything like this. He 
has asked the internet service provider for any records. Mr O thought that Barclaycard ought 
to have spotted these payments as suspicious and at least tried to contact him as has 
happened at other times with debit card payments. He maintained that he didnt make these 
payments and has never made credits by phone before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
So, Ive thought about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- Whats the most likely explanation of how the card and PIN were used?
- Did Mr O authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else 
to use his card?
- Did Barclaycard act reasonably?
Im satisfied based on the audit information Ive seen that the payments Mr O disputes were 
made with the genuine card. The chip on the card was read and the correct PIN entered and 
so the payments were authenticated. Ive also seen evidence to show that the credits to his 
account were made after the security information on the account had been verified. And that 
there were log ins to online banking to request a change to the credit limit and an address 
change.
I need to think about whether Mr O consented to the use of his card. I wont be able to say 
exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Mr O says he noticed he didnt have his card on the morning of 27 May 2020. He doesnt 
report losing any other cards or possessions. He says that he couldnt report this loss to 
Barclaycard. His card wasnt used for a disputed payment until about midday on 29 May 
2020, so he had two days to report it. The card wasnt further used until the afternoon and 
evening of 2 June 2020. I appreciate he may have had difficulties getting through to 
Barclaycard, but he had the opportunity to report the card missing and I think was 
reasonably expected to do so by Barclaycard. He says he contacted Barclaycard about this 
on 3 June 2020, but it doesnt have any record of contact from him until 9 June 2020. But in 
either case the point is there was no contact until after the payments had been taken and the 
account had been suspended.
I agree with what our investigator has said about the PIN and security information for the 
account. Mr O was reasonably required to keep this safe and he said he did. I think it highly 
unlikely that an unknown third party whod say seen his PIN the last time he entered it could 
have then obtained and used his card four days later. And that this person would have 
waited to use the card before making a payment. That person would also somehow have 
needed to be able to access his account  to request an increased in the credit limit to use, 
to change the address and then to arrange for what were reported as unauthorised credits to 
come into the account. I can see that the money that was paid in was each time used within 
about three hours. A third party would have risked detection and there is no suggestion Mr O 
wouldnt have been able to access the account during this time as none of the security 
information was changed. There is no evidence to support someone from Barclaycard 
carrying this out as he alleges or how that person in a similar way could have obtained the 
genuine card and PIN.
I accept that there was a degree of planning involved here with an attempt to increase the 
credit limit. And as far as I can see the address on the account changed to facilitate the 
receipt of fraudulently obtained money through credits to the account. And the amount of those credits was significant. The question I need to decide on is whether Mr O was a witting 
participant in what happened. That doesnt mean he had to make the payments himself but 
would include a situation in which he effectively allowed someone else to take over his 
account and use his security information.
Im afraid having considered all the information I think it most likely that Mr O consented to 
his account being used in this way. And so, I think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to hold 
him responsible. Having made that finding I dont see it as particularly relevant to consider 
whether Barclaycard should have flagged the activity on the account as suspicious any 
earlier because Mr O authorised what was happening. I understand Mr O said he didnt 
receive the first fraud declaration form and that he thinks there was a delay in looking into 
things. But I dont think any further investigation into the merchants involved about what was 
purchased or earlier review of the case would have helped in resolving the issues Im 
considering here. 
There is a significant amount of money at stake here for Mr O. And I understand his position. 
But Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require Barclaycard to do anything further. 
He would need to discuss his plans for repayment of the balance on the account with it and 
Id expect it to take account of his financial position and treat him positively and 
sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman