DRN-2414701
The complaint
Mr L complains that following a direct debit indemnity, Nationwide Building Society caused 
him to go over his agreed overdraft limit and impacted his credit rating.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr L raised a direct debit indemnity claim for a payment of £242.76 
that had been taken from his account in October 2019. This was credited back to Mr 
Ls account the following day.
Nationwide said the payment was legitimate as the merchant had evidenced Mr L 
had been sent prior notice of the payment. 
Shortly after, Nationwide sent a letter to inform Mr L his indemnity claim was 
unsuccessful, and it would be debiting the sum from his account on 27 March 2020. 
Mr L says he didnt receive the letter and complained. He said Nationwide put him 
over his agreed overdraft and unfairly recorded this on his credit file at an especially 
difficult time with Covid-19.
Nationwide said it hasnt made an error in processing the indemnity but accepted that 
it hadnt been clear on the reasoning for the mark on Mr Ls credit file and it 
compensated him £50.
Our investigator considered what happened but didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L 
disagreed, saying he wasnt notified of the direct debit in the first place, and 
Nationwide didnt give him a chance to get the account restored. He also said the 
credit report shows a missed/late payment which is incorrect.  
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
Mr L says he wasnt notified of the direct debit in the first place from the company 
that took the payment in October. Any issue with notification is an issue he will need 
to address with that company. 
Ive considered whether it was fair for Nationwide to decline the indemnity claim 
based on the evidence it received. It received a copy of the bill. I can see it was 
addressed correctly and dated 11 October 2019 showing payment due on 19 
October 2019. Im satisfied Nationwide fairly declined the claim based on this 
evidence.
Under the terms and conditions of an indemnity claim it says, If you receive a refund 
you are not entitled to, you are liable to pay back the refund when you are asked to 
do so. Nationwide sent a letter to give Mr L advance notice that the payment would 
be debited on 27 March 2020. Mr L says he didnt receive it, but I can see it was 
generated on Nationwides system and addressed correctly. I dont think it would be 
fair to hold Nationwide responsible for any issues Mr L may have had receiving post. 
It follows Im persuaded Nationwide did provide notice and hasnt made an error 
when processing the claim.
Due to the debit being taken, Mr Ls account went over the arranged overdraft limit 
for several days. He also had direct debits returned due to insufficient funds. As 
such, it was reported that Mr Ls account was in arrears for consecutive months. 
Banks and building societies are obliged to report accurate account information as 
outlined in the terms and conditions of the account. And although the debit did lead to 
Mr Ls account going over the agreed limit, it doesnt change the fact the account fell 
into arrears across consecutive months (March-April) and Nationwide has correctly 
reported the account status. So, Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt done anything wrong.
Mr L has challenged the accuracy of Nationwides reporting. I can see from its 
records this was reported as early account arrears  which is accurate. 
Nationwide accepts its first response to Mr L didnt explain the credit mark clearly and 
I agree the £50 is a fair and reasonable payment to acknowledge this so I wont be 
asking Nationwide to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman