DRN-4349205
The complaint
Mr D is complaining about Startline Motor Finance Limiteds decision to lend to him  he 
says the loan was unaffordable. His complaint was brought to our service by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr D took out a hire purchase agreement with Startline, via a broker, to 
finance the purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £116 and borrowed £10,879 over a 
60-month term, with monthly repayments of £274.88. Mr D missed a payment in August 
2022 and the car was subsequently sold and the account defaulted with a balance of around 
£2,800.
In November 2022 Mr D complained to Startline, saying they shouldnt have lent to him  but 
Startline didnt uphold his complaint. They said they support applicants who have a lower 
credit rating and said theyd done a proper assessment of affordability before deciding to 
lend to Mr D.
Startline said their systems confirmed Mr Ds net monthly income of £1,587 using one of the 
credit reference agency (CRA) affordability tools. They said he was a married tenant and the 
CRA data theyd looked at showed he had an acceptable payment history with all active 
accounts being well paid. That included an unsecured loan, three credit cards, and an 
existing hire purchase agreement. This hire purchase agreement had monthly instalments of 
around £225 and was required to be settled as a condition of this new agreement. Startline 
said Mr D had one live default with a telecommunications supplier but the balance was 
reducing.
So, they said, theyd completed a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, identifying no 
material risk of affordability issues. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Startlines response so he brought his complaint to our service. He 
said Startline had been irresponsible in providing him with finance and had failed to conduct 
thorough, appropriate and reasonable checks.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint  he said he thought 
Startline had carried out proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision. 
Startline accepted our investigators view. But Mr D wasnt happy. He said hed had 17 late 
payments on other accounts in the three months prior to the lending decision and 29 in the 
six months prior. He asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the complaints come to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2023. In summary, I said I didnt think Startline 
had done proportionate checks, but I thought even if they had they could have fairly decided 
to lend to Mr D. My provisional decision was as follows:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without 
the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Startline carry out proportionate checks?
Startline verified Mr Ds income using one of the CRAs account turnover tools. And they 
were happy with what they found on his credit file.
They calculated that with income of £1,587 per month, loan repayments of £290, payments 
for the new hire purchase agreement of £275, and payments towards other credit 
commitments of around £55 per month, he would have £967 left over for his living 
expenses. On this basis they concluded that the arrangement was affordable for Mr D.
Im not sure how Startline determined that £967 per month was enough for Mr D to live on 
without knowing how much he spent on housing or his family circumstances. Im inclined to 
say this amount often wouldnt be enough to cover housing, council tax, utility bills, food 
and other essentials.
In addition, Im not happy with Startlines analysis of Mr Ds credit file. Ive looked at the 
same information and I can see Mr D had significant amounts outstanding on three 
separate home credit loans (totalling around £2,200). He was supposed to be paying a 
total of about £170 per week against these loans but was in arrears on all three. At the time 
of the lending decision hed also recently missed a repayment on a credit card account. 
And the telecommunications default had occurred less than a year ago so is also a factor in 
thinking about what would have been reasonable and proportionate.
In summary, Im inclined to say Startline didnt do reasonable and proportionate checks 
when assessing whether the agreement was affordable for Mr D. He had a relatively low 
income, was borrowing a significant amount of money over a five year period, and there 
were indicators from his credit file that he was struggling to meet his financial 
commitments. This combination of factors should have prompted Startline to ask Mr D 
more questions about his financial circumstances.
So I need to consider what Startline would have found if they had completed proportionate 
checks.
What would Startline have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved Startline finding out more about Mr Ds income 
and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make repayments in a sustainable 
way. 
Ive looked at statements for Mr Ds three bank accounts for the three months preceding 
his application to Startline  August, September and October 2021. Ive not seen any 
evidence that he had any other personal bank accounts. Im not saying Startline needed to 
obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of other 
information, bank statements provide a good indication of Mr Ds financial circumstances at 
the time the lending decision was made.
These statements show Mr Ds income was, on average, around £1,560 per month  so 
very close to the figure Startline verified. I can see his loan payments of £290 per month 
and he was paying around £80 per month on average against other credit commitments. 
He had limited other regular non-discretionary expenditure  his statements show around 
£100 per month on food and an average of £50 per month on mobile phones. Mr D was 
spending around £600 per month on fuel cards at the time but hasnt explained to us why 
this figure was so high.Mr D also says he contributed towards rent and council tax, paying his partner a total of 
£187 per month  but I cant see these amounts on his bank statements  I can only see 
much smaller contributions which are offset by receipts from his partner. That suggests any 
contributions Mr D made to rent and council tax were paid from another income source 
which I havent seen any evidence of. Ive therefore not taken these payments into account 
when considering Mr Ds disposable income.
Ive also not taken into account the payments Mr D was supposed to be making on the 
home credit loans. At the time, hed been in arrears on these for several years and Ive 
seen no evidence he was making payments.
In summary, Mr Ds testimony and evidence are inconsistent. From the evidence Ive seen 
it looks like Mr D had regular non-discretionary expenditure totalling around £1,120 per 
month, against income of £1,560 per month. That left him with around £440 per month to 
cover the hire purchase payments of £275 per month. On that basis, Im inclined to say that 
even if Startline had done more checks, theyd have found it was affordable for Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have responded to my provisional decision  so my findings remain 
unchanged.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Clare King
Ombudsman