DRN-4383434
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) acted without 
his permission or any authority when it sold his holdings, applying excessive dealing charges 
when it did this, and then transferred the cash proceeds to a third party investment platform 
provider (whom Ill call N to keep things simpler). 
Mr B wants HL to pay him compensation to cover financial loss he says he suffered as a 
result as well as redress for the time wasted, effort spent and distress its actions have 
caused him. 
What happened
Mr B held an execution only ISA stocks and shares account with HL and his complaint 
relates to what happened after he approached N and instructed it to request the 
transfer of his ISA to N.
This brief timeline sets out the background to this complaint.
31 July 2022  HL received a transfer request from N via ALTUS (an electronic 
system used to facilitate transfers between platform providers). Ive seen that this 
included a specific instruction that all Mr Bs assets should be encashed and the cash 
proceeds transferred to N.
1 August 2022 HLs records show an internal note to dealers timed at 9.40am to sell 
investments.
HL also sent a generic email to Mr B by secure message confirming that his new 
provider had made contact, HL had initiated the transfer and his requested holdings 
would be with the new provider shortly.
Around 3.40pm, Mr B phoned HL to say that he hadnt authorised the transfer or sale 
of his investments and he was unhappy that hed incurred costs of £1,000. HL 
explained it was acting on instructions received from N and that it had applied the 
correct dealing rate.
3 August 2022  Mr Bs stocks sold on 1 August were all settled on 3 August. 
When Mr B complained, HL didnt uphold his complaint, mainly saying that:
it had acted in good faith on a transfer request from N that it was entitled to 
rely on, and
Mr B had been correctly charged postal dealing rates of £50 per sale which 
applied when transferring investments out of HL, as per the terms and 
conditions hed signed up to when he opened the account.
HL said it believed N was responsible for the complaint and that it had referred 
this on to N. 
Mr B didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened. Our investigator didnt feel he had 
seen enough to be able to uphold the complaint. He mainly said he didnt think HL had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by completing the transfer in line with Ns request and the charges 
HL had applied were set out in the account terms and conditions.
Mr B didnt agree. He replied in detail to say, in summary, that he didnt feel hed been 
treated fairly or provided with clear information  he felt HLs 1 August message had been 
misleading and incorrect, in particular because  it did not mention that they would be 
selling my shares at £50 each within 2 hours of sending me the message, which prevented 
me from taking any mitigating actions. He feels he was charged a penalty dealing rate, 
substantially in excess of his usual dealing fees and that some of the information on its 
website had been changed. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive briefly summarised and expressed in my own words what seem to me to be Mr Bs main 
concerns and my focus is on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this and this approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative 
to the courts. We are impartial and we make our decisions based on a balance of 
probabilities. 
I must take into account the relevant law, regulatory requirements and best industry practice 
when making my decision. 
Having carefully considered everything, I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Its my understanding that issues central to Mr Bs complaint include his concerns that HL 
shouldnt have encashed his shares and when it did so, it levied hidden costs for transferring 
out his investments using the postal rate. He said it wasnt made clear on any of HLs 
documentation or on its website that it would be more cost effective for him to sell assets 
himself rather than for HL to do this. And Mr B felt that HL acted hastily when actioning the 
transfer request from N, which hes said he didnt see, completing the forced sale of his 
shares on a day he never intended them to be sold, which led to investment loss. 
I make findings as follows:
HL has provided a screenshot which shows that N requested a full cash transfer 
from HL. So this necessitated the sale of Mr Bs holdings. 
HL wasnt required to double check this request. Under the terms and conditions 
that Mr B had agreed to in order to be able to use his account, HL was entitled to 
rely on the following: Where we are instructed to transfer the full value of 
assets in your Account as cash, we will sell investments without further 
reference to you, or your new provider and our postal dealing rates will apply to 
those sales.  I appreciate that Mr B says terms and conditions have been updated since he 
opened his account, but HL says updates are explained to clients in quarterly 
Investment Reports  and the latest version is always available to view on its 
website. Terms and conditions he signed up to when transferring to HL in 2016 
say: When you use our services we will take this as acceptance and agreement 
of our terms, and you will be bound by them. Mr B signed to say that he had 
read and agreed this. If Mr B hadnt wanted to accept HLs terms and conditions, 
he wouldnt have been able to hold his investments in his HL stocks and shares 
ISA - which seems to me to be what he wanted, given that his complaint is that 
HL sold these investments against his wishes.
Terms and Conditions from 2017 onwards outlined that postal dealing charges 
would be applicable to sales placed following a transfer request. Information 
available on HLs website confirmed the postal dealing charge.
So I dont find that HL made any error when taking the action it did on receipt of the 
transfer request. 
Nonetheless, even though I have found that HL acted in line with its terms and 
conditions, Mr B was still entitled to expect HL to treat him fairly and reasonably 
and Ive considered this aspect carefully.
The Altus system is a well-established way for investment platform providers to 
manage transfers. It requires the acquiring provider (N) to ascertain the clients 
instructions and to provide the relevant information in an agreed format to the 
ceding provider (HL in this instance). I agree with HL that on receipt of a properly 
completed transfer request with all the information HL needed to know, it was 
fair and reasonable for HL to assume that the instructions faithfully reflected 
Mr Bs intentions. HL had no reason not to think this was the case. Reverting to 
Mr B for confirmation was unnecessary in these circumstances when no further 
clarification was required or expected  and delay could potentially have risked 
Mr B suffering avoidable investment loss. 
In the secure message HL sent to Mr B, a link was provided to information on its 
website about transferring to another provider. This gave Mr B direct access to 
information that included the following:
Cash or Stock Transfer?
Happy for a cash transfer? Well sell for you at this stage. 
If youve opted for a cash transfer, once the trades have settled, well 
organise the payment to your new provider.
And under Frequently asked questions:  
What happens when I sell my investment and transfer as cash? 
Selling shares  Your shares will be sold as soon as possible, and standard 
dealing rates will apply. This is a charge of 1% of the value of the trade 
(minimum charge £20, maximum charge £50) If youd prefer to sell your 
investments yourself before transferring, you can do this online at a 
cheaper rate for shares, investment trusts, gilts/bonds and ETFs.
So it's fair to say that HL took extra steps to make it easy for Mr B to access all the 
information he needed to know about the transfer process, bearing in mind that the transfer request from N indicated that hed already made the decision that he wanted 
to transfer cash, as opposed to stock, or any mix of the two.
I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint on the basis that HL was over hasty selling his 
shares. I would reasonably expect HL to action instructions received on a timely 
basis  and here, as soon as possible as HL had said it would do. As the timeline 
above shows, HL acted expeditiously on receipt of the transfer request. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr B read the 1 August message from HL differently to me, 
I dont find that there was anything I can fairly say was misleading. It confirmed that 
his transfer instructions had been received and actioned. Selling instructions had 
been issued and sales were underway, as its reasonable to expect in order for those 
sales to complete within a reasonable timeframe  as happened here.  
To sum up, based on all the information Ive seen and been told, I must conclude that:
HL responded correctly to Mr Bs request to sell his holdings
it was fair and reasonable for HL to action the transfer request from N
the charges levied for the sale of the holdings were clearly outlined in HLs Terms 
and Conditions and on its website, to which Mr B was specifically directed, so he 
couldve seen all this information
HLs 1 August communication acknowledged Mr Bs transfer instruction and set out 
general response timeframes. 
In order to uphold this complaint I would have to find that HL made an error or failed to act 
towards Mr B in a fair and reasonable way. After having taken into account everything that 
Mr B and HL have told me, I havent seen enough to show that HL did anything wrong or 
that it treated Mr B in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
So I cant uphold this complaint. 
In coming to my decision, I've thought carefully about everything Mr B has said, including his 
comments made in response to the investigators view. But he hasnt said anything that 
changes the outcome of this complaint. And if I have not answered every point Mr B has 
raised, its because I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect 
the outcome of his complaint and theres nothing more I can usefully add to what the 
investigator has said already. 
Even though this isnt the outcome Mr B mightve wished for, I hope that setting things out as 
I've done is helpful.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman