DRN-2670272
The complaint
Mr Q complains Suffolk Life Pensions Limited trading as Curtis Banks Pensions (Suffolk Life) 
delayed the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to another provider.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr Q requested for his SIPP held with Suffolk Life be transferred to another 
provider. Ill refer to the new provider as X.
Suffolk Life let Mr Q know they were unable to initiate the transfer due to his SIPP holding an 
investment in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) which had been suspended.
Mr Q complained to Suffolk Life saying they werent acting in the best interests of his SIPP 
by delaying the transfer. He said he wished to invest in gold bullion with X, and the price had 
increased.
Suffolk Life explained Mr Qs plan was being transferred in specie and pension legislation 
did not allow a fully crystallised plan to be split into separate tranches. Because of this theyd 
been unable to proceed while the WEIF remained suspended. Suffolk Life did confirm the 
suspension had since been lifted and Mr Qs transfer request had been re-instated.
In October 2019, Suffolk Life confirmed theyd completed the transfer of Mr Qs SIPP to X.
Mr Q remained unhappy, so he raised a further complaint about the unacceptable delays to 
the transfer saying hed been incorrectly informed the suspension of the WEIF meant Suffolk 
Life had been unable to sell any of his holdings. Mr Q said due to significant increases in the 
price of gold bullion between the time of his instruction and the sale hed suffered a financial 
loss.
Suffolk Life didnt agree theyd caused a delay. They explained theyd initially been unable to 
proceed with the transfer whilst the WEIF remained suspended. Following the suspension 
being lifted, Suffolk Life said theyd sent an interim cash payment to assist Mr Q prior to the 
transfer completing. 
Mr Q disagreed Suffolk Life werent at fault for a serious and unjustified delay, so he referred 
his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into this but didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr Q asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I can appreciate Mr Qs frustration that the transfer of his SIPP didnt proceed as 
quickly as he felt it should have. In complex transfers such as that of a SIPP, the sending 
scheme is reliant on several third parties to complete the switch. But its important for me to 
say, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Suffolk Life whom this complaint is 
against.
A partial transfer of a fully crystallised SIPP isnt possible. If the benefits have been 
designated to drawdown, the whole of the fund under the arrangement must be transferred 
in a single tranche.
Suffolk Life received Mr Qs completed transfer form back from X on 31 May 2019. The next 
working day the WEIF was suspended. Because Mr Qs SIPP held an investment in the 
WEIF, Suffolk Life were unable to initiate the transfer as theyd planned.
As of 10 July 2019, the WEIF corporate directors allowed investors to transfer their holding 
to other platforms so long as no assets were sold. This meant the transfer of Mr Qs SIPP 
could proceed. 
I understand by this time the price of gold bullion had already significantly increased, but the 
suspension of the WEIF was out of Suffolk Lifes control and Im satisfied they progressed 
the transfer without unreasonable delay, soon after the terms of the suspension allowed for 
it.
After requesting for re-registration details to be sent by X, Im satisfied Suffolk Life chased 
promptly and regularly for a response from both X and other third-party businesses involved 
in the process. And after receiving the details they required on 29 July 2019, Suffolk Life 
moved to the next stage of the transfer that same day.
Again, Im satisfied Suffolk Life continued to chase for a response regularly and they 
received confirmation from a third-party business a trade had been arranged for                  
14 August 2019 with a settlement date two days later. At this stage Suffolk Life were advised 
it could take up to 30 working days to process however it could be sooner.
Suffolk Life enquired as to the progress of the trade on 23 August 2019 but were told the 
assets were in the process of being moved and they werent required to provide anything 
else. It was then confirmed the fund had been received and would settle on                           
6 September 2019.
Prior to that on 4 September 2019, Suffolk Life received a request for an interim cash 
payment to be sent to X as soon as possible. Following receipt of the funds and Xs 
confirmation they were happy to accept an interim payment on 11 September 2019, Suffolk 
Life sent the payment by CHAPS on 17 September 2019.
I acknowledge three working days were lost by Suffolk Life not acting immediately upon Xs 
confirmation, but I dont consider this an unreasonable timeframe for them to have acted. 
And I can see when they did send the payment, it was sent by CHAPS ensuring it was 
received by X the same day without a cost being passed to Mr Q.
Suffolk Life then proceeded to request valuations and chase the reconciliation of the account 
before Mr Qs shareholdings were transferred in specie to X. A final cash payment was then 
made on 8 October 2019 and completion letters were sent to X on 11 October 2019.
In summary, Ive seen in the fact sheet provided, Suffolk Life say an in specie transfer to 
another scheme can take anywhere between one week and six months to completed. And 
whilst that doesnt mean I think a business should take longer than is required, I dont think 
Suffolk Life were responsible for the initial delay to the transfer of Mr Qs SIPP. 
And Im satisfied Suffolk Life acted fairly and reasonably to progress the transfer promptly 
once it could proceed. I dont think there was any unreasonable delays caused by Suffolk 
Life.For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Suffolk Life Pensions Limited 
trading as Curtis Banks Pensions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman