DRN-3050684
The complaint
Mr B complains that the advice he received in 2016 from Cowley & Miller Independent 
Financial Services Limited (Cowley & Miller) about his pension savings was inappropriate. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Cowley & Miller needed to do to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of that provisional decision but I include an 
extract from it below, for completeness. In my provisional decision I said;
Mr B held deferred pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). The 
majority of those pension benefits were in the form of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP) savings. 
In 2016 Mr Bs financial advisor referred him to Cowley & Miller in order that he could 
receive advice on the potential transfer of his pension savings. I can see that Mr B 
had also requested a transfer quotation from the OPS around a year before.
The majority of Mr Bs pension benefits were in the form of GMP savings. So that 
meant that he wouldnt generally be able to take those benefits until he reached age 
65. At that time Mr B was around five years younger. So if he wanted to take any of 
his pension benefits sooner, he would need to consider transferring his pension 
savings to another scheme.
Cowley & Millers analysis at the time detailed that Mr Bs over-riding objective was to 
raise capital in order to purchase a vehicle and tools for his gardening business. He 
said that taking additional bank debt to make those purchases would not be viable for 
him. So he wanted to make use of his pension commencement lump sum (PCLS)  
otherwise known as tax free cash  to support those purchases.
Cowley & Miller recommended that Mr B transfer his pension to a provider I will call 
A. It recommended that he take the maximum PCLS permitted by the legislation at 
that time, and that he use the remainder of his pension savings to purchase an 
annuity. Mr B accepted Cowley & Millers recommendation - the transfer was 
completed and the annuity put into payment in September 2016.
Cowley & Miller noted in its advice report that Mr B was in receipt of Universal Credit 
payments. His business wasnt particularly profitable and his income was highly 
seasonable. Mr B says that shortly after his annuity payments started he noticed that 
a corresponding reduction had been made to his Universal Credit benefits.
Mr B raised his concerns with Cowley & Miller. It asked A whether it would be willing 
to cancel the annuity if Mr B repaid the income hed received. But A said it wasnt 
able to do that since the request had been made after the regulatory 30-day 
cancellation period. Cowley & Miller then explained to Mr B that it didnt think the 
advice it had given was inappropriate. It said that it had warned him in its advice 
report that taking his pension benefits might affect his entitlement to Universal Credit.
I think it would be first helpful to consider the origins of the relationship between Mr B 
and Cowley & Miller. It seems that he was introduced to the firm by his normal 
financial advisor in order that he could receive some advice on the use of his pension 
savings. Mr B was required to take regulated advice before any transfer of those 
pension savings. 
Mr B held deferred pension benefits from a former employer in an OPS. Mr Bs 
pension benefits were largely GMP benefits and so could not be taken from the OPS 
by Mr B before the normal retirement age of 65. At the time the advice was given by 
Cowley & Miller Mr B was 60 years of age. 
Cowley & Miller noted its general advice to someone in Mr Bs position would have 
been to not transfer the benefits from the scheme, and wait until age 65 before taking 
them. But Cowley & Miller said that Mr Bs circumstances were such that it might be 
appropriate to consider a transfer of the pension savings to another scheme. Mr Bs 
overwhelming need at that time was to take his PCLS to help fund the purchase of 
tools and a vehicle for his self-employment. It seems at that time that Mr B was in 
relatively good health and gave no indication that he would stop working in the 
immediate future.
In the light of Mr Bs need to take his PCLS, Cowley & Miller considered various 
options in relation to Mr Bs pension savings. Of those it identified two options that 
would allow Mr B to access his PCLS at that time  purchasing an annuity on the 
open market, or moving his pension savings into a flexi-access drawdown plan. The 
latter option was then discounted as Cowley & Miller stated that Mr B required a 
guaranteed income for the future.
So Cowley & Millers advice to Mr B was to transfer his pension savings and 
purchase an annuity on the open market, taking the maximum PCLS allowed by the 
legislation. Mr B accepted Cowley & Millers recommendation and it assisted him with 
the transfer of his pension savings, and the purchase of an annuity.
It seems reasonable to me for Cowley & Miller to conclude that Mr Bs needs for 
capital to support his business at that time could only be met from his pension 
savings. So I do not consider the advice it gave to Mr B to transfer his pension 
savings and access the PCLS to be inappropriate. But I have concerns about the 
suitability of the remainder of the recommendation and the immediate purchase of an 
annuity.
At this stage I think it would be right to note that Mr B does not appear to be 
particularly experienced in matters such as these, or to have other resources to fall 
back on to support his future retirement. So I would expect that he would be heavily 
reliant on the advice he received from Cowley & Miller in directing him how to best 
provide for his current and future financial needs. So, although as I will discuss later, 
Cowley & Miller did provide Mr B with additional information about how his finances 
might be impacted by the choices he made, I think it would be reasonable for Mr B to 
base his decision primarily on the advice he was given by the firm. So it was 
Cowley & Millers responsibility to ensure that its advice placed Mr B in the best 
financial position he could reasonably be. 
Mr B had explained to Cowley & Miller that his business wasnt currently profitable. So at times, and particularly due to the seasonal nature of his work, he was in receipt 
of the Universal Credit benefit to support his income. But, as Cowley & Miller noted in 
its report, those benefits are means tested, so taking the PCLS or pension income 
might affect Mr Bs entitlement to the benefits. I think that was something that 
Cowley & Miller needed to factor into any recommendation it made to Mr B.
Once Mr B started to receive his annuity income, his Universal Credit payment was 
reduced by the same amount. So effectively the total income that Mr B was receiving 
each month was unchanged by his annuity being put into payment. It doesnt seem to 
me that a recommendation to that effect was in Mr Bs best financial interests  he 
could have maintained his income without depleting his pension savings.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Cowley & Miller to consider it appropriate that 
Mr B might find it useful to take a secure and predictable income for the future. But 
I havent seen anything in the details that it gathered from Mr B that would suggest 
he needed that income immediately. It was simply the PCLS that Mr B needed at that 
time. So I think a more appropriate recommendation would have been for Mr B to 
defer making any decisions about how to use the remainder of his retirement savings 
until he reached state pension age.
I have considered the argument presented by Cowley & Miller that Mr B is trying to 
manipulate the benefit system to his own advantage. And it does seem, that by not 
taking an annuity at the time, Mr B would have maximised the benefit payments he 
was entitled to receive. But I think that was something he was perfectly entitled to do. 
The current regulations do not require recipients of Universal Credit to take any 
pension benefits available to them until they reach state retirement age. And Mr B 
was a number of years away from that point when he received the advice from 
Cowley & Miller.
Deferring taking an annuity would also have other benefits for Mr B. Since he would 
be five years older, the amount of the annuity he would have received would be 
increased. And it would also mean that, at a time he was making an irrevocable 
decision about the form of his future retirement income, he might have a better idea 
of his likely future needs. I cannot see any grounds to reasonably conclude that it 
was in Mr Bs best financial interests to purchase an annuity at the same time he took 
his PCLS.
So whilst I dont think the recommendation to transfer his pension savings was 
inappropriate, I dont think Cowley & Miller should have advised Mr B to purchase an 
annuity at the same time. Instead I think it would have been right to leave his 
remaining pension savings invested so that Mr B could make a further decision on 
their use when he reached state retirement age. So I think Cowley & Miller needs to 
put things right for Mr B.  
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr B and Cowley & Miller have responded. Although I am only 
summarising below what they have said, I want to reassure both parties that I have read and 
considered their full responses carefully.
Cowley & Miller has said that it doesnt agree with my provisional decision. It says that this 
pension was the only provision Mr B had for his retirement so it was crucial in providing 
retirement income. It says the size of the fund was too small to consider an income 
drawdown arrangement, and taking that approach would not have been consistent with 
Mr Bs capacity for loss or his attitude to investment risk.Mr B agreed with my provisional decision. He expressed disappointment that 
Cowley & Miller had not accepted the findings of the investigator  he said that both the 
annuity provider and Cowley & Miller had encouraged him to bring his complaint to this 
Service after Cowley & Miller had failed to persuade the annuity provider to cancel the 
original agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the responses of both parties, I am not persuaded that I should change my 
provisional findings. But I would like to comment further on the matters raised by 
Cowley & Miller.
In my provisional decision I accepted that, in normal circumstances, it wouldnt generally be 
advised to transfer benefits such as these from the OPS. However I agreed with 
Cowley & Millers recommendation that, having considered Mr Bs specific circumstances 
and needs, a recommendation to transfer the benefits was appropriate.
But I think that should then have led Cowley & Miller to further consider how Mr B might take 
his retirement benefits  and perhaps disregard some of its normal approaches. Im thinking 
specifically here about the comment Cowley & Miller has made that the size of Mr Bs 
pension savings was too small to justify taking an income drawdown option. I dont entirely 
disagree that a standard income drawdown approach would have been unsuitable  but as 
I said in my provisional decision I think an adapted approach where Mr B took his PCLS 
immediately and then deferred any decision on the remainder of his pension savings was 
right. It was not in his best interests, at the time of the advice, to supplement his income from 
employment and state benefits by using his retirement savings.
I dont think that, by deferring a decision on the purchase of an annuity Mr B was placing the 
security of his retirement income at unnecessary risk. Instead I think it could be argued that 
taking that approach might have led to an increase in his retirement income. And as I said in 
my provisional decision I dont think taking that approach was at all at odds with the 
guidelines around claiming the Universal Credit benefit before reaching state retirement age.
So I dont think Cowley & Miller should have advised Mr B to purchase an annuity at the 
same time as he took his PCLS. Instead I think it would have been right to leave his 
remaining pension savings invested so that Mr B could make a further decision on their use 
when he reached state retirement age. I think Cowley & Miller needs to put things right for 
Mr B.   
Putting things right
As I have previously set out, the decision Mr B took to purchase an annuity was irrevocable. 
So I cant place Mr B exactly into the position he would have been if the advice hed received 
from Cowley & Miller was different. And in any case Mr Bs circumstances have radically 
changed since then  with ill health meaning that it is unlikely he will be able to work again.
The ill-health that Mr B now faces wasnt reasonably foreseeable by Cowley & Miller. But the 
expectation that Mr B would continue to be reliant on Universal Credit for a proportion, or all, 
of his normal income was. So it is the shortfall caused to that income that I think it is 
reasonable to ask Cowley & Miller to meet in order to compensate Mr B for the inappropriate 
advice he received. As I have said, Mr Bs Universal Credit benefits have been reduced by the amount of annuity 
income that he has received. So I think it right that a payment equal to the reduction in 
Mr Bs Universal Credit income from the start of the annuity to his state retirement age (that 
is, equal to the pension annuity income he has received, and will receive until November 
2021) is made to him.
I think a payment of this nature will allow Mr B to make a further decision about his 
retirement income when he reaches state pension age in November  a decision I think he 
should have been making if the advice hed received from Cowley & Miller was as I have 
suggested above. I think it would act as a reasonable proxy for the higher annuity Mr B might 
have been able to purchase at that time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Cowley & Miller Independent 
Financial Services Limited to put things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman