DRN-4337070
The complaint
Ms O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In April 2021, Ms O came across an advert about cryptocurrency while she was searching 
online for investment opportunities. She responded by uploading her contact details and 
shortly afterwards she was contacted by someone claiming to be a broker working for a 
company Ill refer to as W. The broker told her he traded in foreign currency or forex and 
cryptocurrency.
Before going ahead with the investment, Ms O conducted an online search on W, which 
satisfied her it was a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform. She also asked to speak 
with a senior staff member, who also reassured her the investment was genuine. 
The broker asked her to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load the cryptocurrency onto her online wallet. He told her about another 
leading cryptocurrency exchange platform and said it would be sensible to use multiple 
platforms to diversify her portfolio and to avoid any payments being delayed. Between 21 
August 2021 and 15 October 2021, Ms O made seven payments to two cryptocurrency 
exchange companies totalling £29,236.65 via online transfer from her NatWest account. 
In December 2021, the broker told Ms O that her investment had increased in value to 
approximately £150,000, so she tried to make a withdrawal. She realised shed been the 
victim of a scam when she was unable to access the funds.
Ms O complained to NatWest, but it refused to refund the money shed lost. It said that 
during a call on 21 August 2021, she was asked whether shed been approached by a 
broker, and she said she had not. It said she was given several warnings about the risks 
associated with the investment, including the use of Anydesk software. It also said she was 
offered additional time to consider the advice, but she declined and insisted it should release 
the payments.
Ms O wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service arguing NatWest didnt do 
enough to identify the transactions as being potentially fraudulent.
NatWest said Ms O had admitted to not having read the online warning messages displayed 
prior to making the disputed transfers, and during the call on 21 August 2021 she said 
several times that she hadnt been approached by a broker. And she ignored the warnings it 
gave about the potential risks. It also said she took six months to report the scam, and that 
the payments of £273.36 and £1,903.63 on 3 September 2021 and 23 October 2021 were 
credits into her account from the cryptocurrency exchange, not payments out as shed 
originally claimed. 
NatWest also said a further payment had flagged for checks on 26 August 2021 when Ms O 
tried to transfer £4,500. It was unable to provide a recording, but it said Ms O confirmed the 
payment was genuine and a scam warning was provided.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained the Contingent 
Reimbursement model (CRM) code didnt apply to the payments because they were to an 
account in Ms Os name and control. She noted Ms O disputed the account was in her name 
and control, but she hadnt provided any evidence to support this.
Our investigator said NatWest should have done more during the call on 21 August 2021 
because there were hallmarks present including the use of AnyDesk and the fact this was a 
payment to a cryptocurrency exchange. She thought NatWest should have asked questions 
about whether the money would be transferred on from the cryptocurrency exchange, how 
she came across the investment opportunity and whether she received any documentation 
from the merchant confirming her investment. But she didnt think this would have made any 
difference to the outcome because she didnt think Ms O wouldve been forthcoming or 
truthful in her responses to further questions. 
She didnt think NatWest ought to have intervened when Ms O made the later payments 
because by then there was an established pattern of spending, so the payments werent 
unusual and given the time that had elapsed, it was unlikely it would have been able to 
recover the funds from the recipient account.
Ms O has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Her representative 
has explained Ms O built a strong, trusting relationship with the broker and he took 
advantage of her lack of investment experience. They explained they would talk almost 
every day and he portrayed himself as very confident and knowledgeable and that he had 
her best interests in mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms O has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Ms O says shes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. NatWest said the CRM code didnt apply in this case 
because the disputed payments were paid to an account in Ms Os name, and Im satisfied 
thats fair.
Her representative has suggested that Ms O didnt consider the cryptocurrency exchange 
account was in her name and control because it was set up during the course of fraud, but 
she told NatWest the account was in her name during the call on 21 August 2022 and in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied that was the case and that the wallet 
addresses she says were provided by the broker were not the accounts she paid money to 
from her NatWest account.Im also satisfied Ms O authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Ms O is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Ms O didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. NatWest is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, 
NatWest had an obligation to be alert to fraud and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have done more to warn Ms O when she 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect NatWest to intervene with a view to protecting Ms O from financial harm due to fraud. 
The first payment did flag as suspicious on NatWests systems, and Ive listened to the call 
dated 21 August 2022, during which Ms O confirmed the payment was genuine and that she 
hadnt been instructed to move the money by a third party. She said the cryptocurrency 
exchange account was in her control and that she hadnt been contacted by anyone claiming 
to be an account manager or broker. There was also a conversation about Anydesk and she 
told the call handler her friend had told her to download it because he was helping her with a 
problem with her computer.
The call handler checked she hadnt given anyone access to the account she held with the 
cryptocurrency exchange company, and she confirmed that she hadnt. He also asked 
whether shed researched the investment and that she understood the risks, including the 
fact the payee wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). She was then 
read a scam warning from the FCA website before the payment was released.
Unfortunately, Ms O wasnt entirely open in her responses, and this meant the call handler 
didnt have enough information to identify this was a scam. Our investigator has said he 
should have asked more questions about whether she planned to transfer the money on 
from the cryptocurrency exchange, how she learned about the investment opportunity and 
whether she had received any documentation from the merchant to confirm her investment. 
Considering her responses and the fact this was a large payment I think the call handler 
probably did enough. But I agree with our investigator that even if the call handler had been 
more robust in his questions, its unlikely shed have divulged any more information and so it wouldnt have made any difference to the outcome, especially as shed done some research 
and built a rapport with the broker. 
So, in the absence of any warnings on either the FCA or IOSCO websites, having pointed 
out the fact Anydesk was associated with scams and providing a warning about the risk of 
scams, there was little else NatWest could reasonably have done to change Ms Os mind 
about going ahead with the investment.
The payments increased in value as the scam progressed. But NatWest intervened again on 
26 August 2021 and so by 30 September 2021 when she paid £6719.13 to the second 
cryptocurrency exchange, there was an established pattern of spending and there had been 
two calls during which Ms O had been given scam warnings. So, the later payments werent 
unusual or suspicious and there was no reason for NatWest to intervene again.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Ms O 
has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think NatWest is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman