DRN-2167025
The complaint
Mr A says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr A between April 2017 
and June 2019. Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 16/04/2017 26/09/2017 12 £550.00 £79.02
2 29/09/2017 23/08/2018 12 £1,050.00 £149.95
3 27/08/2018 27/06/2019 12 £1,400.00 £202.58
4 28/06/2019 20/10/2019 12 £1,300.00 £188.93
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr As complaint and thought the loans from loan 3 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the overall pattern of Mr As borrowing indicated he was 
reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. MYJAR disagreed 
and said it felt its checks were proportionate given the early stage of the lending relationship. 
It also felt loan 3 was too early to establish a pattern in lending and it asked for an 
ombudsmans review.  
So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr As complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr As complaint about loans 1 and 2. Mr A hasnt provided 
any further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further 
findings on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr A, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr As case, I think that this point was reached by loan 3. I say 
this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr A had taken out three loans in 16 months. So, it should have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr A was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr As 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr As first loan was for £550 and loan 3 was for £1,400. At this point MYJAR ought 
to have known that it was unlikely Mr A was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan 4 was 
taken out over two years after Mr As first and was for a significantly larger amount. 
Mr A had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect; service a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr A lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr A borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr As ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr As complaint about loans 3 and 4 and MYJAR should put things right. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about loans 3 and 4 is adverse. So, all entries about these 
loans should be removed from Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR Limited to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR Limited 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr As complaint. MYJAR Limited should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman