DRN-2007322
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Birmingham Midshires, 
mis-sold them a monthly premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were sold a MPPI policy in 1993. This would have provided a monthly benefit 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or Mrs H were off work sick or became unemployed.
The monthly benefit was split between Mr and Mrs H so that if Mr H was unable to work he 
would have received 75% of the total monthly benefit and if Mrs H was unable to work she 
would have received 25% of the total monthly benefit. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs H will be disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs H were eligible under the policy. Based on Mr 
and Mrs Hs age and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale (I note the 
change in Mr Hs situation in January 1994 but what Im concerned with here is the 
circumstances as at the date of sale), Im satisfied they were eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mr and Mrs Hs account.  Mr and Mrs H say they were 
unaware that they had been sold MPPI. Had they been asked, they say they would have 
refused it as they say that MPPI was unsuitable for them. This is because they say they had 
sufficient existing repayment means available to them at the time of the sale and Mr Hs 
circumstances were due to change in that he was investing into a business of which he 
became the owner/director in January 1994.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately (though 
understandably) due to the length of time that has passed since the sale, BoS no longer 
have the documents from the time of the sale. In these circumstances I cant fairly conclude 
that they didnt present the policy as optional or that they didnt get Mr and Mrs Hs consent 
simply because they are not able to show otherwise, particularly when I have information 
that might suggest otherwise.
My understanding of the sales process from around the time of the sale is that PPI is likely to 
have been presented as optional and would only have been applied to the account if Mr and 
Mrs H had agreed to take it out. And although I appreciate what Mr and Mrs H have told us, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that on this occasion its more likely that BoS 
didnt present the policy as optional and/or didnt get their consent. 
I note in particular the way the benefit level was split between the parties - I think this 
indicates that some sort of a conversation would have taken place about MPPI. And 
although this was some years later (2001), Mrs H made a successful claim on the policy. I 
have also seen notes of communication in 2002 between the business and Mrs H regarding 
the policys benefit split and correspondence received about MPPI. So its clear that at this 
stage Mr and Mrs H would have been aware that a policy was in place but they did not 
question that they had it and nor did they raise any issues about being unaware they had 
been sold a MPPI policy. Mr and Mrs H have previously indicated that they only became 
aware they had been mis-sold MPPI recently after they moved houses, implying this is when 
they first became aware they had been sold a MPPI policy.
So, all in all, based on the information available to me, I cant say its more likely that Mr and 
Mrs H were unaware that they had been sold MPPI. And there is insufficient evidence for me 
to be able to conclude that its more likely that the MPPI wasnt presented as optional.
BoS say they advised Mr and Mrs H to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. Mr and Mrs H say the policy wasnt suitable for them for the reasons 
already mentioned. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the 
MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this 
because:
- The MPPI would have paid out in addition to any employee benefits Mr and/or Mrs H 
would have received at the time of the sale and likely for a longer period of time. I 
appreciate the point that Mr H has made which is that at the time of taking out this 
mortgage, he had started the process of investing in a family business of which he 
became a company director in January 1994. So he thinks the policy would have 
been unsuitable for him in that situation. I dont know if Mr Hs upcoming change in 
circumstances was discussed at the time of the sale. But Ive checked the policys 
terms and conditions and note that Mr H would still have been able to make a claim 
under the policy even in his changed circumstances.
- Mr and Mrs H say they had savings at the time of the sale and that they could have 
relied on the family and family business for help if need be. I havent seen evidence 
of these savings but this is understandable given the length of time since the sale. 
However, its not guaranteed that these savings would still have been available to Mr 
and Mrs H if/when the need arose. I note from the contact with BoS that Mrs H had 
savings in a joint account with her mother and that some funds were used towards 
home improvements and Mr H was in the process of investing in his business. But 
even if some savings were still available for Mr and Mrs H if/when the need arose, 
these could have been used for essential living expenses while the MPPI took care of 
the mortgage repayments. With regards to support from the family, this isnt 
something which I would expect BoS to consider as sufficient as an alternative 
repayment means given that this support was not guaranteed and circumstances 
change.
- Mr and Mrs H dont appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which 
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy. As 
already mentioned above Mr H would not have been prevented from making a claim even after his change in circumstances and Mrs H did make a successful claim in 
2001.
- I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H.
- Mr and Mrs H could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs H wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs H this 
MPPI policy. Which means BoS dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs H.
But BOS have paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because 
BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS have paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc do not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc do have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman