DRN-3545543
The complaint
Mr J complains that Sovereign Money Matters Ltd (SMM) has failed to invest his pension 
contributions in line with his instructions.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what SMM needed to do to put things 
right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness 
and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr J holds pension savings with SMM. The investment of those pension savings was 
managed under an investment mandate provided to a third party. That firm provided 
a series of model portfolios which would be used by clients to invest their monies 
appropriate to their chosen risk profiles. Mr J had agreed for his pension savings to 
be invested in line with a cautious portfolio.
In 2017 Mr J agreed to increase his monthly pension contributions to £250 per 
month. But for reasons that have not been entirely established SMM failed to apply 
the correct investment mandate to those contributions. So, until SMM identified the 
problem in 2020, Mr Js pension contributions remained held in cash.
In April 2020, after the issue had been identified, SMM discussed the investment of 
Mr Js future pension contributions. At that time Mr J asked that the future 
contributions remained held in cash pending the outcome of his complaint. And he 
repeated that instruction in a further conversation in July 2020. Mr J accepts that, 
with the benefit of hindsight, he should have given investment instructions for his 
more recent contributions. So in this decision I will only be considering those 
contributions that he made before April 2020.
SMM accepts that it was responsible for the failure to invest Mr Js pension 
contributions between August 2017 and April 2020. But its calculations (completed as 
at 28 April 2020) suggested that, had the contributions been invested as per Mr Js 
instructions, they would be worth less than the cash that Mr J held. So it didnt think 
he had suffered any loss. Mr J was unhappy with that outcome so brought his 
complaint to this Service.
There seems little dispute that Mr J had given SMM a valid instruction for the 
investment of his pension contributions from August 2017 onwards. And I also think it 
is reasonable for me to conclude that his investment instruction, for new 
contributions, changed in April 2020 when Mr J asked SMM to continue to hold them 
in cash. So for this decision I only need to consider the contributions that SMM failed 
to invest for Mr J between August 2017 and April 2020.
SMM, when calculating whether Mr J has lost out, appears to have taken the view 
that its liability ended when it pointed out the mistake to Mr J in April 2020. Whilst 
I accept that is the case for new contributions, I dont think that approach should also 
apply to the previously uninvested contributions.
As I said earlier, my aim when looking at what SMM needs to do to put things right, is 
to put Mr J back into the position he would have been had nothing gone wrong. Had 
his pension contributions been correctly invested, he would now hold a range of 
investments in line with the model portfolio provided by the investment manager. 
I can see that, in addition to the uninvested cash, Mr J does hold approximately 50% 
of his pension savings invested in that way. So I have no reason to doubt that, had 
Mr Js pension contributions been invested, they would still be invested and not held 
in cash.
 
So I dont think it right that SMM should have expected Mr J to take action himself to 
correct the errors it had made in the preceding three years. But for its errors Mr Js 
pension contributions would be invested in line with the model portfolio. And I think 
those investments would continue today. So I think it right that SMM calculates what 
the expected value of those investments would have been, at the date of any final 
decision, and provides compensation for Mr J if that value is greater than the 
contributions he has made.
I accept that calculating that compensation will be complex. The model portfolio will 
have changed over time to reflect different constituent investment funds. So I think it 
reasonable that SMM should use the overall published performance of the model 
portfolio to derive what Mr Js pension contributions should now be worth. That is 
largely the approach it took when looking at the redress in 2020  but those 
calculations should now be updated to reflect any investment performance in the 
intervening period.
Mr J gave a valid instruction to SMM for the investment of his pension contributions. 
I dont think he bears any responsibility for not identifying the problem sooner. I have 
no doubts that this problem will have caused him a degree of distress and 
inconvenience. So in addition I currently intend to direct that SMM pays Mr J a further 
£250.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both SMM and Mr J have confirmed they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I think 
SMM needs to put things right for Mr J as I set out in my provisional decision and I repeat 
below.Putting things right
My aim is that Mr J should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the pension contributions he made between August 2017 and April 2020 been 
correctly invested.
What must SMM do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, I intend to direct that SMM must:
Compare the cash value of Mr J's contributions made between August 2017 and 
April 2020 (including any tax relief) with that of the benchmark shown below. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
SMM should add interest if necessary as set out below.
If there is a loss, SMM should pay into Mr J's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If SMM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr J's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr J wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr J would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr J £250 for the distress and inconvenience this error has caused to him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SMM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. SMM should give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr J asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
NameStatus Benchmark From (Start 
Date)To (End 
Date)Additional 
interest
Pension 
ContributionsStill exists 
and liquidPublished or
calculated
performance 
of
chosen 
model
portfolioDate of
each
contributionDate of my
final
decision8% simple 
per
year from 
final
decision to
settlement (if
not settled
within 28 
days
of the
business
receiving the
complainant's
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual cash value of Mr Js uninvested contributions.
Fair value
This is what the contributions would have been worth at the end date had they produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Each additional contribution that Mr J paid into the pension should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
SMM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Sovereign Money Matters Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman