DRN-2757953
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way Prestige Finance Limited has dealt with his loan account.
What happened
Mr E took out a second charge loan for around £30,000 in 2006. It was taken out on an 
interest only basis with GE Money over a 25 year term. In 2015, the loan was transferred to 
Prestige.
Mr E complained to Prestige in 2020. And Prestige issued a final response letter. It said, in 
summary:
Mr E had complained about a substantial increase in his balance. And it could see 
that GE Money had decreased the interest rate to 0% on a permanent basis so that 
no further interest would be accrued. Unfortunately due to a system error interest had 
been applied and backdated to January 2009. It apologised, and confirmed that it 
had corrected Mr Es account and reduced the balance back from around £80,000 to 
around £48,000.
The reason why Mr Es current balance was higher than the initial sum borrowed was 
due to the payments not being made as per the agreement, which resulted in his 
account falling into arrears. As the account had been in substantial arrears for the 
majority of the term, the additional interest accrued was significant. As the interest 
rate had been reduced to 0% no further interest would be accrued. But if Mr E did not 
make payments then he might still incur charges which would be applied to the 
balance;
It had reviewed the charges which had been applied to the account. And it had found 
some instances where Mr E had paid at least the contractual monthly amount and it 
was not able to evidence that sufficient additional work was undertaken in those 
months to justify the application of a charge. So it refunded £515 to Mr Es account.
Mr E was not happy with the response received from Prestige, and asked this service to 
investigate his complaint.
Our investigator explained that she could only look at the parts of the complaint arising after 
1 April 2014, when GE Money entered our compulsory jurisdiction. She said, in summary:
She could see from the original loan agreement that Mr E took out a loan of £30,872 
including the broker and lenders fees and payment protection insurance. And she 
could see from the contact notes that the account had been in arrears for most of the 
term of the mortgage, and that Mr E had also been on a repayment arrangement plan 
but this was broken on several occasions. As arrears had been growing from the time 
Mr E took out the loan she didnt think that there was anything wrong with the 
outstanding balance;
Prestige had confirmed that its system error had caused an interest rate of 11.15% to 
be backdated to the account, which increased the total outstanding balance. This 
error had now been corrected and Prestige had set the interest rate at 0% from 1 
September 2015, reducing the balance to around £48,000.
Mr E was struggling to make his payments and Prestige was threatening to take legal 
action. She appreciated that this was upsetting for Mr E. But she was satisfied that 
Prestige had shown forbearance by agreeing to repayment arrangement plans on 
several occasions and continuing to keep the interest rate at 0% so that Mr E could 
continue to make his monthly payments and eventually repay his loan. And she didnt 
think it unreasonable that Prestige should attempt to contact Mr E to agree a 
repayment arrangement plan and make him aware of the actions it might have to 
take if the payments werent made on the account.;
She had looked at the charges and fees applied by Prestige alongside the 
transaction history and contact notes. She didnt think it was unfair to add arrears 
related charges and third party costs as Prestige needed to carry out additional work 
for most of the term when those payments werent made and repayment 
arrangements were broken. And she felt it was reasonable for GE Money and 
Prestige to have had concerns and instruct solicitors and field agents when they did;
She could see that Prestige had offered to reverse the arrears related charges where 
Mr E had made late payments and she felt that this was fair and reasonable. So 
overall she didnt think the charges were applied to the account unfairly.
She could understand how upsetting it would have been for Mr E when he 
discovered that his outstanding mortgage balance increased to around £80,000. 
Although Prestige had accepted and resolved its errors she felt it should pay £200 for 
the additional stress caused to Mr E.
Prestige has accepted our investigators view and has agreed to pay Mr E £200 
compensation for the additional stress caused. But Mr E does not agree and has asked for 
his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the arguments and evidence in relation to this complaint, I 
have come to the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
As the investigator has explained, the original lender  GE Money  only came within the 
compulsory jurisdiction of this service on 1 April 2014. So, for the avoidance of doubt, my 
decision only deals with issues that arose after that date.
Balance of account
Ive looked at the original loan agreement. And I see that Mr E took out a loan of £30,872 
including broker and lender fees, and payment protection insurance.
Ive also looked at the statements for the account. I can see that Mr Es account has 
frequently been in arrears. And, as a result, fees and charges were applied to his account 
due to the extra work needed to service his account.
Prestige has explained that GE Money decided to reduce the interest rate to 0% in 2015. 
Due to a system error, an interest rate of 11.15% was applied to the account in 2019 which 
increased the total outstanding balance. But I can see from subsequent statements that this 
issue has now been put right and that, as a result, the balance has reduced to around 
£48,000.
When Prestige reviewed Mr Es account, it also refunded £515 to his account in respect of fees and charges applied when he had made at least the minimum contractual payments. 
Im persuaded that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest that the remaining fees and charges were incorrectly charged. Prestige 
is allowed to charge arrears management fees and third party costs to reflect its costs where 
it has to carry out extra work as a result of missed payments. 
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that the outstanding balance of Mr Es 
account is incorrect.
Financial difficulties
Mr E has confirmed that he is struggling to make his payments, and that Prestige has 
caused him a great deal of stress by threatening to take legal action.
I sympathise with Mr E. But, having reviewed the contact notes, I agree with our investigator 
that Prestige has shown forbearance in agreeing to repayment arrangement plans on 
several occasions and also by keeping the interest rate at 0%. Lenders should only be 
considering taking legal action to repossess a property as a last resort. But looking at all the 
conversations that have taken place and the options explored, Im satisfied Prestige were 
taking this action as a last resort as Mr E just simply wasnt able to afford the loan payments.
 Although I appreciate that Mr E finds contact from Prestige stressful, I dont find it 
unreasonable for Prestige to contact him to try to agree a repayment plan, or to keep him 
informed of action it might take to recover the arrears. In fact, its required to do that so that 
Mr E is informed and clear of the position of the loan. So I dont require Prestige to do 
anything further in relation to this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
Putting things right
I do appreciate the worry caused to Mr E when he found that his outstanding mortgage 
balance had  incorrectly  increased to around £80,000. Our investigator suggested that 
Prestige should pay Mr E £200 for the additional stress caused to him as a result of this 
error. And, although I appreciate that Mr E doesnt agree, having very carefully considered 
the circumstances of this case I find this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Prestige Finance Limited to pay 
Mr E £200.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman