DRN-3350731
The complaint
Mr B and his wife Ms B complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited should meet a 
claim on her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The vehicle involved in this claim and this complaint is a hatchback first registered in 2018.
Mr or Ms  B had the vehicle on a lease.
For the year from late June 2020, Ms B had the vehicle insured with Admiral. The policy 
covered Ms B as the policyholder. The policy also covered Mr B and his son as named 
drivers.
In the early hours of 31 December 2020 or 1 January 2021, Mr Bs son was moving the car 
when it (and third party property) was damaged in an accident. Police arrived and Mr Bs son 
failed a roadside breath test for alcohol. 
On 3 January 2021, Mr B made a claim to Admiral. In late January 2021, it said it wouldnt 
indemnify Mr Bs son because he had been over the limit for alcohol.
Mr B complained to Admiral that it should pay the claim. By a final response dated early 
June 2021, Admiral said its Drink and Drugs clause applied because of the roadside test and 
notwithstanding that there was no prosecution and conviction.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in mid-July 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim and had not made any errors. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The drink and drugs clause was not clear at all. Admiral did not clearly inform him of 
this  it is hidden. If Admiral said it had a zero-alcohol policy and would take its 
decision on a single reading (not as per the law two readings) he would not insure 
himself or his family.
His sons passenger had ordered a cab. So his son decided to go in it and was 
moving his car down the road to avoid a parking ticket later that morning.
Mr B was at the scene before police. His son failed a roadside test, but this was 
clearly a faulty machine. His son was not intoxicated. In fact he was very clear when 
talking to the police. 
Mr B had no experience in such an incident. He was responsible for a misjudgment / 
misinformed information.
Mr Bs son was not prosecuted for excess alcohol and Admiral has no firm evidence 
to substantiate their decision not to provide an indemnity under the terms of the 
policy.
Mr B lost his job in January. He has had mental health issues and Covid.
His son has no conviction to declare to any new insurer, and as such Admiral is not 
treating its customer fairly by refusing the deal with the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals drink and drugs clause was as follows:
 11. Drink and drugs clause
If an accident happens whilst you or any person entitled to drive un Section 3 of your 
current Certificate of Motor Insurance is driving your car and.
ois found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
ois driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
ofails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, 
without lawful reason
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to
meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances, 
we will recover from you or the driver, all sums paid (including al legal costs), 
whether in settlement or under a judgement, of any claim arising from the accident.
Thats not an unusual clause in my view, but it is a significant clause. Im satisfied that it was 
clear enough.
The evidence available to Admiral included the following:
Mr Bs son hadnt planned to drive the car home. He had planned to leave it parked 
overnight and take a cab.
The accident was in the early hours.
Mr Bs son failed a roadside breath test.
A false positive test is a possibility. And further testing wouldve been necessary to support a 
prosecution and conviction on the criminal standard of beyond reasonable doubt. 
But Mr B says he was at the scene in the aftermath of the accident. From the way that Mr B 
reported the accident to Admiral on 3 January 2021, I dont find that he considered that the 
result of the beath test had been incorrect.
So I dont find it unfair that Admiral decided that  on the civil standard of the balance of 
probabilities  Mr Bs son had the accident while he had been driving and had been found to 
be over the legal limit for alcohol. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to meet the claim for Ms Bs car or to 
indemnify Mr Bs son against any other claim arising out of the accident.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman