DRN-2255906
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have acted unfairly by 
requiring him to visit a branch in order to re-activate a dormant account.
What happened
Mr H has an account with Halifax. When he wanted to access the account using online 
banking, he found that the account had become dormant due to inactivity. Halifax said that in 
order to re-activate the account, hed need to visit a branch and confirm his identity.
Mr H said he couldnt do this, as he works two jobs and has caring responsibilities for his 
wife who has a serious illness, and a young child. Halifax offered to look into whether there 
were branches near Mr H which had suitable opening hours so that he could visit. Mr H said 
the need for him to visit the branch was unreasonable given his circumstances.
He complained to Halifax who rejected his complaint. As Mr H was dissatisfied, he brought 
the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. 
She said that Halifaxs position that Mr H needed to follow its process to re-activate an 
account was fair. Mr H didnt agree with this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an account becomes dormant, Halifaxs process is that in order for it to be re-
activated, the account holder needs to attend a branch in person with proof of identity. Our 
service wont usually instruct a business what processes it should have, but will look at 
whether its fair for it to ask consumers to follow those processes in the specific 
circumstances of a complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, Im satisfied that its fair for Halifax to ask Mr 
H to visit a branch in order for him to re-activate the account. Its clear that the process 
Halifax has in place is for security reasons. It asks account holders wanting to re-activate an 
account to prove their identity, in person at a branch. By doing this, it can be satisfied that it 
is indeed the account holder re-activating the account, which ensures that its the account 
holder who will have access to the funds in the account. 
I understand the circumstances Mr H is in. Hed find it difficult to get to a branch due to his 
various caring responsibilities and work. But I can see that Halifax has attempted to assist 
Mr H in finding a branch which he can get to and which is open at a time when hed be able 
to attend. I think this was a reasonable offer in the circumstances, but according to the 
evidence I have, Mr H declined this offer.
I think that Halifax has acted fairly in asking Mr H to visit the branch in order to re-activate 
the account. Its followed its processes and I dont think there were grounds for it to 
disregard these, given that they are in place to ensure account holders security. I wont be 
asking Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman