DRN-1689244
The complaint
Mr H feels that Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com has treated him 
unfairly in relation to a Loan.
What happened
Mr H says that Everyday has treated him unfairly because it set up his repayments to his 
new loan incorrectly. He says it didnt close off his previous loan quickly enough, so it kept 
showing on his credit file. He also says Everyday has been harassing him and the loan 
guarantor for payment whilst hes been disputing the matter. 
Initially when Mr H complained it apologised and said it would give feedback to its staff. Mr H 
remained unhappy. Everyday has subsequently acknowledged its mistakes and has offered 
Mr H to rework the loan so the repayments are fortnightly as agreed originally (as opposed 
to monthly) and it has offered him £250 for the distress and inconvenience suffered. 
However it has chosen to continue to ask Mr H to make the loan repayments. Recently due 
to a bereavement Everyday is only asking the guarantor to pay the loan repayments. 
Everyday says this offer is fair and is treating him fairly.
When this service put Everydays offer to Mr H he chose not to accept it and continued to not 
make repayments. It has been explained to Mr H that Everyday is entitled to be paid the 
money he owes it. The investigator felt that the offer from Everyday was fair in the 
circumstances. But Mr H remains unhappy, so this complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying Im very sorry to hear of Mr Hs loss.
Mr H entered into a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Everyday in March 2019. He was 
advanced £4500 to be repaid over four years. Everyday accepts that during the application 
process Mr H wanted to pay fortnightly and that was agreed by Everyday. It accepts it 
mistakenly set up the repayments on a monthly basis. It has also offered £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H but has not described how it has attributed that 
amount to the various things that went wrong.
I have considered the evidence and am satisfied that Mr H did want the repayments on a 
fortnightly basis to mirror when he gets paid. Its clear it offered to change this in October 
2019 and Mr H declined the offer to do this (and the £250). I think this change of repayment 
structure is a fair offer to settle that particular issue.
Mr H has pointed to his credit file when he originally complained to say that his old loan was 
still showing. In Everydays complaint response to Mr H in June 2019 it accepts it could have 
removed this from the reporting quicker. Im satisfied that Everyday ensuring its reporting to 
the credit file agencies is accurate that along with the apology and distress and 
inconvenience payment is a fair and reasonable solution to that matter. From what Ive seen 
Im not persuaded that there has been any significant detriment to Mr H due to this reporting 
issue.
Ive also considered Mr Hs complaint that Everyday has made many mistakes in dealing 
with him and said the issues would be fixed repeatedly and they werent. I can imagine this 
was frustrating. But I can also see that Everyday belatedly made an offer to Mr H regarding 
how its handled matters and I think it is a fair and reasonable offer in the round.
Mr H has chosen not to make the repayments due to Everyday for a considerable time. Mr H 
has asked this service to ask Everyday whether it would consider putting the matter on hold 
(which we did). Everyday has never agreed to this and this service made clear to Mr H that 
he should be making the repayments to the loan. This is fair because he has had the benefit 
of the money Everyday advanced to him and so should be paying it back as he agreed. If Mr 
H feels the legal advice he was given was incorrect (to not pay) he should take up that 
matter with his legal advisers.
Mr Hs decision to not pay has led Everyday to chase him and his guarantor for the 
repayments. I think this is fair. I appreciate Mr H feels that Everyday has done things wrong. 
And Everyday has belatedly accepted that it has made mistakes that need sorting. But just 
because Everyday has made mistakes doesnt take away from the fact that Mr H and 
Everyday made an agreement in which Everyday advanced him money and he agreed to 
repay it on a regular basis. Everyday made the advance but for a considerable time Mr H 
has repeatedly chosen not to pay when asked to do so. So I think any adverse credit 
reporting regarding Mr Hs non-payment of this loan can remain as long as it is accurate and 
fairly reports what happened. Everyday is entitled to add any charges or interest as set out in 
the agreement and to pursue Mr H or the guarantor for repayment.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed. And his bereavement will have meant he had a lot to 
cope with at the time. But I can also see Everyday stopped chasing Mr H directly when 
asked to around the time of the bereavement. But the agreement made did have a guarantor 
included as a party and I see nothing unfair about Everyday chasing the guarantor for the 
sum owed. I think Mr H should talk to Everyday and agree a way forward.
Putting things right
Accordingly I uphold the complaint as I think Everydays original position was insufficient. On 
balance Everydays new and improved settlement suggestion (after this service got involved) 
of reworking the loan to fortnightly repayments and paying Mr H £250 for distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Mr H is entitled to not accept this decision if he doesnt wish to. But whichever course Mr H 
chooses it is fair for Everyday to be repaid by Mr H the money he owes it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday to amend the 
loan repayments to fortnightly and to pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused once it is notified of Mr Hs acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman