DRN-4146024
The complaint
Mrs P says that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial
Services(GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (BMWFS) was of an
unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs P is represented in this complaint. For ease of reading, I will refer only to Mrs P.
What happened
On 22 June 2020, Mrs P was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement
with BMWFS. The agreement was for £11,724 over five years; with 60 monthly repayments
of £192. At the time the car was more than three years old and had done around 26,000
miles. She said she took delivery of the car on 29 June 2020.
Mrs P said that on 28 July 2020 she was left stranded at the side of the road because the
cars clutch pedal was stuck down. She took it to the garage suggested by the warranty
provider. They told her this was a reoccurring fault and had been the subject of a
manufacturer recall.
Mrs P complained about this issue to BMWFS by telephone on 18 August 2020. She said
they told her they werent responsible, so she sent them a letter of complaint on 19 August
2020. In this letter she told BMWFS she wanted to unwind the agreement and return the
car.
She said that in September 2020 the retailer arranged for the car to be repaired and
refunded to her the cost of the diagnostic report shed obtained. She said that BMWFS wrote
to her in October 2020 refusing her request to return the vehicle as they said shes asked for
the repair.
Mrs P said that the car then failed its MOT in March 2021. This was due to excessive
movement in the steering column. She said she was told by the garage that the car had
failed the MOT in March 2020 for the same issue, and then passed the MOT later the same
day. She said the garage told her that no work had previously been done to the steering
column, so she felt that the MOT wasnt reliable.
She complained to the retailer about what she considered to be a fraudulent MOT. She also
complained that they had mis-sold the car to her as she said the MOT failure demonstrated
that the retailer couldnt have carried out the 300 point safety check they said was done on
all cars they sold.
She said the retailer agreed to refund her for the repair to the steering column.
Mrs P said that in October 2022 there was a problem with the clutch and master cylinder.
She said that she complained about this to BMWFS and asked again to return the car and
unwind the agreement. She said they insisted that she obtain a diagnostic report from a
main dealer.
She said that she obtained a diagnostic report and submitted this to BMWFS on 10 October
2022. She said that they replied on 30 November 2022, not upholding her complaint, and not
allowing her to reject the car because she hadnt told them about the fault soon enough.
BMWFS said that Mrs P had contacted them more than two years after shed entered into
the agreement. They didnt uphold her complaint as they said Mrs P had provided no
evidence to confirm that the faults were present or developing within the first six months of
the agreement.
Mrs P wasnt happy with BMWFSs response, so she brought her complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied the car BMWFS provided to Mrs P was of satisfactory quality.
She acknowledged that the car had faults, but found the faults were what you would expect 
to see across the lifetime of a vehicle.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator.
She said the car was sold to her without a valid MOT, and she has a provided a witness
statement from the engineer who removed and inspected the steering column. She said the
car developed a fault with the master cylinder (not the clutch), and was diagnosed as
needing a new "master cylinder and pipework". She also said that the car was sold with a
90-day warranty and the retailer said they were going to do the work, but no parts were ever
replaced. She said the retailer had admitted this in a response to a data subject access
request.
Mrs P said that the same fault had returned so it couldnt be considered to be "wear and
tear". She asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Because Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make
a final decision. I sent Mrs P and BMWFS a provisional decision on 12 May 2023. In this 
decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs P was supplied with a car under a hire
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were
able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMWFS
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would
consider, given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this,
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale.
Mrs P raised her complaint with this service after the clutch failed in October 2022, and
BMWFS didnt allow her to reject the car.
The clutch initially failed in July 2020. Mrs P said that she wasnt given the opportunity to
reject the car at that time.
Theres no evidence that Mrs P contacted BMWFS about the faulty clutch within 30 days of
getting the car. Ive reviewed the system notes from BMWFS and can see that she contacted
them on 18 August 2020  more than 30 days after she acquired the car. So, Im satisfied
this means she didnt exercise the short term right to reject under the CRA.This means under the CRA, Mrs P had the right to require BMWFS to repair the fault. As this
was done at no cost, and fixed the fault, Mrs Ps rights were met. So Im satisfied that
BMWFS didnt need to do anything else at that time.
Mrs P is unhappy that BMWFS arent able to supply a copy of the telephone call she made
in August 2020. Shes raised this issue more than two years later. I dont think its unusual
that BMWFS dont have the call recordings for this specific case given the time period. And
in any case, I dont think listening to the call would change my outcome. I say that because
Im satisfied that she was given a fair remedy: the repair of the clutch as Ive explained
above.
Mrs P said the clutch failed again in October 2022. And shes supplied an invoice from a
main dealer garage that says the clutch pedal is sticking to the floor, and the car requires a
master cylinder & full electronic bleed. The invoice doesnt describe the reason for this
failure. The issue I have to consider is where or not the latest fault is linked to the repair in
September 2020.
And I think it is. I also think its unreasonable, without any obvious reason, to think that the
clutch, particularly the master cylinder component, would fail just two years, and 13,399
miles after replacement.
Ive noted that this car was subject to a vehicle recall around January 2019. This said that
the brake master cylinder could be contaminated by debris from the clutch slave cylinder
sealing. The recall involved changing the hydraulic fluid in the system and connected
components  those were the brake master cylinder (BMC), clutch master (CMC) and slave
cylinders (CSC), along with the associated piping, as the systems are connected. This was
to ensure all debris had been removed.
The invoice from August 2020 indicates that the recall had been completed prior to replacing
the CMC again  E181803130 recall confirmed completed by Vauxhall.' With such a short 
period of time between replacements, I feel it's likely there were still contaminates within the
hydraulic system, the CMC installed was faulty, or not all parts were replaced.
A CMC should last between 50-100k miles depending on the number of gear changes/clutch
usage. The lifespan is dependent on pedal use, not time. The most common reason for CMC
failure is hydraulic fluid contamination, which damages the seals in the system. If there's a
leak, the system can't hold pressure, which is why the clutch pedal wouldnt return.
Ive also considered whether or not driving style could have caused the fault. I dont think it
would have  aggressive driving, poor gear changes/operation of the clutch, or over loading
the vehicle with weight, would only affect clutch plate wear, not the hydraulics. And I havent
been shown any evidence to suggest this caused the issue.
Im satisfied that the car supplied to Mrs P wasnt of satisfactory quality as I think the issue
with the clutch was present or developing at the point of supply. Im also satisfied that the
attempted repair to this didnt resolve the issue, and so the car remains of an unsatisfactory
quality. As BMWFS has had the opportunity to repair, Mrs P has the final right to reject the
car under the CRA.
Steering column and MOT
Mrs P has provided a statement from an engineer that says that in his opinion the steering
column had not been previously replaced. The statement also said that he believed the
previous MOT pass may possibly not be legitimate.Im not able to comment on the legitimacy of the MOT. Thats for the appropriate authority
and I note that this has been referred to the DVSA.
But I am satisfied that Mrs P had been treated fairly. I say this because the necessary
repairs were done, and she was refunded the cost of those repairs.
Ive also carefully considered her complaint that the car was mis-sold to her. She said this
was because the retailer said it had carried out a 300 point check. She said it couldnt have
done so, because if it had, it would have discovered that the steering wasnt safe. Im not
going to comment on this point, as theres a lack of evidence here and this doesnt affect the
outcome Ive reached.
Putting things right
As Mrs P has the final right to reject the vehicle, BMWFS should collect the car at no cost to
her, and at a time and date suitable for her.
They should also end the agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse
information from Mrs Ps credit file about this agreement.
Mrs P said she was unable to drive the car from October 2022. The MOT history shows this
to be the case. So BMWFS should return all payments made towards the agreement from
October 2022*.
BMWFS should refund the advance payment of £200 Mrs P paid from 23 June 2020*.
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience this has caused to Mrs P. She had to
take time to obtain her own diagnostics, for repairs that she believed to have been done
previously. She was also left without a reliable car for her work and was worried that she 
could be stuck at the side of the road again with a failed clutch pedal  especially when
carrying a young child. BMWFS should pay Mrs P £300 to reflect this.
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to
the time of reimbursement. If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken
off. It should also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
Mrs P accepted my decision. She said she wanted to unwind the entire finance agreement 
and receive a full refund, or be compensated to cover the cost of repairs so she could then 
sell the car herself and settle the debt.
BMWFS responded without indicating whether or not they accepted my provisional decision. 
They informed us that Mrs P had raised a money claim through the courts. Mrs P later 
confirmed shed withdrawn the court papers.
BMWFS referred to a number of issues theyd seen in the official MOT History. They 
highlighted the advisories and an issue with the suspension arm ball joint. They suggested 
that this showed that the car had not been adequately maintained by Mrs P in the 15,585 
miles shed done since the point of sale in June 2020.
After receiving these responses I asked BMWFS if they would accept:If Mrs P wants to keep the car and submits her evidence of the repair/ quote of 
the repair, then BMWFS should refund reasonable cost of repair. Mrs P will 
resume payments from the date of the repair.
 Or if BMWFS can provide a settlement quote should Mrs P wants to sell her car 
and repay the outstanding balance.
Mrs P is still not liable to pay for missed payments from October 2022 as she was
unable to drive the car from this period.
BMWFS to remove adverse information from credit file
Award D&I as per ombudsman provisional decision
BMWFS confirmed the outstanding amount owed by Mrs P was £4,455.64. They said they 
would reduce this amount by the amounts I suggested. This included eight monthly 
payments of £192.08, plus 8% simple interest, and the £300 Id suggested for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
This left a revised amount to settle of £2,578.76.
Mrs P, via her representative, said that she couldnt afford to pay for the repairs up front. She 
asked that BMWFS pay her the full amount of redress, £1,876.90. She would then arrange 
for the car to be repaired and the full balance to be paid to BMWFS promptly. 
She also asked that BMWFS refund the hire payments she said shed paid to the 
representative on this case. She said that BMWFS told her not to drive the car while they
investigated the complaint for 8 weeks, and that they would cover the cost of a hire car. The 
representative said that they arranged for Mrs P to borrow their car every day at a cost of 
£10 a day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out 
above. 
BMWFS have provided no new information or evidence for me to consider. Theyve 
highlighted some issues that had arisen during the time Mrs P was able to use the car.  
These appear to me to be typical wear and tear issues, and not evidence of any lack of care 
by Mrs P.
So I remain satisfied that the car BMWFS supplied to Mrs P wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Thats because I think the issue with the clutch was present or developing at the point of 
supply, and the attempted repair to this didnt resolve the issue. So the car remains of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
The only issue I have to consider is what is the appropriate redress, and how that should be 
awarded.Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision Mrs P has the final right to reject the car under the CRA. 
But she would prefer to sell the car and settle the agreement from the proceeds. But the car 
would need to be repaired before she can sell it. And Mrs P has told us that she cannot 
afford to pay for the repairs up front.
BMWFS has agreed to repay the monthly payments Mrs P made for the period she was 
unable to use the car. And to pay £300 for distress and inconvenience.
I understand and accept that its likely that she doesnt have the funds available to pay for 
the cost of the repair to the clutch. And I dont think its unreasonable to ask BMWFS to pay 
for the necessary repair to a car that they supplied.
So to put things right, BMWFS should:
Refund the eight monthly payments of £192.08 Mrs P paid for the period from 
October 2022 when she was unable to drive car, plus 8% simple interest as set out in 
my provisional decision. This amounts to £1,576.90
Pay Mrs P £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused as set out in my 
provisional decision
BMWFS must also remove any adverse information from Mrs Ps credit file about this 
agreement.
BMWFS should pay the reasonable cost of repair to the clutch upon receipt of a 
legitimate quote supplied by Mrs P.
Its for Mrs P to arrange for a quote for the cost of the repair to the clutch and submit this to 
BMWFS. If she chooses to have the car repaired it is then her choice whether or not she 
keeps the car, or sells it and settles the agreement at that point.
Ive given Mrs P the option to reject the car and end the agreement with nothing further to 
pay.
She said she doesnt want to do that. That means that the agreement will continue, and 
shell be liable for payments until she settles the agreement. I think its reasonable that 
BMWFS recommence payments from 30 July 2023.
It also means the settlement figure quoted by BMWFS may be different when she is ready to 
end the agreement. So shell need to ask for a new figure at that point.
Finally, Mrs P has asked that I include the hire payments she made to the representative in 
the redress I offer. Im not including that payment. Thats because Ive already asked 
BMWFS to refund the payments she made for the period she wasnt able to drive the car. 
Those payments should cover any extra costs she incurred to keep her mobile, including the 
arrangement with the representative.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman