DRN-3897206
The complaint
Mr A complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity 
International, and hereafter referred to as Fidelity) failed in its duty of care when allowing 
him to sell his investments at a loss, instead of directing him to an independent financial 
adviser (IFA). To resolve his complaint, he wants Fidelity to put right his £1,500 loss and to 
provide him with a written letter of apology.  
What happened
Mr As investment account was set up through his IFA in January 2022.  
On 3 August 2022, Mr A received a letter from his IFA to inform him of their retirement. The 
IFA transferred him to a different firm  and that second IFA wrote to him on 6 August 2022 
regarding his Fidelity investment account. After further telephone correspondence, Mr A 
decided to speak with Fidelity directly  noting that he didnt want the second IFA to action 
the investment account on his behalf.  
On 15 August 2022, Mr A called Fidelity and asked it to surrender his investment. 
On 19 August 2022, Mr A asked Fidelity through its online portal if he could remain a direct 
customer, even though he had liquidated his funds. Fidelity replied shortly afterwards to 
explain that Mr A could operate his own investment account without an appointed IFA. It also 
provided him details of applicable fees. Later that day, Mr A instructed Fidelity to close his 
account. 
On 22 August 2022, Mr A called Fidelity again. He said he felt that Fidelity ought to be held 
accountable for the issues he had with his IFA that had caused him to sell his investments.
Mr A then complained in writing in a letter dated 24 August 2022. He told Fidelity that despite 
the issues he had experienced with the change of IFA (which he explained), his investment 
account was held with Fidelity, so it must be liable for his complaint.  
Mr A reaffirmed that he was complaining because he felt forced to sell his investments, when 
Fidelity ought to have otherwise offered care for his circumstances. He said he felt bullied 
and irrelevant. He said Fidelity should compensate his losses and offer a letter of apology.  
On 1 September 2022, Fidelity rejected Mr As complaint. It said it was sorry to learn of the 
confusion Mr A had been caused following the retirement of his IFA. However, it said that 
advisers who use its platform were separate entities from Fidelity  and advice from external 
IFAs (or lack of advice) was not its responsibility. Finally, Fidelity also said that in the call of 
15 August 2022, Mr A hadnt mentioned the change of IFA.
Mr A then referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators contacted Mr A to 
discuss his complaint. Thereafter, Mr A also made a complaint about service failings by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. He felt that our investigator had behaved unprofessionally in 
calling him about the complaint, which led to him needing to take a day off from work.  
An ombudsman manager from this service reviewed the service Mr A had received, both 
from our investigator and overall. That separate matter was concluded, with Mr A accepting 
the proposed outcome. 
Our investigator then explained that she did not think the complaint ought to succeed. She 
said Fidelity had no involvement in deciding who Mr As IFA was, or the actions taken by 
either adviser. In her view, Fidelity had acted upon Mr As requests reasonably and promptly. 
If Mr A wished to, he could complain to either of the IFAs directly.  
Mr A agreed that complaints ought to be made against both IFAs and asked our investigator 
to help him with this. He also said he wanted the Fidelity complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He did not make any further specific submissions. 
Fidelity had no other comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their considerable patience whilst this matter has awaited referral for 
an ombudsmans review.
For completeness, my decision will not review any aspect of the service concerns Mr A has 
raised about our investigator; those were addressed by our ombudsman manager in her 
correspondence from December 2022.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. My remit is to make 
findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances and 
this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my reasons for my findings on 
what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint, based on the evidence before me. 
Having reviewed everything, I cannot uphold this complaint because I do not believe Fidelity 
to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in operating Mr As investment account.  
I have carefully reviewed the terms and conditions of the account  and it explains how the 
account is (ordinarily) operated by an appointed adviser. And it goes on to explain how if 
you have an adviser they are responsible for the suitability of any investment advice they 
give you. The reason for this is because Fidelity acts in a purely administrative or execution 
only capacity, with the usual course of action being that it takes instructions from Mr As 
nominated adviser. 
Fidelity didnt have any connection with either Mr As original appointed IFA, or the one he 
was subsequently transferred to. It also was not made aware that the adviser had changed 
until after Mr A made the direct request to surrender his investments. 
The policy terms allow Mr A to close the investment account at any time - so Fidelity was not 
unfair or incorrect to act on his instruction. I appreciate that Mr A feels upset and frustrated 
that the investment suffered a loss overall; however, for the reasons Ive explained, Fidelity 
did not have any input into Mr As decision to close his account. Contrastingly, it informed 
him on 19 August 2022 how the investment account could remain open if Mr A had wanted 
to retain it.  
I cannot agree that Fidelity has done anything wrong in how it has responded to Mr A, its 
operation of the account or it having actioned his request to surrender his investments. I therefore do not agree it has failed in any duty of care, nor do I believe it ought to make good 
any losses Mr A has suffered due to market fluctuations with the underlying holdings.  
I understand Mr A has now pursued separate complaints about both IFAs and I leave that 
matter for him to pursue with this service separately. 
My final decision
I know my final decision will be disappointing for Mr A. But for the reasons set out above, I 
do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman