DRN-1575177
The complaint
Ms K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Ms K took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ks case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint for the following reasons.
Ms K had the mortgage for several years before taking the PPI with a further advance. At 
that time, she completed a separate application form specifically for the PPI. So, I think 
Lloyds made Ms K aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it. She says the option of declining the PPI wasnt made clear to her. But given the 
evidence available from the time, I dont think it would be reasonable of me to uphold the 
complaint based solely on her recollection of something that happened so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms K. She was entitled to some sick and redundancy pay 
through her work, and she had some savings and share options. But the PPI wouldve 
covered her mortgage payments for up to 12 months if shed been unable to work. That 
wouldve left her pay and savings available for other things  or to use if she was unable to 
return to work within 12 months. So, the PPI seems to have been right for her based on what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Its possible that Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if 
it had, I think Ms K would still have bought it. Given its cost and benefits, it doesnt appear to 
have been too expensive or poor value. And it appears that Ms K wanted the policy  given 
she completed an application for it. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Ms K doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share dont apply 
in this case.Ive taken into account Ms Ks comments, including what shes said about having death in 
service cover. But these points dont change my conclusion. Death in service cover wouldnt 
have helped if shed been off sick or made redundant, which are the situations the PPI 
covered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman