DRN-3836342
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC misinformed him that his debit card was cancelled. 
This caused him to become stranded and suffer a financial loss.
What happened
On a late evening in May 2022, Mr H was around 75 miles from his home and his car was 
running very low on petrol. So, he stopped at a service station and attempted to use the pay 
at the pump facility using his Lloyds debit card. This was the only method of payment he and 
his partner had on them.
When he tried to fill up with petrol using the pay at pump facility, the machine wouldnt 
accept his card and he called Lloyds for assistance. 
Lloyds informed him that his card was blocked and that it wasnt possible to use it. They said 
that his card may have been compromised and they would need to cancel it. Mr H explained 
that this would leave him and his partner, who had health issues, stranded. 
However, Lloyds said they couldnt help. Mr H and his partner had to spend the night in his 
car and then travel home by train the following day, risking a fine. This experience caused 
Mr H significant distress and inconvenience. Mr H says this included financial loss as he 
couldnt get to work the next day and this meant he had to cancel paying customers and lose 
earnings.
Mr H later discovered that his card had only been blocked from paying at a pump and he 
could have filled up by paying at a kiosk. Also, he could have used his card for other 
essential purchases.
Mr H complained to Lloyds. Lloyds accepted they gave incorrect information but said they 
had less than a year earlier advised Mr H that he couldnt use his card for pay at pump 
petrol. So, Lloyds apologised and paid Mr H £60 compensation. 
Mr H feels this is inadequate for the significant distress and inconvenience caused so he 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, and as he remains dissatisfied this case has 
been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate Mr 
H feels strongly that Lloyds let him down and will be disappointed by my decision not to 
award further compensation.
Its not in dispute that Lloyds gave Mr H incorrect information. However, regarding the 
payment of further compensation Lloyds said:
You asked us to cover your loss of earnings and money you owed to your friend. However, 
were not able to refund these to you as the card declined due to the account type that you 
have, and you were previously advised of this in a complaint you raised with us in October 
2021.
So, I first considered whether Mr H should or ought to have been aware that his Lloyds basic 
account didnt work at pay at pump facilities. I found the October 2021 call tape to be 
incomplete and the representative wasnt aware that Mr Hs pay at pump problem was 
because his card was incompatible. Also, I couldnt see any system notes on file. So, 
although I understand Lloyds reasoning here, that Mr Hs complaint about his inability to pay 
at a pump in October 2021 wouldve resulted in him being advised, I found there was 
insufficient information to confirm this assertion. 
However, having listened to the October 2021 call, where Mr H experienced the same pay at 
pump authorisation issue and was advised to pay at a kiosk, I did find it surprising that he 
didnt opt to purchase petrol at a kiosk. In addition, enquiries indicate the pay at kiosk facility 
was open, yet Mr H chose to use the pay at pump facility. Also, that he didnt suspect there 
was an issue with his card. 
But Mr H says that the kiosk wasnt open. Also, a Lloyds representative told him his card 
was being cancelled for an entirely different reason. And, if the kiosk was temporarily closed, 
the incorrect information prevented him from walking to a nearby garage to purchase petrol.
So, in summary, the distress and inconvenience experienced here couldve been avoided if 
either Lloyds had given the correct information or if Mr H had attempted to pay for petrol at a 
kiosk at some point in his journey.
As Mr H and his partner relied solely on his Lloyds debit card, I checked the file to see if Mr 
H had made any enquires with Lloyds about his ability to use his debit card for petrol 
purchases. And, I couldnt see that he had. So, whilst I empathise with Mr Hs distressing 
experience and the subsequent inconvenience, when considering his previous experience 
and the risks of not making it home, I think it would be reasonable to have expected him to 
have either checked with Lloyds before setting off or to have bought petrol earlier using a 
kiosk as opposed to paying at the pump. Also, to have other payment methods as a 
contingency when deciding to travel a long distance and return late in the evening with a low 
supply of petrol.
So, when considering whether a greater amount of compensation is appropriate in this case, 
I found there are questions outstanding about whether the kiosk was open and why Mr H 
chose to pay at a pump. And, I cant see Mr H took sufficient steps to mitigate his losses.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, taking all of the above into consideration, I 
dont feel it would be fair or reasonable to ask Lloyds to increase their compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paul DouglasOmbudsman