DRN-2028378
 
The complaint
Mr O complains about his mortgage with Barclays Bank Plc. He says it stopped him making 
payments, and caused him significant upset during a difficult time 
What happened
Mr O has had a mortgage with Barclays for some years. This complaint is about what 
happened in late 2019 and early 2020.
Mr O was in arrears on both his mortgage and the associated mortgage current account. In 
December 2019 he called Barclays to make a payment.
Mr O wasnt happy about how the phone call went. He said the member of staff he spoke to 
wouldnt take payment from him  he thinks because he had another outstanding complaint.
Mr O complained. Barclays sent him a final response apologising that he hadnt been able to 
make a payment and offered £75 compensation. Mr O wasnt happy with that and 
complained to us. He didnt think it was fair interest continued to be added when hed not 
been allowed to make a payment.
We asked Barclays for a copy of the call recording and other evidence. Barclays then 
listened to the call recording again. It said that what it had said in the final response was 
wrong. Mr O hadnt been prevented from making a payment. He had called to offer to pay 
£30,000 towards the outstanding balance on his mortgage current account  and in return 
for doing so he wanted it to write off the rest of the balance (about £3,500). When Barclays 
didnt agree to do that, Mr O got upset and the call was ended. But he hadnt tried to make a 
payment, or been prevented from doing so. 
Mr O has also said he had a similar problem on 15 January 2020. He called the bank 
following its response to his complaint. He said the response didnt cover all the points of his 
complaint, including that he didnt expect to be charged interest. 
Barclays didnt uphold his complaint about that call. But it offered him another £75 for a 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had treated Mr O unfairly. So he asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr O had with Barclays in December. At this time he was over 
£20,000 in arrears on his main mortgage and his mortgage current account was over the 
limit. He said he had now received the proceeds of sale from his late parents property and 
could pay everything off. He said he needed help with the interest. He wanted to pay 
£30,000 if Barclays wrote off the remaining balance on the MCA. Barclays said it wouldnt be 
able to do that. Mr O then became upset and swore at the adviser, who terminated the call.
I dont agree that Barclays prevented Mr O making a payment. He offered to pay a lump sum 
to the MCA  but only if Barclays agreed to write off the rest. When Barclays said it wouldnt 
write off any of the balance, Mr O said he would leave the courts to sort it out. But Barclays 
made clear Mr O could pay any part of what he owed. 
Its unfortunate that the final response Barclays sent Mr O was wrong. But I dont agree that 
he was stopped from making a payment.
Another ombudsman has already said that Barclays has acted fairly in how it has treated 
Mr O during his financial difficulties over the past few years. Im very sorry to hear about 
everything hes been through over that time. Im sure things have been very difficult for him. 
But Mr O does owe Barclays both the balance on his mortgage, and the balance on his 
mortgage current account. Barclays isnt responsible for his situation, and weve already 
found that its treated him fairly. I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Barclays to write 
off some or all of the balance. 
Mr O also spoke to the manager of his local branch, in late December. He wanted help 
making payments to his mortgage from his bank account with another firm. The branch 
manager explained that Mr O could make a payment over the counter, such as by cheque. 
Or he could make a bank transfer from his online account with the other bank. But Barclays 
couldnt do that for him, because it couldnt access his account with the other bank. 
Ive also listened to the call of 15 January. Mr O was upset from the start of the call, and 
made clear that he would only make payment in his local branch. And he insisted that 
Barclays mustnt charge him interest since the December call because he hadnt been able 
to make payment. Mr O then became very upset, and the call ended.
Having listened to the calls, and looked at all the other evidence, I dont think that Barclays 
has done anything wrong. I recognise Mr O has had a difficult time, and is very upset about 
how he thinks Barclays has treated him. But it didnt at any time stop him from making a 
payment. It wouldnt agree to what he wanted, but thats not the same thing. Its fair that Mr 
O is charged interest on his debt while it remains outstanding. And  given the previous 
ombudsman said it had treated him fairly during his financial difficulties  I dont think it 
should be expected to write off part of the debt either. Its offered a total of £150 
compensation and I think thats fair.
Im pleased to hear that Mr O has now been able to pay a substantial amount off his 
mortgage, and I hope that hes able to get things back on track moving forwards. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman