DRN-3513050
The complaint
Mr P, on behalf of the estate of the late Ms P, complains that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) was irresponsible in opening a credit card account with a balance limit of 
£3,800.
What happened
Mr P on behalf of the Estate of Ms P says Santander were wrong to provide credit to Ms P 
as it wasnt affordable for her.
Santander didnt agree. They said Ms P had told them she was employed and was earning 
£31,392 per year. They also carried out a credit search and the results showed there was a 
single credit card with a balance of £5,710 and that Ms P was managing her credit well. 
They didnt think there was anything to suggest the credit they provided would be 
unaffordable.
Our investigator thought Santander should have dug deeper because Ms P had quite a bit of 
unsecured debt and the credit being provided by Santander was not insignificant. He thought 
Santander shouldve looked into Ms Ps income and expenditure in more detail. He thought 
there was evidence that Ms P was working and when he reviewed her bank statements he 
wasnt persuaded there was evidence of financial stress. He therefore didnt think it 
unreasonable for Santander to have approved the credit.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator. He stressed that Ms P hadnt been working at that point 
and he explained there were other live credit commitments at the time. He asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think the checks Santander completed when Ms P applied for the credit card were not 
proportionate. I say that because there was already evidence of credit card debt and this 
further credit wasnt insignificant. Given the ratio of debt to income I think it would have been 
proportionate for Santander to have gathered further information about Ms Ps expenditure.
I think they had sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Ms P was benefitting from an income 
at the time. Thats because theyd been provided with wage slips from Ms P as part of a 
mortgage application she was making with them. Mr P says that Ms P had been made 
redundant by this time and wasnt working but, as Santander had bank statements to the 
contrary, I dont think it would be fair to suggest they needed to look any deeper. There 
would have been no concerns about Ms Ps income.
I cant be sure exactly what Santander would have found out if it had asked about Ms Ps 
expenditure. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Ms Ps bank statements as to what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements provided by Mr P and leading up to the lending decision. 
They show expenditure of about £500 and given Ms Ps income of about £1,800 they 
suggest Ms P had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the credit being provided.
Im not therefore persuaded that Santander were irresponsible when approving the credit 
application.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman