DRN-3446254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HCC International Insurance Company Plc (HCC) has unfairly 
declined a claim for damage to underground pipes under their residential let policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs B took out their HCC policy in October 2020. They sought to make a 
claim for damage to their underground pipework following the discovery of damp in 
one of the propertys rooms. 
A plumbing and drainage company were appointed to review the damage and carry 
out investigations. This concluded the drain had been displaced and attributed this to 
vermin. HCC said this cause was excluded under the policy and declined the claim.
Following some back and forth, Mr and Mrs B provided further evidence from a 
separate plumbing company. It suggested the damage couldnt have been caused by 
rats, and instead the most likely cause was the use of a hammer plate during the 
installation of the patio which may have caused the pipework to drop.
The patio was installed in May 2018. HCC said the damage from the installation 
wouldve therefore happened prior to the policys inception. As the insurance only 
covered events which happened during the policy period, not just when they were 
discovered, it declined the claim and referred Mr and Mrs B to their previous insurer. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, saying this wasnt fair as the issue had arisen during the life 
of the policy. And they brought their complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and considered the specific claim 
regarding accidental damage to the pipework. She said HCC had fairly declined the 
claim based on the available evidence suggesting the damage was either caused by 
vermin, or was pre-existing, both of which wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They explained they sought legal advice and were informed 
HCC had total liability for the claim as simply the leak occurred after they were on 
risk. And they asked for the matter to be looked at again. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This complaint specifically concerns the claim for accidental damage to Mr and Mrs 
Bs pipework and not any potential related damage.
The initial expert evidence provided by Mr and Mrs B outlined the likely cause of the 
drain displacement was due to the presence of rats. The policy says it does not 
cover direct or indirect loss or damage to any property caused by, contributed to or 
arising fromvermin. So, its clear to me that HCC had fairly declined this claim 
initially based on the available evidence it had been provided.
Mr and Mrs Bs second opinion from another plumbing company attributed the 
damage to the installation of the patio. As a result, it follows that if the installation was 
the cause, the damage must have taken place at the time of the installation. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy operates on a claims occurring basis. This means it covers 
events which happen while the policy is in force. This is different to claims made 
policies that provide cover for claims made during the term of the policy.
As the damage in this case happened several years prior to the HCC policys 
inception, Im satisfied it has fairly declined the claim as the damage occurred prior to 
the insurance being in place. Mr and Mrs B have been clear they only became aware 
of the damage since HCC became their insurer  but this awareness doesnt change 
anything in this instance for the reasons Ive given. And I think HCCs advice for them 
to contact their previous insurer was a sensible suggestion.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman