DRN-3004783
The complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of the estate of Mrs W, her mother, about the overall service and 
charges applied by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc, referred to as the 
business, in relation to: 
The Fund Administration Bond (FAB), and 
Two Flexible Protection Policies (FPPs). 
What happened
In January 2017, Mrs W sadly passed away, and Mrs M was named as the executrix. In due 
course Mrs M looked through her mothers finances and became concerned about the 
performance of the FAB, an unaccounted for withdrawal and why the premiums into the 
FPPs had been stopped. 
It seems that in or around May 2000, Mrs W and her husband had a financial review with the 
business. I note Mrs M says that theyd wished to place some money in trust for Inheritance 
Tax (IHT) purposes. 
Between 2000 and 2003, units were added to the FAB which Mrs M says was done to mask 
its poor performance, and subsequently, the business  without an explanation  stopped 
paying premiums on the FFPs, despite taking a final payment of £3,750, resulting in Mrs 
Ws estate being paid a much smaller amount than shed paid in.   
Mrs M says that despite what the business says, theres no evidence that the 
recommendations were suitable, and in view of their performance and the way they were 
dealt with, theyve achieved nothing but loss. In other words, if her mother was intent on 
looking after and increasing her assets the business has failed her. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
The recommendation to invest in the FAB was suitable. Mrs W wanted to be able to 
select external funds with her bond and the FAB allowed her to do this. 
Theres nothing to suggest that the FAB was to be held in joint names, even though 
the proceeds came from a jointly held Unit Trust and Investment Bond.  
The suitability letter of 25 June 2000 confirms that the FAB incorporated some of Mrs 
Ws husbands portfolio, and that to establish equilibrium, some of Mrs Ws capital 
wouldve been used to establish a gift of capital under Trust for her husbands 
beneficiaries.
An Investment Bond wasnt? recommended to Mrs W, because it wasnt deemed 
suitable and in line with her wish to invest in funds outside of those offered by the 
business. 
The total contribution in the FAB was £169,200 and the total withdrawals were 
£459,773, demonstrating good growth over this period. 
The FPPs, also recommended in 2000, were to provide protection in addition to the 
growth already made. No withdrawals were made. 
Unfortunately, given the passage of time, the documentation is incomplete, and it 
cant comment any further on why the payments were stopped. 
Its possible that Mrs W and her husband had planned to take out two separate FFPs 
but her husband couldnt secure terms and so both plans were taken out in her name 
instead. 
In relation to the transfer of funds, or the deduction of £11,780, it has no further 
information available. 
Whilst it understands Mrs Ms wish for answers, its primary duty was towards Mrs W 
and her husband. Recommendations were made that met their disclosed 
requirements, and they were offered every opportunity to make an informed decision.  
It offered £250 compensation for the time taken to deal with this complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, hes unable to say that the 
business has done anything wrong. 
Businesses arent generally required to retain information for more than six years, 
therefore the business hasnt done anything wrong by not being able to provide more 
information in response to the complaint and queries raised by Mrs M.  
Mrs W was recommended the FPP when she was 68 years of age and had previous 
investments. Mrs W wanted more protection, and the FPP was recommended for that 
and protection against any IHT liability on her estate. Based on this, he cant say the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
Due to the passage of time, its no surprise the business is unable to provide any 
further information on the FFPs aside from what it said in its letter of 18 March 2018 
- the business maintains that issues raised by Mrs M may have been due to 
underwriting issues. In any case, Mrs W didnt raise any issues about taking on and 
continuing to pay for her husbands FPP. 
According to the business, between 2000 and 2002, three annual payments of 
£3,750 were made by Mrs W towards each FPP, making a total of £22,500 (over six 
payments) before the payments were stopped.  
On the face of the available evidence, it seems that the FAB was taken out only for 
Mrs W. Despite what Mrs M says, theres no evidence that it was taken out on a joint 
basis. Mrs Ws husband was only mentioned as a life assured, and not because he 
was a joint holder.
On the face of the evidence, it would suggest that Mrs W requested a financial review 
focused on Unit Trusts. Hes seen nothing to suggest that the FAB, between 2000 
and 2012, was mismanaged. That said, poor performance isnt something that hes 
able to consider in isolation. 
Documentation suggests that after the Unit Trusts were relocated/added to the FAB, 
Mrs W intended for a third-party manager to manage the FAB entirely. This suggests 
that the business didnt have a say in the management during this time.
Hes not seen anything about the deduction of £11,780 and it isnt clear what it 
relates to. However, the business mentioned that Mrs Ws husband didnt respond to 
a letter dated 2002, regarding some shares, which may have been removed. But hes 
unable to find a correlation between the two. 
Overall, hes satisfied that the business acted in line with Mrs Ws instructions. 
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators conclusion, and made the following key points:
She has paperwork that the business refused to acknowledge. The six years the 
investigator refers to must be after the fund is closed or when an investor is no longer 
a customer. Only the FAB was closed in 2012, and Mrs Ws FFP paid out in 2017. 
Essentially, the business failed to carry out its recommendations as nothing was 
placed in trust.
Mrs W was 68 years of age and was at end of life for a type 1 diabetic. How was 
she approved for a life policy? In any case the FPPs werent placed in trust and 
werent allowed to pay out £54,000, which begs the question why they were stopped. 
They werent paid up either and continued to lose money. Mrs Ws husbands FPP 
only passed to her after his death. 
The business had agreed that it wouldnt destroy any paperwork, so shouldve still 
had paperwork available when she started making enquiries in 2017 about the FAB. 
Shes aware that in 2003/4 there was a challenge from Mrs Ws husbands family (by 
his two sons) about the ownership of the polices and therefore the documentation 
shouldve still been available. Incidentally, it was around this time that the premiums 
were stopped, which was clearly an undocumented error. 
She doesnt understand why Mrs W took on her husbands FPP when hed died  it 
didnt even pay out because he failed the medical. Despite the payments made, Mrs 
W only received £12,236 because the business stopped the premiums. 
The FAB shouldve been in joint names. She doesnt accept that it was only taken out 
for Mrs W. 
Mrs W wouldnt have requested a review at a time her husband was unwell. The 
units (or income bearing funds as she likes to call them) were transferred just days 
before Mrs Ws husband passed away. She was told by the adviser the FAB needed 
a cash injection to cover his fees.  
The FAB wouldve made the same profit even without the additional units, and it 
wouldve been clear how badly it was performing. So, overall the FAB was 
mismanaged, as evidenced by two other bonds, also with the business, which have 
performed far better over the same period. It isnt right that the business made 
money from Mrs Ws investment and she hasnt. 
Theres simply no suggestion within the available paperwork, that a third-party was 
appointed to manage the FAB. Shed like to see proof. 
In terms of the missing money, she believes theres a correlation between what the 
business says and removal of shares, as they relate to similar figures. 
The business acted in line with Mrs Ws husbands wishes and not hers. 
The investigator having considered the additional issues wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. But Mrs M still feels the business has done something wrong. She doesnt feel it 
should be able to get away with it, and we shouldnt allow this to happen. In summary, she 
said: 
The business has charged fees but hasnt provided a service. 
Neglect and fees, and lack of performance as a result of 'neglect and fees'! This is 
not what one would expect from 'any' company, let alone one like SJP. They have 
not carried out their side of their 'contract'.
The business closed two protection policies without notice or good reason. 
The business accepts that it made an error in transferring an investment in 2017 but 
has no paperwork, which it should have. There is no trace of that money either.
The business had treated her first letter as a complaint and shouldnt have, and 
consequently have ignored much of her later correspondence. 
The investments made no return, and the business was paid for doing nothing.  
Now the business has passed the buck saying that a third-party business was 
responsible  theres no proof of this. The third-party business has never contacted 
Mrs W.  
Shes asking for our help because she genuinely believes the business actions have 
caused her mother a loss.  As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs M says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business has behaved unreasonably and therefore is responsible for any losses. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs M, and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not my role to 
control financial businesses and or punish them. Im also not here to make enquires to see if 
Mrs M might have a valid complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs W. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. In the circumstances, I dont need 
to speak to Mrs M before making my decision, and I feel I have all the information I need. 
I understand that Mrs M feels the business shouldnt have treated her initial letter  making 
observations and enquiries  as a complaint, but on balance I dont think the business was 
wrong to treat her letter as a complaint. It was clear that she was unhappy about the 
business dealings with her mother. 
Its always difficult for an executor to retrospectively piece together what went on with a 
business in the past, over a period and why. Especially when theyve not been privy to 
discussions between the investors, and between the investors and the business. It can be 
made even more difficult when theres limited information, and whats available doesnt make 
sense or satisfy the executor. But, whilst I appreciate what Mrs M says about the available 
information, its all we have. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs M says, I cant 
safely say that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, I dont have the 
evidence to enable me to conclude, on a balance of probabilities, that the business behaved 
unreasonably, and I cant say that the business didnt act in line with Mrs Ws wishes. 
Im mindful that despite what Mrs M says, she wasnt privy to those discussions at the time. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs W wanted/needed her there or was incapable of 
making her own decisions. 
So, whilst its not clear why Mrs W took on her husbands FPP, or why the premiums 
stopped, on balance I cant say these werent as a result of Mrs Ms own decisions. Im 
mindful that she wanted additional protection, and her husband may have had underwriting issues. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she specifically wanted the FPPs in trust, and that 
the business failed to do this. 
I appreciate what Mrs M says about the premiums being stopped, around the same time as 
the legal challenge from Mrs Ws husbands family. But despite what Mrs M says, Im unable 
to safely say that it wasnt just a coincidence or that Mrs W didnt decide to stop paying in 
case of any future (successful) challenge. Im mindful that there was another challenge in 
2017 after Mrs W died. I also note that although Mrs M says the business stopped contact, it 
continued to send her statements. If Mrs W wanted clarification or further advice, she was 
free to contact the business but didnt until 2012. 
Whilst there isnt any paperwork to substantiate any theory, Im mindful that possibly three 
payments were made, not including the final payment  in total six payments of £3,750 for 
both FPPs amounting to over £22,000. Im aware Mrs M says the plans werent paid up. Its 
possible that Mrs W thought shed paid enough into the plans and would let them continue 
on a decreasing basis without paying in further premiums. 
Businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, especially in relation to 
investments that are no longer active. In the circumstances, Im unable to blame the 
business for not being able to provide more information about products that were 
recommended over 20 year ago and ceased to exist between five and eight years ago.  
I appreciate what Mrs M says about the fees, but the fees and charges  agreed at the 
outset between the business and Mrs Ms mother  werent contingent on the investment 
doing well. The fees were due for the advice and service provided, come what may, 
regardless of how the fund performed.  
 
On balance Im satisfied that the fees and charges were likely to have been made clear to 
Mrs W at the outset and agreed to by her. Whilst Mrs M might think the fees were too high, 
Im mindful that a business in the exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, is entitled 
to set its own fees.  
In my opinion, Mrs W, following her financial review  regardless of whether it was instigated 
by her and her husband or the business  was willing to take a risk with her money in order 
to make a return, and therefore was likely to have been aware that her investments could go 
up as well as down. The fact Mrs Ms investments, also with the business, did well over the 
same period, but her mothers didnt, isnt evidence of mismanagement or negligence by the 
business. On the contrary it would suggest it was down to the financial markets and funds 
invested in and Im mindful that various deductions were also made.    
  
So, whilst I appreciate Mrs Ws disappointment with the returns on her mothers investments, 
this isnt generally an issue that our service would consider in isolation because, its 
dependent on a number of factors outside the business control. In other words, the 
investment return isnt something that a business has control over or can predict. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Mrs W was guaranteed returns on her FAB.  
Despite what Mrs M says, Im unable to safely say that the FAB was intended to be held 
jointly by Mrs W and her husband, and if it was thats not what the business was told. I 
understand that he was a life assured and thats what may have caused some confusion. 
I note Mrs M says that Mrs Ws husband was really the one that dealt with the FAB. So, if 
that was the case, I cant blame the business for any misunderstanding Mrs M might now 
have.
Its possible that the £11,000 or so that Mrs M refers to as possibly unaccounted for, and 
the sale of the shares are related. I appreciate Mrs W says the figures are similar, but on 
balance I cant safely say that it was about the same thing. But if it was, on balance it would seem the business resorted to default action after having written to Mrs Ws husband about 
the shares and him not responding. In any event, I cant blame the business for not being 
able to provide a better explanation.  
I appreciate Mrs M will be thoroughly unhappy on behalf of the estate of Mrs W Ive reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to 
ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman