DRN-3087778
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint relates to a mortgage he has with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). He has said 
that he is being mistreated as BoS has paid service charges and rent owed under the 
mortgaged propertys shared ownership lease and added the costs to the mortgage balance. 
What happened
Mr B arranged a mortgage with BoS in 2015 on a shared ownership basis. I will refer to the 
other party to this arrangement as the landlord. 
In 2017 Mr B started to have financial difficulties. In the autumn of that year, the landlord first 
approached BoS regarding unpaid service charges and rent. BoS didnt make a payment at 
this point, but it wrote to Mr B informing him about the situation. The landlord contacted BoS 
again in December 2017 and BoS wrote to Mr B and texted him too. He responded to this 
contact and the payment was made to the landlord with his agreement. BoS wrote to Mr B 
after the payment was made and confirmed what the new contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) on the mortgage would be, after having been adjusted to reflect the higher mortgage 
balance. 
Further requests for payments from Mr Bs landlord were received, along with confirmation 
that legal action had been initiated to forfeit the lease. BoS made payments in June 2018, 
July 2019, November 2019, March 2020 and August 2020. On each occasion BoS wrote to 
Mr B before the payments were made so he could make his own arrangements or inform it 
he disputed the payments. He didnt respond to this contact. BoS also wrote to Mr B after the 
payments were made and confirmed what the new CMP would be as a result of the higher 
mortgage balance. 
In August 2020 Mr B complained to BoS about it having paid the rent and service charges on 
his property. He said this was because the landlord hadnt over the previous two years 
maintained the area of the estate in which his property was located. He asked that BoS 
refund to his mortgage the money paid to the landlord. He asked why BoS hadnt asked him 
about the payments before they were made. He said that he hadnt received the letters 
about the payments as he didnt live at the mortgaged address. He questioned why BoS 
didnt use a different form of notification. 
During the complaint discussion it was established that Mr B no longer lived at the 
mortgaged address, but hadnt told BoS that was the case or provided an alternative 
correspondence address. In addition, he had changed his mobile telephone number and 
hadnt informed BoS of that either, which may have meant he hadnt received the text 
messages it had sent him about his account. Mr B didnt believe BoS and accused it of lying. 
BoS responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It acknowledged that Mr B had told it 
since making his complaint that he was in dispute with the landlord.  BoS explained that on 
various occasions the landlord had contacted it having started legal action to forfeit the lease 
on the property if rent and service charge arrears werent paid. On each occasion it had 
informed Mr R of the request and gave him the opportunity to dispute the payments being 
made, but he hadnt done so on any occasion. It also explained that due to the threat to its 
security, it didnt need Mr Bs permission to make the payments and add them to the 
mortgage balance. BoS was satisfied that it was right to do so.
One of our investigators confirmed that we would only be looking at the complaint Mr B had 
referred to us in October 2020 and those raised later, although these would be looked at 
under a separate complaint reference. She then went on to consider the merits of the 
complaint about the payments being made to the landlord. The investigator explained that if 
such payments werent paid, the lease on the property could be jeopardised. This would in 
turn jeopardise BoS security for the money Mr B owed it, so it wasnt unreasonable for it to 
have made the payments it did.  
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said he thought the investigators response 
was lame and questioned that while she had gone on about BoS protecting its security, 
what about his mental health and the way he had been treated? He accused the investigator 
of not being impartial and discriminating against him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Mr Bs concerns about our handling of the complaint were referred to a manager and 
responded to. As such, this decision will not consider or comment on those issues.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, it appears Mr B stopped making rent and service payments to the first landlord 
in 2017. This continued throughout 2018 and 2019 after the property was transferred to a 
new landlord. For ease in this decision, I will refer to both as the landlord, as which one of 
them was involved is not relevant to the discussion. 
Under the terms of the mortgage BoS is entitled to make payments if its security is 
threatened and then add those sums to the mortgage. What a threat to the security means is 
the landlord starting legal action to forfeit the lease. If such action was supported by the 
court, it would mean that Mr Bs interest in the property would be removed and the landlord 
would take possession. This would have two effects, it would mean that if BoS wanted its 
money back, it wouldnt be able to take possession of the property to sell it to facilitate this 
process. It would also mean that Mr B would lose his interest in the property and have 
nothing to show for his time paying the mortgage, but he would still owe the amount of the 
mortgage to BoS.
BoS didnt want to be placed in this position, so when the landlord informed it that it had 
started legal action to forfeit the lease, BoS took action to prevent that happening. The first 
stage of this was to write to Mr B at the mortgaged address.
I note that Mr B informed BoS that he wasnt living at the property at one point and so hadnt 
received the letters. However, he hadnt provided BoS with a different correspondence 
address and I note he also commented that hed been unable to open the property windows 
for two years and mentioned injuring himself outside the front door. As such, whether Mr B 
was living in the property or not, it appears he was accessing it during the period BoS was 
sending him letters about the landlords requests. I accept that it is possible some of the 
letters may not have been received, but they appear to have been addressed correctly and 
so I think it is more likely than not that they were delivered. Mr B agreed to one of the payments being made, but he didnt respond to any of the others. 
As such, BoS made the payments and added them to the mortgage balance, as it is allowed 
to do under the mortgage terms and conditions.
I know that Mr B wont be happy with my conclusions and I am sorry for any upset they 
cause him, but I dont consider that BoS did anything wrong in making the payments to the 
landlord and thereby allowing Mr Bs lease to remain in place and protecting its security.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
13 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman