DRN-3578334
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc loaded a fraud marker against his name using the 
Cifas database.
What happened
Mr A began to experience difficulties with his financial accounts. He made a request to Cifas 
asking what information it held on him, and on 15 January 2021 he received a response. 
In the response, Cifas informed Mr A that a Cifas marker had been recorded against his 
name by HSBC on 14 September 2017. The marker was recorded as a misuse of his 
banking facility due to fraudulent funds being paid into his account.
Mr A complained to HSBC regarding the marker. He said that he was unaware of the activity 
referred to and that his account was hacked, and his card lost at the time 
After looking into the complaint HSBC didnt uphold it. It said that Mr As account was 
reviewed and closed due to activity it had detected; it found no evidence of hacking. And 
after reviewing the marker placed against his name, it found this was recorded correctly.
Mr A remained unhappy with HSBCs decision, so he came to our service for an 
independent assessment. An Investigator looked into the evidence provided by both parties 
but felt HSBC hadnt made an error. In summary, they pointed out that the evidence didnt 
suggest that it was likely Mr As account had been hacked or compromised. They therefore 
felt that the marker was applied in line with the guidance set out by Cifas.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigators assessment. He pointed out that he was a young adult 
at the time and was nave around financial matters. He highlighted that his card, PIN and 
online banking details were kept within the same place and it was likely theyd been 
compromised. Additionally, he pointed out that he never reported his card as lost as it wasnt 
his main account and he didnt respond to contact from the bank as he didnt receive any.
As Mr A disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database controller. 
In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit sets out the 
burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards regarding this complaint are:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted. 
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member [HSBC] 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr A] to the police.
Taking into consideration my interpretation of these rules, and what I think is fair and 
reasonable, HSBC must have more than mere suspicion or concern that Mr A was a 
knowing and witting participant in the activity. And it must have evidence to support its 
position.
While evidence is limited due to passage of time, Im satisfied that HSBC has met the first 
point listed above. HSBC, back in 2017, received reports from a third-party source that 
Mr As account had been used for illegitimate purposes. This is further supported by HSBCs 
attempt to contact Mr A via two separate contact methods and receiving no response. Mr A 
says that he didnt receive either of these, but I think thats unlikely. Mr As telephone 
number was the same as the one our service has been provided as part of this complaint, as 
was his address. So, I find it unlikely he didnt receive either of these; and it adds weight to 
the argument of the account holders involvement where they arent engaging with 
communication. 
Even after his account was closed, Mr A didnt question the reasons for this or question his 
entitlement to any money that was held in the account before the illegitimate activity began. 
Ive considered Mr A submissions that he was young at the timeand this was not his main 
accountbut Im not persuaded that his age or experience with financial matters is enough 
to explain his lack of interest or engagement. 
Furthermore, Mr A has told our service that his card, PIN and online banking details were 
lost, and all of these were kept next to each other within his wallet at the time. While its 
plausible that this was the case, I dont find it likely that Mr A would have failed to report this 
fact to his bank. As Ive highlighted above, prior to the activity on his account that lead to its 
closure, there were funds within the account that Mr A likely would have wanted to access 
after losing his card and account information. He was also using the account regularly up 
until the point the activity began. So again, I dont find Mr As explanation to be persuasive.
Lastly, after the disputed amounts entered Mr As account, it was used to make an ATM 
withdrawal and a number of online transfers. According to the information still held on Mr As 
account, only two activation codes were sent to access online banking, and both of these 
were sent to the mobile number our service has held on file. One on 30 December 2016 and 
the other on 7 April 2017: just prior to the disputed activity.
While I cant be sure what actually took place at the time the transactions, the evidence 
persuades me that HSBC loaded the marker at the time having correctly adhered to Cifas 
standards. And Mr A has been unable to provide any evidence or persuasive testimony that 
proves the Cifas marker should no longer remain against his name. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman