DRN-3092454
The complaint
 Miss C is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 8 June 2018, Miss C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage. She paid a deposit of £143 and the agreement was for £8,217 over 60 
months; with 59 monthly repayments of £282.75 and a final payment of £457.75. At the time 
the car was just over four years old and had done 51,868 miles.
Miss C said that she started to experience problems with the car within a week of taking 
possession of the car  there was an intermittent engine fault that resulted in the car 
breaking down on multiple occasions. Miss C complained to Advantage in October 2019 and 
was told shed need an independent inspection to prove that any faults were present at the 
point of sale.
Miss C didnt get an independent report and complained to Advantage again in May 2021. 
Advantage arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. Miss C says that the 
engineer told her the car was a Friday afternoon car and the issues wouldve been present 
at the point of sale. However, the engineers report said there had been a breakdown of the 
ignition coil packs, which was a wear and tear issue, and the cars condition was in line with 
what theyd expect for its age and mileage. 
Miss C provided the engineer with evidence she believed showed there were problems with 
the ignition coils from before she was supplied with the car. In reply, the engineer said that 
further investigation was needed to determine if the fault was pre-existing. Because the car 
had passed several MOTs, Advantage believed the car was of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied to Miss C, and they didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss C wasnt happy with Advantages response, and she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that, from the evidence shed seen, she was satisfied there was a 
problem with the car  there has been intermittent misfiring on cylinders three and four. And, 
from the evidence shes seen, she was satisfied this issue was present when the car was 
supplied. Which made the car of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
But the investigator said this issue was fixed in May 2021, at the cost of £70 plus VAT, and 
hadnt reoccurred. And the investigator thought that, if Miss C had raised the issue with 
Advantage earlier, then the fault couldve been fixed sooner. She thought that a repair was a 
reasonable resolution, and she said that Advantage should reimburse Miss C the cost of the 
repair, plus interest. She also said that Advantage should compensate Miss C £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator, so this matter has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Advantage are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Advantage can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Miss C to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss C took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Advantage to put this 
right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 16 May 2021. At the point of 
inspection, the car had done 73,129 miles. The engineer said that on occasion, the vehicle 
would intermittently misfire  we believe this is a breakdown of one of the ignition coil 
packs. This is a common issue as, over time, the insulation within the coil packs breaks 
down and can intermittently cause a misfire  replacing the coil packs should be considered 
routine maintenance for a vehicle of this age and mileage.
Miss C has provided the following evidence of faults with the car:
Report from breakdown company dated 28 April 2018 - breakdown as a result of 
misfiring on one or more cylinders, specifically cylinder 4. This report relates to a 
breakdown just over a month before Miss C was supplied with the car.
Miss C says she had a breakdown 16 June 2018 due to a misfire on 3. I havent seen 
a report for this breakdown. Following this breakdown, Miss C says the dealership 
replaced the ignition coils.
Miss C says she had another breakdown on 2 July 2018 due to a failed clutch. I 
havent seen a report for this breakdown. Following this breakdown, Miss C says a 
new clutch was fitted.
Report from a breakdown company dated 29 July 2018 - breakdown as a result of an 
issue with the clutch hydraulic system.
Report from breakdown company dated 31 August 2018 - breakdown as a result of a 
failed battery. New battery fitted.Report from breakdown company 9 September 2018 - breakdown as a result of 
misfiring on cylinder 3. 
Garage vehicle health check dated 11 October 2018 at 55,240 miles. Says that coils 
and plugs had been replaced at another garage, but coil 3 hasnt been replaced. Also 
identified issues with recently fitted clutch and that the timing chain needs replacing.
Report from breakdown company dated 17 November 2018 - breakdown as a result 
of misfiring in cylinders 3 and 4.
Report from breakdown company dated 26 August 2019 - breakdown as a result of 
misfiring in cylinders 3 and possibly 4.
Garage vehicle health check dated 10 September 2019 at 61,522 miles. Says that a 
valve clean is required.
Report from breakdown company dated 1 May 2021 - breakdown due to misfiring in 
cylinder 3, and possibly more cylinders. Also issues detected with door locks, oil level 
and air conditioning.
Invoice for £283.00 dated 7 May 2021 at 72.935 miles. This is for a service and 
dealing with the misfire on cylinder 3 (at the specific cost of £70 plus VAT).
Invoice for £234.66 dated 17 May 2021 at 73,199 miles. This is for a replacement 
timing chain tensioner.
After reviewing Miss Cs evidence, the engineer said that electrical components such as coil 
packs can fail suddenly & without warning due to issues such as deterioration of insulation 
 we therefore do not consider this to be an issue with failed repairs. The engineer also 
recommended the vehicle would require a further inspection by a suitably qualified 
automotive engineer to determine if a faulty coil pack could be responsible for the slight fall 
off in engine performance  should these investigations reveal that there is an issue with 
the same cylinder as highlighted in the [breakdown] report then it might fairly be argued that 
the vehicle had a pre-existing condition at the point of sale.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a problem with the ignition coils 
causing a misfire, and this was present from at least a month before Miss C was supplied 
with the car. This issue was ongoing and caused multiple breakdowns. So, under the CRA, 
Im satisfied that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
The CRA allows for one chance of repair. And the car was repaired by the supplying 
dealership at some point in June or July 2018. But the vehicle health check from October 
2018 shows that the faulty coil wasnt replaced. And the evidence shows that breakdowns 
continued. So Im also satisfied that this repair failed.
Where theres been a failed repair, the CRA allows for the car to be rejected. But in this 
instance, I dont think rejection is fair. This is because Miss C was aware the repair had 
failed by no later than the breakdown on 9 September 2018. But she didnt initially raise the 
issue with Advantage until October 2019  over a year later. And when asked to supply 
evidence to Advantage, Miss C waited a further 19-months before contacting Advantage 
again. And during this period Miss C continued to use the car, driving over 20,000 miles.
Whats more, Miss C had the faulty coil repaired on 7 May 2021  around the time she 
contacted Advantage again  and there hasnt been any further misfiring issues with car. So 
I dont think that allowing a rejection would now be appropriate.
Im aware that Miss C wants a like for like replacement of the car instead. But this isnt 
something available under the CRA. So, Im satisfied that Advantage should reimburse Miss 
C the cost of the successful repair to the ignition coils.The evidence shows there were other issues with the car i.e. the clutch, battery and timing 
chain. But Ive not seen any evidence to show me that these issues were likely present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Miss C. Given this, Im satisfied its more likely than 
not that these are wear and tear items resulting from the age and mileage of the car. So I 
wont be asking Advantage to cover these costs.
Putting things right
 The investigator recommended that Advantage pay Miss C £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused. While the car couldve potentially been repaired sooner, if 
Miss C had raised the issue with Advantage in 2018, she still suffered multiple breakdowns 
as a result of the quality of the car when supplied. And shes had a lack of confidence in 
driving the car long distances as a result. Because of this, I think that the investigators 
recommendation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator also recommended that Advantage remove any adverse credit from Miss 
Cs credit file. But Advantage have confirmed theres no adverse credit relating to the 
satisfactory quality of the car  the only adverse credit relates to when Miss C missed 
payments, which is an unrelated issue. As theres no adverse credit relating to the quality of 
the car, this recommendation will not form part of my final decision.
So, Advantage should now arrange to do the following:
refund the £70 plus VAT (£84) Miss C paid on 7 May 2021, to fix the ignition coil 
issue;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Miss C made 
the payment to the date of the refund ; and
pay Miss C an additional £150 to reflect the trouble and upset shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Cs complaint. Advantage Finance Ltd must follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
Andrew Burford 
Ombudsman
