DRN-2673026
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer her pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment, a copy 
of which was sent to both parties. In brief, Mrs C had said St Pauls Marketing had cold called 
her and offered her a pension review. The investigator said she understood that St Pauls 
Marketing had sent Mrs C promotional material relating to the investment in debentures 
issued by Just Loans. Leading on from this, Mrs C opened a SIPP and the value of her 
personal pension of £54,622 was transferred to it in January 2016. A stockbroking account 
was set up. My understanding is that Mrs C took the available pension commencement lump 
sum and then just under £40,000 was transferred to that account and invested in Just Loans 
debentures. 
Mrs C, through her representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David Securities 
Limited in September 2019. It said that the advice given by St Pauls Marketing to switch 
pensions and invest in a non-standard asset that was high risk was unsuitable.
I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its 
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. However, no files 
or evidence or arguments were received. 
The investigator said that, on the evidence that had been provided, she thought it was likely 
that St Pauls Marketing had recommended the transaction to Mrs C. It had provided her with 
all the information about the debentures and the benefits of transferring her existing pension 
to the SIPP. She noted that St Pauls Marketing hadnt disputed this. 
The investigator noted that Mrs C was in her late 50s at the time that the advice was given, 
and the pension transferred was her only pension provision. She said Mrs C would have 
needed to rely on this pension in retirement, she had no other investments, was a low risk 
investor and couldnt afford any loss to the value of her funds. Taking all this into account, 
the investigator thought that investing the pension funds into the high-risk bonds wasnt in 
line with Mrs Cs objectives at the time. She said an adviser providing a recommendation in 
the best interests of their client should have recognised this. 
The investigator said that St Pauls Marketing had arranged the investment and she thought 
that COBS 10 applied (Conduct of Business Rules). She said COBS 10 required St Pauls 
Marketing to assess Mrs Cs knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate. She said Mrs C had no 
significant investment knowledge and experience and wasnt such an investor.  
The investigator also noted that the Regulators Principles required St Pauls Marketing to, 
amongst other things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them fairly, and 
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for 
any customer who was entitled to rely on its judgement. The investigator didnt think that St 
Pauls Marketing had met its obligations under the Principles; she thought if it had St Pauls 
Marketing wouldnt have recommended the investment to Mrs C as it was unsuitable.
The investigator sent her view of the complaint to both parties. Alexander David didnt 
respond. Mrs C said she accepted the investigators assessment. The investigator wrote to 
both parties on 22 February 2021 to say the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman. 
The investigator subsequently wrote to both parties again on 4 March 2021. She said she 
thought the compensation she had recommended in her assessment should be amended 
slightly given that Mrs Cs original investment had matured and shed decided to roll over her 
money and reinvest in new debentures in January 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mrs Cs original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer (technically known as a switch) and investment. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available. The investigator set out her thoughts 
on the matter in her assessment, and Alexander David hasnt disputed what she said or 
provided any further evidence or arguments. 
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset and following its input Mrs C transferred her pension to the SIPP 
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mrs Cs 
background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this 
type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
When Mrs C complained to Alexander David she said it had advised her on the suitability of 
the pension transfer and recommend that she invest in non-standard assets. The 
investigator said she didnt think the advice was suitable. The firm hasnt disputed this. In all 
the circumstances and on the balance of the limited evidence thats available, I think its 
more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise Mrs C to switch her pension and 
invest in the debentures. And given the significant risks presented by the investment, I dont 
think it was suitable for Mrs C given she has said that she wanted a low risk investment, she 
had little capacity for loss and had no investment experience. 
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mrs C, I think the evidence shows 
it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable 
security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs Cs knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered 
or demanded so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her. Mrs 
C said she had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. 
The debentures presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mrs C 
given her knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing. Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the 
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mrs C. Like the investigator, I also dont think 
the firm met its obligations under the Regulators Principles for Business, in particular that it 
didnt pay due regard to the interests of Mrs C or take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice. I think Mrs C was entitled to rely on St Pauls Marketings judgement, 
yet it failed to provide suitable advice. And in failing to ensure the investment was 
appropriate for Mrs C, I dont think St Pauls Marketing acted in Mrs Cs best interests.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mrs C to transfer and invest in the 
debentures, or if it had told her they werent suitable or appropriate for her, she wouldnt 
have transferred and invested in them. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mrs C to transfer and 
invest in a product that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mrs C has claimed
Putting things right
fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs C as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mrs 
C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Cs 
circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mrs C fairly Alexander David Limited should compare the performance of 
Mrs Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is 
a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mrs Cs pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Limited 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Cs 
pension plan it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The 
notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Cs actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. 
I think Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs C would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional            
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
12 
January 
2021The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 12 January 2021 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mrs Cs  
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should: 
Pay Mrs C £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mrs C in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment). 
Fair value 
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider plus any charges deducted on 
transfer would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mrs C has said that she wanted a low risk investment which appears to be consistent with her circumstances.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only 
prepared to take a limited risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs C into that position. It doesnt mean that Mrs 
C would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I 
consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs 
C could have obtained from investments suited to her objectives and risk attitude.
The investigator recommended that fair compensation be calculated as at 12 January 2021, 
the date that Mrs C decided to reinvest into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair 
given Mrs C had made her decision to reinvest her money having already raised concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice to invest. In the circumstances I dont think its fair 
to hold Alexander David Securities Limited responsible for any losses arising from the 
reinvestment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I order Alexander David Securities 
Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs C as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman