DRN-4333383
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) withdrew the gadget cover on 
his Tech Pack without telling him.
Mr M says that this led to him incurring an uninsured loss.
Mr M is also unhappy that when he submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to 
Barclays, it sent the information to him by post and not by email. Barclays also did this when 
Mr M requested copy bank statements to be sent to him.
What happened
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about the Tech Pack. In summary it said that it had 
sent Mr M notification of the change to the Tech Pack. Barclays apologised that its response 
to the DSAR was by post, but explained that it was unable to send the documents to Mr Ms 
Cloud It online document storage area as he was no longer a customer. 
Barclays did however uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. It acknowledged that it had given him 
wrong information about how the notification regarding the changes to the Tech Pack was 
sent to him. It also acknowledged that there were delays in contacting Mr M and also 
acknowledged that it had not sent the final response letter by secure email. Barclays offered 
Mr M £175 compensation for these aspects of his complaint.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she concluded that the letter informing 
Mr M of the change to the Tech Pack was sent according to the communication preferences 
that Mr M had selected. She also concluded that the £175 that Barclays had paid Mr M for 
the administrative and customer service issues was fair.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. He said that hed never agreed to receive 
correspondence online and had only opted to go paperless for bank statements. Mr M asked 
for the evidence that was relied upon.
As Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. The adjudicator also sent Mr M evidence that Barclays had 
provided, displaying his communication preferences and evidence that the letter informing 
him of the changes to his Tech Pack had been sent to his Cloud It.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Having considered everything, I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration when he went to claim on 
his Tech Pack  thinking that he had cover for gadgets and was subsequently informed that 
gadgets were no longer covered by the policy. However, I can only uphold this complaint if 
Barclays has done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably. But in terms of the 
changes made to the Tech Pack, I cant see that it did.
Barclays says that it had informed Mr M on 28 June 2022 that changes had been made to 
the Tech Pack. Ive had a look at the letter, and it did explain, in the bullet pointed summary 
on the first page, that gadgets are no longer covered by the Tech Pack from 
26 August 2022. Therefore, Im satisfied that the letter made it clear Mr M would no longer 
be covered for gadgets on his Tech Pack, and when that came into effect.
Barclays (eventually) confirmed that the letter was sent to Mr M online. We requested 
Barclays provide further evidence about this. Barclays provided a screenshot from its 
systems which showed when a document is sent online this means that a copy of the 
document is added to the consumers Cloud It document storage area on a customers 
online banking account. The evidence indicates that an email is sent out to the consumer to 
notify them that there is a new document to view online. 
Barclays has also provided evidence which indicates that it had the correct email address 
recorded for Mr M (although I note it is different to the one Mr M has provided our service). 
So, in the circumstances Im satisfied that the document was sent to Mr M via the online 
method and that a notification email was sent to the email address Barclays had recorded for 
Mr M at the time, to make him aware of the document.
Finally, I understand that Mr M says he never opted for correspondence to be sent to him 
online. He says hed only opted for paperless bank statements.
However, the evidence that Barclays has provided indicates that he had in fact selected to 
receive correspondence online  although that evidence states that Barclays may still send 
letters by post if it is required to do so. 
Barclays says this was the communication preference for Mr M since at least 20 February 
2021. Furthermore, Barclays says that Mr M has not been included in any paperless 
campaigns  which I understand means a campaign designed to get account holders to 
switch from paper to email or online statements. Therefore, it seems unlikely that Mr Ms 
preference had been switched to online without his input. 
Overall, when deciding what I think most likely happened, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr M, rather than Barclays, had set his communication preference to online. It therefore 
follows that I cant say that Barclays has done anything wrong or acted unfairly, by sending 
the letter informing Mr M about the changes to his Tech Pack via the online method.
During our investigation, Mr M sent us a copy of an email hed received from Barclays about 
changes itd made to the Barclays banking app  namely the removal of loyalty cards being 
able to be registered on the banking app. Mr M says this is evidence Barclays are emailing 
him and not uploading messages to the cloud. However, I disagree with Mr M. I say this 
because firstly, the update looks to be about changes made to Barclays banking app, rather 
than to a specific bank account. Secondly, Mr M says that his Barclays accounts were 
closed when he received the email. Therefore, I cant see how the email is proof that 
Barclays was not uploading documents to his Cloud It storage area  given that he no longer 
had one at that point in time.  
Finally, I understand that there were some administrative issues that Mr M was unhappy 
with. I understand this related to the response to the DSAR being posted to him, rather than 
being emailed to him. I also understand that Mr M was unhappy the final response letter had 
been posted to him.
I understand that Mr M had to arrange for someone to scan and email the DSAR documents 
to him. And I can see that Mr M contacted Barclays a number of times about this matter too, 
as he was expecting to receive the documents by email. But considering everything that has 
happened, I think that the £175 already paid by Barclays fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M experienced due to these matters. I therefore dont think Barclays 
needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman