DRN-1622813
 
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage at a meeting with Halifax in 1990. Halifaxs records show that he 
took out a PPI policy to cover his mortgage payments around the same time. The policy 
would have covered Mr C's monthly mortgage payments if hed made a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C says the PPI was added to his account without his knowledge or consent. 
Halifax no longer has a copy of Mr Cs application for the mortgage or PPI, or any 
paperwork to show how the PPI was presented to him. But I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place so long ago.
 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks 
most likely based on the information I have. I can't know what Halifax said to Mr C 
about the PPI. But without stronger evidence I cant fairly say that I think its more 
likely than not that Halifax failed to tell him the policy was optional. From what we 
know about how Halifax normally sold these policies, I think its more likely that it 
discussed PPI with Mr C and the PPI was set up because he decided to take it  but I 
can understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
 
Mr C says Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to him. But Halifax says it would have 
recommended the PPI to Mr C. And for the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed 
thats right. This is to Mr Cs advantage, as it means that Halifax had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the time.
 
Mr Cs told us hed only have been entitled to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay 
from his employer at the time. Based on what we know of policies Halifax was selling 
around the time, Im satisfied, on balance, that the policy would, as a minimum, have 
paid Mr Cs monthly mortgage payments for up to 24 months if he'd made a 
successful claim for accident or sickness, and for up to 12 months if hed made a 
successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition 
to any payments Mr C would have received from his employer. So he could have 
used those to meet other living expenses. 
 
I acknowledge that Mr Cs told us he had savings when he took out the mortgage. 
But Ive borne in mind that he chose to protect those, rather than taking out a smaller 
mortgage at the outset. And having the policy would have meant he could have kept 
hold of his savings, and wouldnt have had to rely on them to make his monthly 
mortgage payments if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job.
 
The mortgage was a significant financial commitment, secured on Mr Cs home, and 
the consequences of not keeping up with his monthly payments could have been 
serious. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to 
him.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that I think its likely, on balance, that Mr C 
knew he had a choice about taking the PPI. So I think he wanted this type of cover, 
even if hes understandably forgotten this now, so long after the event. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, Mr C was eligible for the policy. And 
he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it didnt cover (for 
example provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical 
conditions).
 
The policy was competitively priced, and it looks as if Mr C could afford it. And since 
he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time without further 
charge if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr C would have made a 
different decision about taking the PPI even if hed been given better information 
about the policy. 
 
Ive taken account of all Mr Cs comments, including what hes said about always having 
refused insurance policies when theyve been offered at the point of sale. And I can 
understand his frustration that Im having to reach my decision without sight of the 
paperwork he signed when he took out the mortgage and PPI. But for the reasons Ive set 
out, and having carefully considered the limited evidence available, I dont find that the policy 
was mis-sold.
  My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman