DRN-3251966
The complaint
Mrs W complains about a loan provided to her by Madison CF UK Limited, (trading as 118 
118 Money) which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mrs W with a loan of £2250 in September 2017. The loan was to 
be repaid over 24 Monthly instalments of £218.47. 
Mrs W says through her representative that the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have 
been given to her.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how 118 118 Money carried out its checks. But Im 
not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 24 months and 118 118 Money needed to 
ensure the repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of 
time;
Mrs W also had a default that had an outstanding balance, yet to be repaid.
I think, with what it had in front of it, 118 118 Money ought to have had some concerns 
about Mrs Ws finances. She had declared to it that she had a comfortable amount of 
disposable income and this wouldnt have added up with what it would have seen in Mrs 
Ws credit file. I consider on balance; 118 118 Money should have done more to check that 
the repayments were affordable for Mrs W over the term of the loan.
I need to think about what 118 118 Money would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. Our investigator asked Mrs W through her representatives to 
provide her bank statements from around the time she applied for the loan. Im not 
suggesting here that this is the check that 118 118 Money should have done. But I think 
looking at her bank statements would give me the best picture of what the lender should 
have seen.
Mrs W has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and 
around when she took out the loan though. So, I havent been able to see what 118 118 
Money would have most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I 
am unable to safely conclude that Mrs W was given a loan that was unaffordable for her. 
In conclusion, based on what it did have in front of it, I dont think the amount of disposable 
income left after Mrs W made her loan repayments would have been of concern. But as Ive 
said above, what 118 118 Money saw in its credit checks ought to have suggested better 
checks. And Ive not been able to see what better checks would have shown 118 118 
Money, so on this occasion I havent been able to draw any conclusions about this, other 
than I cant say that the loan was unaffordable for Mrs W.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not currently upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 118 118 Money responded, said it agreed with my provisional 
decision and has no further comments. Mrs Ws representative responded but it and Mrs 
W didnt provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman