DRN-3910058
The complaint
Mrs A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to carry out a foreign currency transfer in branch 
when she asked them to. Shes also unhappy with the service received on the phone when 
dealing with this issue.
What happened
In September 2022 Mrs A went into a branch of HSBC to transfer $120,000 from her USD 
account to her current account. Mrs A says she was told shed need to come back the next 
day because of the time the transaction would take  despite her being the only one in the 
branch. Mrs A raised these concerns on the phone and says HSBCs agent hung up on her.
In their responses to Mrs A HSBC said sorry for the poor service she received in branch and 
paid £50 for this. In a second response, HSBC said they heard the line cut off, but couldnt 
say why and could only assume it was a technical fault. They did add the agent should have 
called Mrs A back, and for that they paid her another £50.
Unhappy with this, Mrs A asked us to look into things. As part of our usual process, we 
asked HSBC for their version of events. They explained to us on the day in question the 
branch was only operating with two members of staff and a manager that day. They said this 
impacts their ability to carry out some things such as account opening, or the kind of 
transaction Mrs A wanted to make  both in terms of people who are able to input the 
transaction, and people who are able to authorise such things. 
One of our Investigators considered Mrs As complaint but didnt uphold it and said the £100 
HSBC had paid her was fair.
Mrs A didnt agree, she said she didnt think it was fair she was asked to go back to the 
branch the following day, and the branch didnt close until several hours after she went. As 
Mrs A didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have said after speaking to the branch they werent aware of Mrs As specific 
interaction, but say they were running with two staff and one manager on the day. Theyve 
also paid Mrs A £50 for the way she was dealt with. So, although HSBCs branch staff 
seemingly have no memory of the incident, HSBC does seem to have accepted this 
happened.
So, the question I need to answer is whether HSBC acted fairly in turning Mrs A away, and, 
if not, whether shes suffered any loss as a result of what happened.
Mrs A has made comments suggesting the branch wasnt particularly busy, and the staff 
were standing around chatting. I cant know exactly what happened as I wasnt there on the 
day, so all I can do is consider what Mrs A has said, against what HSBC have said.
Mrs A said she went into the branch in the afternoon, several hours before the branch 
closed. The transfer she wanted to do was between two of her own accounts. So, at face 
value, it would seem there isnt any reason that couldnt happen in plenty of time  
particularly if what Mrs A has said about the branch not being busy.
But, that requires the transaction to run smoothly. The transaction Mrs A wanted to do was 
for a large amount of money, $120,000. All transactions are subject to verification and fraud 
prevention checks, so its entirely possible Mrs As transaction could have been held up or 
even not processed purely for these reasons.
HSBC have also explained at the time Mrs A said she went into the branch, one of the 
members of staff could have been on their lunch break  which could also have impacted 
their ability to do the transaction.
Ultimately HSBC are speculating, because they dont recall Mrs A visiting the branch. So, 
Ive thought about whether Id award Mrs A more costs if I were to fully uphold this 
complaint, and I dont think I would.
I say that because, in part, Mrs A hasnt actually suffered a loss. Shes said following this 
interaction shes not gone and tried to carry out the transaction again. This does mean there 
is no comparison for me to make in terms of what exchange rate Mrs A would have got on 
the day  and did get later on. So, if I were to award any costs, it cant be for any exchange 
rate loss, as there hasnt been one.
With that in mind, Ill think about whether the total amount of compensation awarded for the 
two issues is fair at the end of this decision.
Turning now to the phone call, Ive heard the end of this where the call cut off. HSBC have 
said this is likely a technical error, as the agent was in the middle of speaking. I agree with 
their interpretation of why the call ended. The agent was in the middle of speaking, the call 
itself wasnt challenging, and had been going for around 18 minutes at that time so not a 
particularly long time either. I also agree with HSBC that the agent should have called Mrs A 
back. The agent wrote in their notes that Mrs A terminated the call. I think given the way the 
call was going that was unlikely, so its disappointing the agent didnt call Mrs A back.
HSBC have paid £50 for each instance of poor service - £100 in total. Thinking about this 
holistically, Mrs A has been turned away for a transaction she perhaps shouldnt have been, 
and she wasnt called back when she should have been. Overall, I do think £100 for these 
two issues is a fair way to resolve this matter. And, as this amount has already been paid to 
Mrs A, I dont require HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman