DRN-3796411
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund her 
after she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Miss B is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Miss B throughout this decision.
Miss B says that prior to the scam she had been following someone who specialised in 
trading and investments on social media. Ill refer to this person as H in my decision. Miss B 
felt that H was legitimate because she had numerous followers including celebrities. In 
November 2021 Miss B sent a message to H to say that she was interested in the cheapest 
investment scheme advertised by H. Miss B was told that if she invested £750, shed receive 
£1,000 back within a week. She felt this was a reasonable rate of return and decided to go 
ahead on 12 November 2021. 
H asked Miss B to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange to exchange her funds 
for Bitcoin that she could send on to a wallet as directed by H so that H could complete 
trades on Miss Bs behalf. Soon after shed made the initial transfer Miss B was told she had 
made huge profits and agreed to withdraw her funds, but H told her she would need to pay 
£2,500 as an administration and withdrawal fee. After shed made this payment Miss B was 
advised that she needed to pay £1,500 to cover tax as she had made so much profit. Miss B 
made all three payments over the course of around five hours. 
Miss B realised she was the victim of a scam when H asked for more money, started to be 
rude to her and then blocked all contact. Miss B says she called Halifax to raise a scam 
claim on the day of the scam, but the wait was too long. She spoke to Halifax on 25 
November 2021. 
Halifax noted that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code) doesnt apply in this case as it only applies to payments to another person and 
the transactions Miss B disputes were to an account in her own name. Halifax also said that 
at the time the payments were made it had no concerns about them.
Miss B was unhappy with Halifaxs response and brought a complaint to this service. She 
said Halifax failed to provide warnings in respect of the highly unusual transactions she had 
made so it should refund her in full and pay £500 compensation. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that the transactions Miss B made werent unusual enough to warrant intervention by Halifax 
and that Miss B had previously moved funds from her savings account to her current 
account before making payments, as she did on the day of the scam.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, she said Halifax should 
have intervened when the payments were made because the payments were unusual in 
value and were made in quick succession - following a known pattern of fraud. Previous 
spending on the account was generally low with most payments not exceeding £200. Miss B 
also said that the transfers of £1,100 and £2,700 in September and October 2021 were to 
accounts in her own name and so shouldnt be taken into account. Finally, Miss B referred to 
BSI: PAS 17271: 2017 Protecting customers from financial harm as result of fraud or 
financial abuse code of practice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Halifax is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. Its not disputed that Miss B made and authorised 
these payments, although I accept that at the time, she didnt know she was being 
scammed.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice (including the BSI code I referred to above) and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring 
accounts and any payments made or received to counter various risks, including 
anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud 
and scams.
Have had systems in place 
to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its 
customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the 
increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, 
irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or made 
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss B when she authorised payments from her account or whether it could and should have 
done more before processing them. 
Ive seen evidence from Halifax that when Miss B made the first payment of £750, she was 
asked to provide the reason for the payment and was given a warning that was tailored to 
the payment purpose. Miss B said the payment was for an investment and was provided with 
a warning that said,
[name] make sure this investment is real
Deals that look too good to be true can be scams.
Do lots of research  good deals dont find you.
See what your family and friends think.
Use the FCA to check an advisor or company.
Find out how to stay safe from scams on our Fraud Hub.
There were links to the FCA website and to Halifaxs Fraud Hub.
After carefully considering this warning and Miss Bs statements for the twelve-month period 
before the scam Im satisfied that Halifax did enough when Miss B made the scam 
payments.I dont consider that the scam transactions were so unusual and out of character that Halifax 
ought reasonably to have done more than provide an on-screen warning when they were 
made. The amounts were relatively low, and Miss B has previously made payments to a 
different cryptocurrency exchange, so the payee wasnt unusual either. For example, in May 
2021 Miss B transferred £1,000 from her Halifax account to a different cryptocurrency 
exchange and shortly before the scam transactions there were two £500 transactions on the 
same day to a cryptocurrency exchange. And the pattern of transactions didnt match 
common investment scams which involve payments increasing in value over time. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider the transactions Miss B made on 12 November 2021 would 
have caused Halifax any concern. 
I appreciate the overall loss is significant to Miss B, but a balance must be struck between 
Halifax identifying potentially fraudulent payments, and responding appropriately to any 
concerns, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all low value transactions 
such as the ones Miss B made in November 2021 were flagged by a bank for additional 
checks many legitimate payments would be affected.  
As I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint it follows that I am not awarding compensation. 
Overall, whilst Im very sorry to hear Miss B has lost money in a cruel scam, I cant 
reasonably ask Halifax to refund her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman