DRN-1901940
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that a used car he acquired from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) 
under a conditional sale agreement was of unsatisfactory quality, and not as described, 
contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
What happened
Mr R entered into the conditional sale agreement for the car in May 2018. It was then some 
six and a half years old, and had a recorded mileage of 35,601 miles. The cash price of the 
car was £6,832. Mr R paid an advance payment of £52, and agreed to pay the balance, plus 
finance charges, by monthly instalments of £216.62 each over 5 years.
Mr R was told there would be a delay in supplying the car from the supplying dealer (SD) 
because of a problem with the cars injectors. When Mr Rs wife collected the car, smoke 
billowed from the car on the journey home. The Fire Brigade attended and found a major 
diesel leak which had caught fire.
SD collected the car and repaired it. Mr R asked for details of the repairs SD had carried out. 
He also asked SD for evidence that the car had been serviced before delivery. The sales 
invoice included a service before sale, but the relevant stamp in the service book was 
absent. Mr R says that in spite of repeated requests SD failed to respond to these requests.
At the end of June 2018 Mr R noticed a noise coming from the engine which he was told 
could be the injectors. He says he tried to speak to SD about this but no one in SDs 
management would speak to him about it. So in November 2018 he got another motor 
repairer (MR) to look at the car.
MR found that injectors 3 and 4 were leaking. It removed and cleaned them and fitted new 
sealing washers. When asked to say when, in its opinion, the problem with the injectors 
might have started it said:
Even though I can't give you an exact time of how long this had been happening for, it 
doesn't tend to be something that would happen over night and would say it had been going 
on prior to your initial contact with us on the 5th November 2018.
In May 2019 Mr R found out that under the CRA Moneybarn was equally responsible with 
SD for any faults present in the car at delivery which meant it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
So he asked Moneybarn to reimburse what he had spent on repairing the injectors - £536.51 
- and repairing a window switch which he said became faulty shortly after delivery - £88.42.
He also complained of other issues with the car, including:
the fact it apparently hadnt been serviced before delivery contrary to the sales 
invoice;
a missing cover for a headlight in the engine bay;a missing jack; and
a faulty handbrake switch.
 
He said that more recently he also had to replace the flywheel and the clutch.
Moneybarn didnt accept his complaint. It said the matters Mr R complained of were largely 
down to wear and tear. It said the car had covered 15,000 miles since delivery and Mr R 
hadnt provided evidence that the faults were inherent or developing at delivery. So Mr R 
complained to us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said Moneybarns 
statement that the car had covered 15,000 miles since delivery was incorrect. The true figure 
was just over 7,000 miles.
She noted that:
delivery of the car had been delayed because of faulty injectors;
SD had been unwilling to provide information about the supposed repairs it carried 
out to the injectors; and
MR had said that in its opinion the problem with the injectors had developed within 
the first six months after delivery.
 
On this basis the investigator said she was satisfied that the issue with the injectors was 
likely to have been present or developing at delivery. Mr R said the fault with the window 
switch was reported to SD within a few days of delivery. So the investigator thought this fault 
had also been present at delivery.
As this was a used car, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint about the window wiper 
as this was a wear and tear item. She didnt have any evidence about the other items Mr R 
complained about, but thought they too were likely to be the result of wear and tear, with the 
exception of the jack.
The investigator said the car was advertised, and sold, as having a service. But the service 
book was unstamped, and so she didnt think it had received the promised service, or the 
114 point check that was also mentioned on the sales invoice. She said she wouldnt 
comment on the later issues with the flywheel and clutch, as they arose later and werent 
part of the complaint originally raised with us by Mr R.
The investigator recommended that Moneybarn should reimburse the cost to Mr R of 
repairing the injectors and the faulty window switch, plus interest to the date of settlement. 
She also recommended that Moneybarn reimburse Mr R for the cost of one service of the 
car subject to his providing an invoice in respect of this.
Moneybarn responded to say, in summary, that what MR said about the issue with the 
injectors was just its opinion, and no evidence had been provided to support or substantiate 
it.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional view to Mr R and to Moneybarn on 11 May 2020. In it I said that as 
the owner, and provider of finance, under the conditional sale agreement, Moneybarn was responsible under the CRA for ensuring that the car was of satisfactory quality at delivery to 
Mr R. In considering what was reasonable the standard for a used car would be different 
from that expected for a new car.
Where a fault appeared in the first six months after delivery, the onus was on the supplier, 
Moneybarn, to show it wasnt present at delivery. Where a fault appeared after this, the onus 
was on the consumer, Mr R, to show it was present at delivery. I accepted MR's professional 
opinion that the fault with the injectors was likely to have been evident within the first six 
months after delivery.
In the absence of any evidence from Moneybarn to the contrary, I thought, for the reasons 
the investigator explained, it was most likely that the faults with the injectors and the window 
switch were present at delivery. So I thought it was fair and reasonable that Moneybarn 
should reimburse the cost of Mr R repairing these, with interest from the date of payment 
until settlement.
Like the investigator, I thought the window wiper, the missing headlight cover, and the faulty 
handbrake switch that Mr R complained about were wear and tear items and in view of the 
age and mileage of the car at delivery I didnt think it was reasonable to require Moneybarn 
to attend to these. Similarly, the fact that the jack was missing in a car of this age didnt in 
my view make it of unsatisfactory quality.
The issues with the flywheel and the clutch werent mentioned as part of Mr Rs original 
complaint to us, and I hadnt seen any evidence to suggest they were present or developing 
at the time of delivery. So I wouldnt comment further on them as part of this decision.
I said there were two aspects of this complaint, however, on which I had come to different 
conclusions from the investigator:
Firstly, when Mr R acquired the car, the sales invoice prepared by SD promised as part of 
the transaction an Oil & Filter interim service. Like the investigator, I wasnt persuaded that 
this was carried out by SD before delivery.
As compensation, the investigator recommended that Moneybarn should reimburse Mr R for 
the cost of one service of the car subject to his providing an invoice in respect of this. 
However, there were different types of car service.
The one SD promised was an oil & filter interim service, which is relatively cheap and 
straightforward. However other services such as a main or major service can be much more 
complicated and expensive, depending on the make of the car, and its age and mileage at 
the time.
From research I'd done, it seemed the manufacturer of Mr Rs type of car offered a minor 
service for Mr Rs type and age of car, including change of oil and filters, from its national 
network of dealers for £179. And other national vehicle repairing chains also offered an 
interim service for Mr Rs type of car, including oil and filter changes, for a bit less than this.
I said I didnt know what services Mr R had carried out on his car or now required. So while I 
thought it was fair and reasonable that Moneybarn should reimburse Mr R for the cost of one 
service of the car, subject to his providing an invoice in respect of this, I thought the 
reimbursement should be subject to a cap of £179.
Secondly, I thought Mr R had suffered distress and inconvenience because of the 
unsatisfactory quality of the car, particularly the issue with the injectors. Much of this was 
caused by the poor customer service of SD, which persistently refused to deal with his complaints. This arose before Mr R realised Moneybarn was responsible for the condition of 
the car under the CRA and complained to it.
While I couldnt hold Moneybarn responsible for SDs poor customer care, I said that when 
Mr R did complain to Moneybarn in May 2019, I didnt think it dealt fairly with his complaint. It 
quoted an incorrect distance covered by Mr R in the car, and wrongly suggested it was for 
Mr R to prove that the problems he had identified within the first six months were inherent or 
developing at delivery.
I thought Moneybarns poor handling of Mr Rs complaint lengthened his complaint, and 
caused him distress and inconvenience for which it was right that he should be 
compensated. I thought Moneybarn should pay Mr R a further £150 as compensation for 
this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Moneybarn raised three points in response to my provisional decision:
1. It asked what was the MR's professional opinion that the fault with the injectors was 
likely to have been evident within the first six months after delivery mentioned in my 
provisional decision. Moneybarn was referred to the email from MR to Mr Rs wife 
which was in Moneybarns business file.
2. It asked for sight of the cars service book evidencing that there was no stamp for a 
pre-delivery service. This has been supplied.
3. It believed the window switch was replaced in September 2018. It thought this was 
an electrical item which could fail at any time, and that Moneybarn shouldnt be 
responsible for its failure at that interval after delivery.
 
At the time I issued my provisional decision I believed this switch had failed shortly after 
delivery. I asked Mr R to say exactly when it had failed. He said it actually failed two and a 
half months after he collected the car.
Mr R had responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. I said that in view of what 
he had now told me about when the window switch failed, and the age of the car at that time, 
I thought this was more likely to have occurred because of wear and tear, rather than being 
an inherent fault at the date of delivery.
So I didnt now think it was reasonable to require Moneybarn to reimburse him for this. Mr R 
said he would accept this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With the exception of the point Moneybarn raised about the window switch, which Mr R has 
accepted, neither Mr R nor Moneybarn has provided any fresh information or evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. So with that exception, I find no reason to depart from 
my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
I think Moneybarn should pay the money, and take the other steps, as set out in my final 
decision below.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
 
1. reimburse Mr R £536.51 for the injector repairs, and pay him yearly interest at the 
rate of 8% simple from the date he paid for the repairs until settlement; (1)
 
2. reimburse Mr R for the cost of carrying out one service on his car subject to his 
providing a receipted invoice for the service and subject to a reimbursement cap of 
£179, and
 
3. pay Mr R compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience its poor handling 
of his complaint has caused him.
 
(1)   If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman