DRN-4235487
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his account without notice. 
Mr M wants HSBC to pay significant compensation together with the balance in the account.
What happened
Mr M is a sole trader, trading as I. Mr M held a business bank account with HSBC. In 2020 
and 2021 HSBC carried out a safeguarding review but didnt hear back from Mr M. HSBC 
told Mr M that it would close his account in May 2021.
HSBC then agreed to reopen the safeguard review later in 2021 but it sent an incorrectly 
addressed email to Mr M. As Mr M didnt receive the email, he didnt engage with the review 
and HSBC subsequently closed his account in December 2021.
Before this service became involved, HSBC apologised to Mr M and paid £1,000 
compensation. Mr M said he accepted HSBCs offer on the basis that it reopened his 
account. 
Mr M says that HSBC started to reinstate his account but he didnt hear anything back. 
HSBC says that due to the time that has passed, it cant just reopen Mr Ms account and he 
would have to reapply for a new account.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. In summary, he said 
that HSBC sent Mr M letters concerning the online safeguard review before notifying Mr M 
that the account would close in May 2021. HSBC granted Mr M an extension of time to 
complete the process but sent emails about the review to the wrong email address. 
The investigator agreed that HSBC made mistakes when dealing with Mr Ms account but 
thought that £1,000 compensation was more than he would have recommended.
Although Mr M says that HSBC started to reinstate his account in 2022, HSBC disagrees. It 
says it received some safeguarding information in 2022 but that this wasnt at HSBCs 
request as by that time, Mr Ms account was already closed.
Mr M disagrees with the investigators recommendation. He says he set up telephone 
banking and used it regularly until HSBC ended it.
Mr M says he didnt receive any letters from HSBC, including the letter enclosing the cheque 
for the account balance. So, Mr M says HSBC should pay interest on the account balance. 
Mr M says HSBC charged account fees at the same time as preventing him from using the 
account. Mr M says these fees should be refunded. 
Mr M has provided tracking information to show he sent evidence to HSBC in January 2022. 
The investigator didnt agree that telephone banking was set up as HSBC had already 
closed the account. The investigator said HSBC couldnt be held responsible for letters not 
arriving. The investigator appreciated that Mr M sent HSBC the information it required but 
that this was after it had already closed the account. 
The investigator said that as a complaint regarding the charging of fees hadnt previously 
been received by HSBC, Mr M would first need to raise his concerns with HSBC or provide 
evidence that hed already done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so, 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
HSBC agrees that it made some mistakes when carrying out the safeguard review, in 
particular sending emails to the wrong email address. I dont think its particularly helpful to 
go back over everything in detail. Instead, I am looking at whether HSBC has now done 
enough to put things right for Mr M.
HSBC says that given the time that has passed its not possible to simply reopen Mr Ms 
account and I accept this to be correct. So, Ive thought about whether HSBCs 
compensation payment of £1,000 is a reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
The compensation falls within the range of award we might make where the businesses 
mistake has caused substantial upset and possibly serious offence and disruption has been 
caused over several months. I appreciate Mr M would like HSBC to pay a figure nearer 
£10,000 but I dont think an award of that size is justified, particularly as HSBC gave Mr M 
several opportunities to complete the safeguard review throughout 2020 and 2021 before it 
sent the incorrectly addressed email. 
I think £1,000 is a fair reflection of the impact felt by Mr M when he hasnt been able to 
access his HSBC bank account and had to spend time trying to sort the issue out. 
Particularly as it appears Mr M had access to an alternative bank account from at least 
August 2022. So, I imagine this would have lessened the impact of the account closure on 
him.  
Although Mr M says that telephone banking was set up again, this isnt what HSBC says 
happened. And I can see from one of HSBCs notes that it confirmed to Mr M in February 
2022 that registering a telephone banking security number would not reopen a closed 
account. 
Mr M says that he was threatened with legal action by a third party that he owed money to. I 
understand that this was upsetting but Mr M was able to pay the outstanding bills using other 
funds. So, I still think £1,000 compensation fairly reflects the impact HSBCs mistakes had 
on Mr M.
Ive thought about Mr Ms request for interest to be paid on the balance in his account. 
HSBCs records show that it sent the closing balance to Mr M by cheque at the address it 
held on file. Although the cheque wasnt cashed, I cant say that this was HSBCs fault so I 
dont require it to pay interest on the balance, particularly as it doesnt have any record of Mr 
M raising concerns over where the payment was. HSBC asked Mr M to confirm which bank account it should pay the balance to. Mr M has 
confirmed that his bank account details remain the same as those he gave to HSBC in 
August 2022. So, I will ask our investigator to send Mr Ms bank account details to HSBC if 
he hasnt already done so. HSBC should then pay the closing balance to Mr M as agreed. 
I note Mr Ms concerns about the fees and interest that he was charged during the time that 
his account was restricted. Like the investigator, I cant see that this formed part of Mr Ms 
complaint to this service. However, I can see that when HSBC emailed Mr M in July 2022, it 
said it had already refunded some charges and interest for the period that the account was 
restricted. HSBC said it had calculated that it still owed Mr M just under £20. So, if Mr M 
hasnt received this refund, he should let HSBC know. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already done 
and offered enough to put things right. HSBC has already paid Mr M £1,000 compensation. 
So, if hasnt yet done so, HSBC should pay Mr M the balance in his account.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman