DRN-3121716
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Matrix Model Group (UK) Ltd (MMG) was responsible for the
transfer of two of his personal pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to invest
in a high-risk investment - Ethical Forestry (EF). He says that the transfer wasnt suitable or 
in his best interests.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only
summarised them below.
In 2011 Mr J was contacted by a representative of Ethical Forestry (EF) about making a
cash investment into EF which was an unregulated collective investment scheme. Mr J says
the representative also asked him if he had a pension which could be transferred into a SIPP
for a further investment in EF. Mr J was then introduced by the representative of EF to MMG
who could facilitate a transfer of his pensions.
Mr J says that before hed spoken to MMG, hed not made any investments into EF. But hed
been considering making a cash investment of £18,000. He was also considering
transferring two personal pensions with a combined value of around £12,200 into a SIPP in
order to hold a further investment into EF.
Mr J says he spoke to an adviser from MMG who reassured him that the adviser himself had
made an investment with EF and had advised many of MMGs clients to do the same. Mr J
says on these reassurances, he invested £18,000 in EF.
Mr J was living abroad at the time and MMG say that, as they were a non-MiFID firm, they
were unable to give Mr J any advice as to the suitability of transferring his pensions or
investing in EF.
Between August and October 2011 MMG and Mr J communicated via telephone and email
during which MMG say they told Mr J they could only transact his business on an execution
only basis and couldnt give him any advice about transferring his pensions or the underlying
investment.
In October 2011 Mr J came to the UK and had a meeting with MMG during which he
completed the paperwork to transfer his two personal pensions into a SIPP and invest
£12,000 into EF. And by November 2011 both of Mr Js personal pensions had been
transferred into a SIPP and the investment into EF was made.
In 2016 EF went into liquidation and so Mr J says the investment now holds nil value.
In July 2018 Mr J, through a representative, complained to MMG. He said he didnt think 
hed been given suitable advice to transfer his personal pensions into a SIPP. Amongst other
things, he said MMG hadnt followed the regulators rules in giving him advice and hadnt
acted in his best interests.
MMG responded to Mr Js letter by providing a copy of their file and said that they hadnt
advised Mr J but had acted on an execution only basis. But MMG didnt provide any referral
rights to our service.
In 2019 Mr J brought his complaint to us via his representatives. MMG didnt think this was a
case we could look into as they thought Mr J had made his complaint and brought it to us too
late. But on 17 August 2021 an ombudsman made the decision that this was a case that we
could consider.
I sent Mr J and MMG my provisional decision on the merits of this complaint on 
15 September 2021. In it I said I didnt think MMG had advised Mr J to invest in EF or that 
they had given a recommendation to transfer his personal pensions into a SIPP. I said based 
on the information Id seen, MMG were acting on an execution only basis when carrying out 
the transaction for Mr J. So, I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ive copied the 
findings from my provisional decision below.  
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said;
Id like to assure both parties that Ive first considered again whether this case falls within our
jurisdiction. And, for the reasons explained in the decision dated 17 August 2021, Im
satisfied that it does.
Both parties have made detailed submissions including a number of points to support their
arguments. Ive considered all of the submissions carefully. But I wont address each and
every point when setting out my findings. In keeping with the informal nature of our service
Ive focused on the matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Many of Mr Js concerns relate to whether MMG followed the regulators rules and guidance
when giving advice or a recommendation to invest. But MMG say they didnt give Mr J any
regulated advice. So, the issue to determine here is whether MMG gave Mr J advice to
invest in EF and whether they then advised him to transfer his two personal pensions into a
SIPP so that a further investment in EF could be made.
Did MMG advise Mr J to invest in EF?
Its accepted that it wasnt MMG that first introduced Mr J to the investment in EF. But Mr J
says he only went ahead with the investment after speaking to MMG and they advised him
that it was a good idea.
Mr J says he first had contact with MMG over the phone on 2 August 2011. And it was only
after then, on the 15 August 2011, that Mr J made his first investment into EF of £18,000.
Mr J says thats because the adviser from MMG confirmed their company had advised many
clients to invest in EF and the adviser himself also held investments with them.
I think, on balance its likely those things were said by the financial adviser as the evidence
Ive seen shows these comments to be true. I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling that he
was given advice by MMG but when evidence is conflicting or missing, I base my decision
on what I think is most likely to have happened considering all the circumstances of the
case. And on balance I dont think MMG had offered or given Mr J advice to invest in EF. Ill
explain why.
Importantly, at the time MMG were an MiFID exempt firm. So, they werent able to provide
Mr J with regulated advice while he lived abroad. And theres also no indication that Mr J had
paid MMG for any advice about investing in EF or that hed entered into any clientagreements with MMG to provide any regulated advice at that point.
Had MMG given Mr J a recommendation and advised him of the suitability of investing in EF
I would have expected to see a fact find conducted with Mr J to assess his personal and
financial situation at the time. Id also have expected MMG to have assessed Mr Js attitude
to investment risk. MMG would have then needed to produce a suitability report to highlight
to Mr J the pros and cons of his investment. And made a personal recommendation that the
investment in EF was suitable for Mr J considering his specific circumstances. But I havent
seen any evidence that MMG did any of these things. So, while I appreciate Mr J may have
been pleased to hear the MMGs comments that the investment had been recommended to
others, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show they gave him a personal
recommendation to invest in EF.
Did MMG advise Mr J to transfer his two personal pensions to a SIPP so that he could make
a further investment into EF?
Following the phone call in early August, MMG sent an email to Mr J dated 23 August 2011.
The email made it quite clear that MMG were a non-MiFID firm and therefore couldnt
provide Mr J with advice whilst he lived abroad. MMG went on to say it would be possible for
them to transact the business Mr J wanted - to transfer both his personal pensions to a SIPP
to facilitate the purchase of £12,000 investment in EF. But MMG said theyd have to meet 
Mr J in the UK and complete the paperwork. MMG went on to say If we did this it would be 
best done on an Execution Only basis, whereby you tell me, in writing, exactly what you 
want and I then transact it on a non advice basis.
So, MMGs communications were clear and didnt mislead Mr J into thinking they could
provide him advice on his transfer and investment when they couldnt.
On 21 October 2011 Mr J sent MMG a signed letter. The letter said;
After my personal research and due diligence, I would request you as a director of Matrix
Model Group to transact the following instruction as detailed below.
The letter went on to give clear instructions to MMG to transfer Mr Js two personal pensions
into a SIPP. He then asked MMG to purchase 400 Acacia trees from EF with a purchase
price of £12,000. He said the trees were currently held on reserve.
I think this shows that on balance, Mr J had made his mind up to invest in EF after his own
personal research and due diligence. Mr J had already invested £18,000 outside of his
pension into EF. And as Ive said, I dont think that was based on advice given by MMG. It
was EFs representative that provided Mr J with information on the investment. And I havent
seen any evidence that the investment was advertised or sold to Mr J by MMG. In addition to
that, Mr J had already agreed directly with EFs representative that they would pay the set up
costs of his SIPP of £460 and hed already reserved the 400 trees his £12,000 investment
would purchase.
On the same date Mr J also completed a form supplied by MMG entitled execution only/non
advised sale confirmation form.
The form said:
Transacting business on an Execution Only/Non Advised basis means that a contract is
executed by the Firm upon the customers specific instructions. In other words, the Firm has
not given advice relating to the merits of the contract.
If this is the basis upon which you wish to proceed, please complete, sign and return thisconfirmation.
The form was completed by Mr J and signed by him. It again recorded that Mr J wished for a
SIPP to be set up in order to make an investment into EF.
Mr J says he was told what to say in his instruction letters. However, I dont think its
unreasonable for MMG to say what information was required in the letter. And I can see that
Mr J sent MMG an email on 14 October 2011 with a draft of the letter attached to ask if it
was ok. Therefore, I think its likely that although MMG told Mr J what information was
required in the letter, it was written by Mr J and in his own words.
Our investigator pointed out that the SIPP provider required their clients to have a financial
adviser. But weve since spoken to the SIPP provide who have confirmed they were aware
that MMG were acting on an execution only basis when setting up the SIPP for Mr J and
purchasing the investment. So, while there was a requirement to have a financial adviser,
the SIPP provider didnt require the adviser to have provided regulated advice before the
transaction could be made. The advisers role was to transact the transfers into the SIPP
and purchase the investment. And that could be done on an execution only basis.
The SIPP provider also confirmed that MMG werent paid any fees from the SIPP which is
consistent with MMGs account that they only got paid a commission from EF for transacting
the investment. I havent seen any evidence that Mr J paid MMG directly or otherwise for
advice.
When transferring Mr Js two personal pensions to a SIPP in order to invest in EF I again
have seen no evidence that a fact find was conducted with Mr J, nor was there a suitability
report or any written recommendation made to him. Ive seen that MMG answered specific
questions asked of them in relation to the SIPP but I dont find that unreasonable. And in
MMGs email of 11 October 2011 they again said this is not advice as I cannot advise you
whilst you are [abroad] and I am in the UK. I can however act on your written instruction to
transact your 2 pension transfers and purchase Ethical Forestry should you still wish, during
a face to face meeting on your next trip to the UK.
MMG disclosed the SIPP fees to Mr J in an email dated 23 August 2011 which was before
he made the decision to open the SIPP. And theres further evidence that Mr J agreed to pay
the £300 a year fee by being invoiced by the SIPP provider. So, I think he was fully aware of
the costs involved.
Overall, Im satisfied that theres insufficient evidence to show MMG gave Mr J advice to
transfer his two personal pensions and invest in EF. And so, on balance, I think MMG
completed this transaction on an execution only basis. It then follows that I dont think MMG
were responsible for making sure the investment was suitable for Mr J. And as an MiFID
exempt firm, they didnt need to ensure the investment was appropriate either.
From the evidence Ive seen, MMG completed the instruction from Mr J to open a SIPP and
invest in EF within a reasonable timeframe having already disclosed to him the costs
involved. Therefore, Im minded not to uphold this complaint
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr J sent a detailed submission for my consideration. In summary he said;
Hed not made any decisions to invest in EF until he was persuaded by MMGs 
adviser. MMG gave regulated advice when they said theyd recommended the investment to 
others and when the adviser himself said he held investments in EF. Mr J said 
PERG 8.28 demonstrates the comments made by the adviser were more than merely 
information, they were advice.
There was a single braided stream of advice between the recommendation to invest 
in the unregulated investment in EF and regulated activity of setting up the SIPP. So 
MMG were bound in regulation to give him suitable advice and they didnt.
MMG should have completed an appropriateness test as described in COBS 10 
which would have shown the investment wasnt appropriate for him. 
There was precedent set in case law to show why Mr Js complaint should be upheld.
MMG made no further submissions for my consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr J for the time hes taken to respond to my provisional decision. While I 
may not comment on each point hes made, Ive carefully considered all his arguments. 
My decision will focus on those points which I think are materially relevant to this complaint. 
In his response to my provisional findings Mr J highlighted some of the rules and guidance 
contained within the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) handbook. Namely the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS) and the Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG).
I appreciate why Mr J says MMG should have had due regard for COBS 10, because the 
rules contained within COBS 10 would apply to a similar transaction now. But in 2011 when 
Mr Js transaction took place, COBS 10 applied to a firm which provides investment services 
in the course of MiFID or equivalent third country business. And Im satisfied the transaction 
wasnt in the course of MiFID business as MMG were MiFID exempt at the time. Therefore, 
at the time MMG werent required to assess the appropriateness of the investment under 
COBS 10.
Mr J has given a more detailed recollection of the conversations he had with MMGs adviser 
regarding EF. He says the adviser told him many times that the investment was good 
enough that he himself had invested. And hed recommended it to many of his clients. 
Mr J believes the advisers reassurances and persuasiveness were key in his decision to 
invest in EF and therefore constitute advice. Despite the emails from MMG saying they 
couldnt offer advice and maintaining that they didnt.
Mr J highlighted PERG 8.28 which gives guidance on the difference between giving financial 
advice and providing information to a client. At the time of the advice PERG 8.28 said;
In the FSA's view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviserIn 
general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value judgement on 
its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
Mr J says that by the adviser saying he held the investments himself, he was making a value 
judgement in order to persuade Mr J to invest in EF. I wasnt present during the calls 
between Mr J and MMGs adviser, so I cant say for sure what was said. Where evidence is conflicting or missing, I base my decisions on whats most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities using the evidence available to me. 
I said in my provisional decision that it was likely MMG confirmed their company had advised 
clients to invest in EF and the adviser himself held investments with them. But Ive not seen 
enough evidence that persuades me these comments formed part of a value judgement 
where the adviser said how good or bad of an idea it was for Mr J to invest. 
The phone calls were made more than 10 years ago and while Mr J says MMG insisted on 
communicating via the phone and MMG constructed their emails in a way to offer 
themselves protection. I havent seen enough evidence that was the case.
From the documented evidence we do have from the time  the emails sent to Mr J and the 
paperwork he filled out - it was clearly communicated that MMG werent offering Mr J any 
advice. MMG told him that on several occasions. So, while Mr J might himself have put 
some weight on the advisers comments when making his decision to invest. Im still not 
persuaded that MMG gave Mr J regulated advice or a recommendation to invest in EF. And I 
think it was clear to Mr J he wasnt being provided with or paying for any advice from MMG. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr J but, as I dont think MMG gave him advice  
it follows that there cant be a single braided stream of advice between the unregulated 
investment in EF and the regulated activity of setting up the SIPP. 
Mr J has pointed out several cases which have been through the courts and said they show 
precedence for upholding his complaint. While Ive paid due regard to his submissions, I 
dont think the cases hes highlighted are comparable to the specific circumstances of his 
complaint. For example, Mr J referenced cases where the relationships between businesses 
have been so closely linked that the advice given by an unregulated firm could be 
considered as advice being given by the regulated firm. However, Ive seen no evidence that 
EF gave Mr J any advice to invest or that advice was being given by EF on behalf of MMG.
Mr J also referenced a case whereby an investor approached an adviser looking for a 
product in which to invest the proceeds from the sale of his house. In that case the adviser 
recommended a specific investment saying it was the most suitable for him. The courts said 
that was advice. But in Mr Js complaint he already had the specific investment in mind, it 
wasnt selected or recommended to him by MMG and as Ive said, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence that MMG said the investment was suitable for him either.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in this and my provisional decision, my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman