DRN-3286787
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way Amtrust Europe Limited handled a claim under their 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
On 27 October 2019, Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their insurance policy for the legal 
costs relating to a boundary dispute. They stated on the claim form that the date of the 
incident was 21 October 2019. The claim form asked for a diary of events and any further 
details that have led you to make this claim. Mr and Mrs W answered this with a timeline of 
events starting on 24 July 2019. 
Amtrust declined the claim on the basis that the series of events giving rise to the claim 
started before the policy inception on 21 September 2019. It also explained there was only 
cover for the pursuit of a property claim or counterclaim, and that disputes arising within the 
first 90 days werent covered unless continuous legal expenses cover had been in place 
prior to the start of the policy. 
But Mr and Mrs W said the timeline was provided for background purposes only. They said 
their neighbour contacted them about the boundary line being in a different place and they 
agreed. It wasnt until 21 October 2019 that the neighbour changed their mind about where 
the boundary should be, and the dispute arose. 
Mr and Mrs W did contact their previous legal expenses insurer who said the claim wouldnt 
be covered under their previous policy. They provided Amtrust with proof of this policy. 
On 6 November 2019, Amtrust maintained its rejection of the claim. It asked Mr and Mrs W 
to revert back to their previous insurer and if they refused cover, Amtrust wanted to see the 
reasons for that decision. On 18 November 2019, Amtrust was copied into an email from the 
previous insurer declining the claim. Based on this, Amtrust agreed to cover it and a panel 
solicitor was instructed on 27 November 2019.
Mr and Mrs W say the solicitors didnt receive the documentation from Amtrust until 20 
December 2019. And they took until 6 April 2020 to complete their legal assessment, at 
which time the claim was accepted. 
During that time, Mr and Mrs W say they had no choice but to incur legal costs in dealing 
with their neighbour. These costs arent being met by the policy, but Mr and Mrs W complain 
that had Amtrust dealt with their claim in a timely manner and accepted it from the outset, 
they wouldve been incurred when cover was in place.
In March 2021, the solicitors contacted Amtrust to say the claim was no longer proportionate 
to pursue which is a requirement for cover under the policy. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint to the solicitors regarding their conduct. They 
say they made the solicitors aware of the nature / character of the opponent from the outset 
and that the solicitors shouldve been aware proportionate costs wouldnt bring the claim to a 
conclusion. Instead, costs have been incurred in winding up the opponent and then leaving 
Mr and Mrs W high and dry and exposed. 
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator explained we could 
only look into the actions of Amtrust, not the solicitors who have their own complaints 
procedure and ombudsman service. 
Our investigator was satisfied Amtrust had acted in line with the policys terms and 
conditions and it hadnt acted unfairly. So she didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs W 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling regarding their complaint and I appreciate the 
circumstances of their legal dispute have been stressful. I want to assure them that whilst Im 
aware I may have condensed some of their complaint points in far less detail and in my own 
words, Ive read and considered everything theyve told us. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. 
Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail they would like, in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Claim rejection
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws legal expenses insurance policy says it will 
cover a claim wherethe insured incident takes place in the insured period. 
The policy defines insured incident as the incident or the first of a series of incidents which 
may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have 
arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related by cause or time.
The policy has a general exclusion which says theres no cover whereyou should have 
known when buying this insurance that the circumstances leading to a claim under this 
insurance already existed. 
Mr and Mrs W say there was no dispute or claim until 21 October 2019. But that isnt the test 
here. The policy is clear that its the date on which the first incident which may lead to a 
claim occurs and when the circumstances leading to a claim existed.
In regard to property disputes specifically, the policy says it will cover costs to pursue a 
legal actionfor nuisance or trespass against the person or organisation infringing your 
legal rights in relation to your main home. There is no cover where the nuisance or trespass 
started within the first 90 days after you first purchased this insurance unless you have held equivalent cover with us or another insurer continuously for a period of at least 90 days 
leading up to when the nuisance or trespass first started.
Based on these policy terms and conditions, Amtrust was required to determine when the 
incident first arose to ensure it fell within the policy period. And if it started within the first 90 
days of cover, it needed to know whether Mr and Mrs W held previous legal expenses cover.
Looking at the claim form submitted by Mr and Mrs W, I can see they refer to accusations 
and officious / aggressive emails from the opponent in August 2021 regarding the felling of 
trees and trespassing. In early September, there was correspondence regarding the erection 
of a fence on the boundary.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs W say they agreed with the neighbours proposed boundary 
line at that time, this isnt reflected on the claim form and it doesnt take away from the fact 
that this is when the series of incidents began which led to the claim.
For clarity, its not my role to determine when the incident first giving rise to the claim arose. 
Im not here to make a claims decision. Its for me to decide whether Amtrust acted in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and in a fair and reasonable manner when it declined 
the claim. And from looking at the timeline provided, I can understand why Amtrust 
concluded that the incidents leading to the claim occurred before the policy started. 
So it follows that I dont think it was unfair for Amtrust to redirect Mr and Mrs W to their 
previous insurers for cover. When it was informed the claim had been declined and it had the 
reasons behind this decision, Amtrust agreed to take the claim on itself which Im satisfied 
was the correct approach.
Delays 
Amtrust received notification that Mr and Mrs Ws previous insurers had declined the claim 
on 18 November 2019. Following this, it sought a decision from underwriters and solicitors 
were instructed on 27 November 2019.
Mr and Mrs W say the solicitors didnt receive the documentation for their claim from Amtrust 
until 20 December 2019. Ive reviewed Amtrusts file and I cant agree this was the case. Im 
satisfied the file was sent to the solicitors with the initial instructions on 27 November 2019. 
I understand the solicitors contacted Amtrust on 2 December 2019 to raise a query on a 
policy exclusion which Amtrust responded to on 5 December 2019. 
After this, there was no subsequent contact from the solicitors until 22 January 2020 when it 
provided Amtrust with their initial legal assessment. This concluded that they were unable to 
confirm the claim had reasonable prospects of success or was proportionate to pursue on 
the information provided. I understand they required Mr and Mrs W to obtain an expert 
report. It wasnt until April 2020 that the solicitors received this report and were able to 
confirm the claim could be accepted. 
Whilst I appreciate that throughout this, Mr and Mrs W had incurred legal costs to deal with 
their neighbour and the ongoing dispute, I cant fairly say Amtrust caused delays here. It 
instructed solicitors once it was in a position to accept responsibility for the claim. And cover 
was granted once it received the supportive legal assessment from the solicitors.  
If Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how long the solicitors took to assess the claim and 
confirm that prospects and proportionality requirements were met, theyll need to raise this to the solicitors directly  if they havent already. Amtrust arent responsible for the actions of 
the solicitors or their day to day handling of the claim.
As I havent been able to identify any delays by Amtrust, I cant fairly hold it liable for the 
legal costs Mr and Mrs W incurred during this time.
Proportionality 
The terms and conditions of the policy has a general exclusion which says theres no cover 
wherean estimate of advisors costs of acting for you is more than the amount in dispute. 
A proportionality clause is common in legal expenses insurance policies and I dont consider 
it to be unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to 
bear the cost if advised they will recover less than the amount theyd pay in legal costs. And 
we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
After pursuing the claim for some time, the solicitors reported to Amtrust in early 2021 that in 
their opinion the claim was no longer proportionate to pursue. They said the value of the land 
in dispute was marginal and their costs were going to exceed this. Based on this advice, 
Amtrust withdrew funding as the policy terms and conditions were no longer met. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws position that they were left without further cover after engaging 
with their neighbour for some time. But I understand they were able to bring the dispute to a 
conclusion themselves. Whilst I do understand their upset, I cant fairly say Amtrust acted 
unreasonably by applying the policy terms here. 
Mr and Mrs W say the solicitors shouldve known from the outset that proportionate costs 
wouldnt bring this claim to a conclusion. Its not clear whether Mr and Mrs W are suggesting 
that cover should never have been granted in the first place due to proportionality. If thats 
the case, then I dont think I can fairly say Amtrust couldve known the claim would 
subsequently become disproportionate and that it wouldve been fair for them to decline 
cover on this basis from the outset.
If Mr and Mrs W are implying that the solicitors shouldve done something differently in the 
running of their claim, then this isnt something I can comment on and this would need to be 
raised with the solicitors directly  if they havent already. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman