DRN-3985780
The complaint
Mr C complains that his bank, Santander UK Plc (Santander) has refused to refund the 
money he has lost following him falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr C was looking to make an additional income and his friend suggested he 
become involved in an investment he had made a profit from. Mr C showed interest to his 
friend and was later contacted by the company TradeWiz and Traders School Academy (X) 
offering an investment opportunity.
Mr C has explained he was able to access his trading account via a website link given to him 
by X. X helped Mr C navigate the website after having him download the screen sharing 
application AnyDesk, and he could see he had made a profit on his first deposit. 
X built Mr Cs confidence and explained he couldnt make a withdrawal from the investment 
for six months. When Mr C spoke to his friend, he was told that he had also been told the 
same but had been allowed to make a test withdrawal that had worked. This information 
helped to build Mr Cs confidence further that the investment was genuine.
After some time, the contact Mr C was speaking with and had built his confidence at X 
explained she was taking extended leave due to personal reasons and Mr C was allocated a 
new contact to help him with his investments. 
Mr C was not comfortable with the new person. Mr Cs friend had also started to make a loss 
on his investments, so Mr C decided to withdraw his funds. X told Mr C that he would have 
to make a further payment before he could make a withdrawal but when Mr C tried to contact 
X to process the withdrawal, he did not receive a response and realised he had likely fallen 
victim to a scam.
Mr C made the following payments into the scam:
Date Merchant Amount Payment Method
23 December 2021 International Budapest finscholl.co £424.91 Credit Card
5 January 2022 International Budapest finscholl.co £629.72 Credit Card
3 February 2022 International Budapest finscholl.co £1,670.51 Credit Card
26 February 2022 International Budapest finscholl.co £418.95 Debit Card
Mr C has been unable to recover any of the payments he made in relation to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed, he said Santander should have done more to protect him from the scam and is 
therefore responsible for his loss.
As Mr C disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr C has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr C and Santander sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Santander should refund the money Mr C lost to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr C made
Mr C made payments to the scam via both his credit card and his debit card.
When payments are made by card the only recovery option Santander has is to request a 
chargeback. 
Santander are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Mastercard. 
And whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally think its good practice to raise one
where there is a reasonable prospect of success. Our service has clarified the position with
Mastercard themselves and theyve confirmed there are very limited options for payments
that have gone to any type of investment. The only possible avenue for success is if funds
arent credited from the card to the investment account. That isnt the argument here.
Being the victim of an alleged scam isnt something the Mastercard chargeback scheme
provides dispute resolution options for. So, taking all of this into consideration I think 
Santander acted reasonably by not attempting to raise a chargeback for the payments Mr C 
made from either of his cards.
I have also considered whether Santander is required to refund the payments Mr C made 
under section 75 of the consumer credit act. But I dont think it is. As Mr C had an agreement 
with X but he made payments to a separate payee International Budapest Finscholl.co. As 
the businesses are different this breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain that must exist for 
a section 75 claim to be successful. 
Should Santander have reasonably prevented the payments Mr C made?
It has been accepted that Mr C authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Santander, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr C is 
responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty 
to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on 
large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Santander should have been aware of the scam and stepped 
in to prevent the payments from being made.
While Mr C was making payments to a new payee It would not be reasonable for me to 
suggest that Santanders fraud prevention systems should be triggered every time one of its 
customers makes payments to a new business, especially when that business appears to be 
legitimate.
The payments Mr C was making were also not significantly high and were spaced out over 
several weeks. So overall I dont think its unreasonable that none of the payments made via 
Mr Cs credit or debit cards triggered Santanders fraud prevention systems.As Santanders fraud prevention systems were not triggered by the payments Mr C made 
into the scam I dont think Santander missed an opportunity to prevent the scam from taking 
place, and it is therefore not responsible for Mr Cs loss.
 
In addition to Mr Cs other comments, he has explained that he attempted to make the fourth 
payment of £418.95 via his credit card but was unable to process it. He says that its clear 
Santander were aware of an issue at this stage and should have done more to prevent his 
loss. 
I dont agree. The credit card and debit card systems at Santander are understandably 
separate systems and payments fail to be processed for a variety of reasons. As explained 
above, I would not expect the payment Mr C made on his debit card to trigger Santanders 
fraud prevention systems and therefore its not responsible for the loss of Mr Cs funds.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman