DRN-3473661
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Lendable Ltd was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In August 2021 Lendable provided Mr V with a loan of £5,000 repayable over 24 months. 
The monthly repayments were £293.08. After he struggled to repay the loan, Lendable put in 
place a reduced repayment plan.
Later Mr V complained that Lendable hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to him. 
He thought it should have seen that he had an issue with gambling.
Lendable looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the 
loan was affordable. It said there was no indication of a gambling problem when he made his 
application for a loan.
Mr V referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didnt think the 
checks carried out by Lendable before lending were proportionate. 
As Lendable didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Vs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr V would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr V wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Vs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr V undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr V. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint,
Lendable has provided evidence to show that before lending it carried out various checks. 
Mr V told it his monthly income was £1,606. Lendable said it verified this online with a credit 
bureau to check it matched the amount paid into Mr Vs bank account. 
It also carried out a credit search. That showed Mr V was managing his accounts well with 
no defaults or arrears in the 12 months before he made this application. He owed a total of 
£1,047 according to the credit search. Lendable calculated that with its new loan Mr V would 
be spending around 25% of his income servicing his debts, leaving the balance for living and 
non-discretionary expenses.
Mr V was entering into a significant commitment with Lendable. He would need to make 
monthly repayments of £293.08 for a period of two years. So I would expect that Lendable 
would have wanted to gather at least some information about Mr Vs normal living costs 
before it agreed to lend to him. I dont think it was enough to simply look at Mr Vs income, 
and his credit commitments. I think it would have been proportionate for Lendable to have 
found out more about Mr Vs expenditure so it could consider how much disposable income 
he would actually have. This is so it could be sure that Mr V was able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
Mr V has provided us with a bank statement from the month before the loan was granted. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided within this statement. Having done so, I can see that Mr V had taken out a loan of £10,000 shortly before he applied for this one. 
This loan had not shown up on the credit search that Lendable carried out. I think on seeing 
this, Lendable ought to have had concerns about Mr Vs finances and the likelihood that he 
had become reliant on short term credit and was having problems with his finances. This 
conclusion is supported by transactions on Mr Vs statements relating to gambling sites and 
involving large amounts. 
Mr V says he had a serious gambling problem at the time he applied for this loan and the 
one that he obtained shortly before. He has pointed to this as the reason why he was 
requesting such a lot of short-term credit in a short space of time. I think if Lendable had 
carried out further checks, it would have seen that Mr V was unlikely to have been able to 
repay this loan without borrowing further and experiencing further financial difficulty. So, it 
follows I think Lendable was wrong to give Mr V this loan. 
Ive also thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Mr V has had the benefit of the loan. But as the loan should not have been given to him, 
he should not have to pay interest or charges on what he borrowed. So, I direct Lendable 
to:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan and treat all the payments Mr V 
has made as payments towards the capital amount of £5,000.
if reworking Mr Vs loan account results in him having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then Lendable should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date of settlement.
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Lendable should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr V.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to deduct tax from this interest. Lendable 
should give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Vs complaint and require Lendable Ltd to put 
things right for Mr V as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman