DRN-3187170
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mulberry Wealth Management Limited (Mulberry) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer the benefits from his defined benefits (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension (PP). 
Mr C is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mr C.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs previous employer announced it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a PP arrangement. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter giving them the 
option to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer 
their benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and 
was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
As Mr C was concerned about what that announcement meant for the security of his 
pension, he contacted Mulberry for advice and met with its adviser in December 2017. 
Mulberry gathered information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives and carried out an 
assessment of his attitude to risk, which it said was balanced. 
In January 2018 Mulberry advised Mr C to transfer his BSPS to a PP, as it said this would 
allow him to achieve his objectives of having more control over his pension as he lacked 
faith in his employers ability to manage and fund the scheme and any BSPS2, having more 
flexibility to choose his income in retirement and better death benefits. It also said the 
estimated benefits of his DB scheme werent enough to maintain his standard of living in 
retirement and that the PP would achieve greater capital growth than the guarantees it 
offered. 
At the time of the advice, Mr C was aged 24 and living with his partner. He lived in a property 
he owned, which was worth around £144,000 and had an outstanding mortgage of 
£129,000. And he owned an additional property worth £98,000 with a mortgage of £86,000. 
The fact find noted that he was expecting to sell his second property shortly, giving him 
savings of around £16,000. It also said he had a £10,000 car finance loan he was repaying 
at £165 per month. And that he was working full time, earning £44,633 per year.
Mr C had a preserved final salary pension that was projected to pay a pension of £5,086 
from age 65. Prior to the transfer it had a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of £43,368. And 
his desired retirement age was noted as being from 58 onwards. Mr C also had a defined 
contribution pension (DC) through his employer, that he started contributing to in 2017, 
which had death in service benefits noted as being four times his salary. 
Mr C accepted Mulberrys advice, so his benefits in the BSPS were transferred to his new 
PP.
In 2020, Mr C complained to Mulberry that its advice was unsuitable, as he ought to have 
been advised to transfer his DB scheme to BSPS2 (which was expected to go ahead) or the 
PPF, and that hes been caused a financial loss as a result. 
In response Mulberry said, in summary, that it couldnt have advised Mr C to opt into the 
BSPS2 as his transfer value expired before the consultation process for it completed, he 
wasnt entitled to another for 12 months and, in any case, it wasnt clear at the time of the 
advice if the BSPS2 would go ahead. It also said the big driver for Mr C was that he didnt 
trust the BSPS2 not to fall into the PPF. And that hed already signed the BSPS discharge 
form before meeting with it, suggesting significant commitment to transfer from this. It said 
that if Mr C had opted to move to the BSPS2, and it didnt go ahead, he wouldve moved with 
his scheme to the PPF. And Mr C was concerned about the lower escalations applicable to 
his pension in payment under the PPF and the BSPS2.  
Mulberry said it exercised reasonable care and skill in advising Mr C, who made an informed 
decision after having time to consider his options without pressure. It said it clearly explained 
the risks and guarantees Mr C was giving up, his options and why the transfer was suitable. 
And that it wasnt required to guarantee the transfer was suitable for him. It said Mr C had 
potentially 40 years until retirement, which meant he had a strong desire to transfer and take 
some risks with a view to achieving higher returns. It also said that during the annual review 
with Mr C in 2019 he again expressed such a desire and a further risk profile questionnaire 
resulted in amending his risk profile from balanced to moderate to adventurous. 
Mulberry also said it used an actuary to conduct a loss assessment in January 2021, which 
shows Mr C hadnt lost out by transferring his benefits in his DB scheme. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and upheld it. He didnt think Mulberry 
had demonstrated that transferring Mr Cs OPS to a PP was in his best interests, as he 
thought Mr C was likely to be worse off in retirement. And he wasnt persuaded Mr C had 
any genuine retirement objectives that needed to be addressed at the time rather than 
nearer to retirement. Overall, our Investigator thought Mr C shouldve been advised to opt 
into the BSPS2, the details of which were known at the time of the advice. He recommended 
that Mulberry compensate Mr C for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB scheme, 
based on him opting to join the BSPS2. And he said that while Mulberry said Mr C hasnt lost 
out, it should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators updated pension 
review guidance. He also said Mulberry should pay Mr C £350 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him.
While Mr C accepted our Investigators opinion, Mulberry didnt agree. It added, in summary, 
that the Investigator had assessed the case on the wrong basis. It said its adviser was 
simply required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for Mr C, rather 
than guaranteeing the transfer would be in his best interests. Mulberry also said the discount 
rate our Investigator used wasnt relevant and neither were the critical yields, because Mr C 
didnt want to take an annuity; he wanted flexibility.
Mulberry said Mr C made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer. And it 
maintained that as the BSPS2 wasnt a sure thing it wasnt an option at the time of the 
advice. Mulberry also thought Mr C wouldve gone on to transfer in any event. And it said 
that, in any case, its loss assessment shows Mr Cs better off as a result of its advice.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.I let Mr C know I dont intend to tell Mulberry pay him compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, as I think that any impact on him will have been limited given hes a 
significant number of years away from retirement. In response, Mr C said he checks his 
pension most days and the poor performance is causing him stress and anxiety, impacting 
his sleep, as hes worrying about the stability of his finances in retirement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have made detailed submissions and, while Ive carefully considered these, I 
only intend to address what I think is key to reaching my decision. 
In doing so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Mulberry's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Mulberry says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr C. I agree that under the COBS Mulberry was required to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr C was suitable for him 
(COBS 9.2.1). However, additional regulations apply to advising on transferring out of DB 
schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if 
it could clearly demonstrate the transfer was in the customers best interests (COBS 19.1.6) 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons as the Investigator.
Financial viability
As required by the regulator, Mulberry carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) 
showing how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). Although Mulberry based its analysis on the pension available to Mr C through the BSPS2, it 
has argued that as the BSPS2 may not have gone ahead the only real comparison it could 
provide was with the benefits available to Mr C through the PPF. But I think Mulberry 
overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr C had received his time to choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided; 
indeed, Mulberry provided these figures in the recommendation letter. Of course, its 
possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think it was important that Mr C was made 
aware of the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 so that he was able to make an 
informed decision. 
In the information from the time Mr Cs desired retirement age was noted as being from 58 
onwards. And the TVAS said the critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits from the 
OPS at age 65 was 5% per year if he took a full pension and 4.44% if he took tax free cash 
(TFC) and a reduced pension. At age 58 it was 5.46% if he took the full benefits and 4.85% if 
he took TFC and a reduced pension. However, I note that Mulberry quoted lower critical 
yield figures at age 58 in the recommendation letter  it appears to have mistakenly used the 
hurdle rates at age 65, based on what Ive seen in the TVAS.
The critical yield required to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was 
quoted as 4.74% per year if Mr C took a full pension and 4.57% if he took TFC and a 
reduced pension. Alternatively it was 5.38% at 58 if he took the full benefits and 5.22% if he 
took TFC and a reduced pension.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. While I 
recognise businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and is 4.7% per year for 39 years to Mr Cs scheme 
retirement age. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
In the suitability report Mulberry said there was a 5.87% average rolling rate of return based 
on Mr Cs balanced risk profile. But I think that level of growth over such a long period of 
time was very optimistic. And it doesnt appear to take account of charges or be specific to 
the PP it was recommending Mr C transfer his DB benefits to. Instead, I can see that the 
illustration for his PP assumed the middle growth rate to be 2.2% per annum after taking 
account of future inflation of 2.5% per year, and 1.1% after deduction of all charges. The 
impact of this meant that the value of Mr Cs fund at age 60 after taking account of all 
charges and inflation was projected to be £64,300. This was substantially less than the value 
of the fund the TVAS said Mr C would need in order to purchase an annuity providing 
comparable benefits to the BSPS2, which was £146,960.01 at age 58 and £163,591.40 at 
age 65.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
attitude to risk  which he doesnt dispute was balanced at the time  and the term to 
retirement. There would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve the same level of benefits outside the scheme. The critical yields 
were all either close to, or higher than, the discount rate, the regulators middle projection 
rate and the middle growth rate on the PP illustration. So, I think the opportunity for Mr C to 
improve on the benefits provided by the PPF and the BSPS2 at age 65 was limited if he 
transferred to a PP, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And if Mr C retired 
early, as per his wish at age 58, I think he was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall 
value.
Mulberry says its unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account wasnt required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a PP by using reasonable assumptions. So, 
businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable 
assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with 
the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is 
this combination, along with Mr Cs attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed 
unlikely be better off in retirement if he transferred to a PP.
Ive considered Mulberrys comments about reliance on the critical yield and that it has said 
this assumes Mr C would be acquiring an annuity, which wasnt contemplated here. But the 
regulator required it to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be 
achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So it needed to provide an analysis based 
on the critical yield. And I do think its a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont 
think Mr C could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular 
income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least 30 years. Its entirely 
possible that Mr C would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he 
could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
Mulberry has provided financial plans which show cashflow models, and Ive considered 
these along with the other documents it has provided. The two models Ive seen are based 
on Mr C taking the same income the BSPS2 wouldve provided him with at age 58 and age 
65. While each model demonstrates that Mr C would be left with a sum in excess of £89,000 
at age 99, Im mindful that all of the models are based on an assumed growth rate in excess 
of 5.4% after accounting for inflation. And I dont think that level of sustained growth can 
reasonably be expected over such a long time. Furthermore, Mulberry hasnt provided any 
stress test models showing the impact of poor returns or market instability over time and 
how that might impact Mr Cs income or remaining fund. So, Im not necessarily persuaded 
that the cashflow models demonstrate Mr C would be better off by transferring out. 
Given Mr C was unlikely to exceed the retirement benefits he wouldve been entitled to 
under the BSPS2 by transferring to a personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a 
transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the 
only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Mulberry has argued in this case. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Cs best interests, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
The suitability report said one of Mr Cs objectives was having the option to withdraw his 
pension funds as and when needed. It's evident Mr C couldnt take his DB scheme benefits 
flexibly. Although he could choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, he had to 
take those benefits at the same time. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr C had any concrete retirement plans to really 
know whether he required flexibility in retirement or not. As Ive said above, Mr Cs 
retirement was likely to be at least 30 years away, so he didnt know whether hed want or 
need access to a lump sum before his normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds 
invested until a later date. I say this because theres no pressing need recorded in any of the 
documents Mulberry has provided, just a vague wish for flexibility in case he later wants it. I 
think if asked, most people would say flexibility is desirable, but that doesnt mean it was a 
genuine objective for Mr C at the time. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr C had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Thats because theres no calculation of his retirement income needs, more likely 
than not because, as I say, it was still many years until Mr C could retire. And I note that 
Mulberrys cashflow models were based on Mr C taking a steady income in line with what he 
was entitled to through the BSPS2.
Furthermore, at age 65, if Mr C opted into the BSPS2, he could take a pension of around 
£5,086 per year. And his state pension of around £9,000 per year would become payable at 
age 68. There wasnt any known need for the TFC, as Mr Cs mortgage and loan would most 
likely be repaid by this point. And Mr C had retirement funds that would be building up over 
the next 30 years, through his DC scheme. The fact-find says Mr C and his employer were 
contributing 16% of his monthly salary to this, which is around £453 per month. This means 
that, even without taking investment growth into account, his DC pension would be worth in 
the region of £160,000 at age 65. So I think Mr C would have likely had a significant DC 
pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or take additional 
lump sums. So, I dont think he would have had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting 
into the BSPS2.
Overall, as Mr C had around 30 years before he could think about accessing his pension, I 
think it was too soon for him to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme completely, particularly as Mr C had the option of joining the BSPS2. So, I dont 
think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits now 
when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr C later had reason to 
transfer out of the BSPS2 he could have done so closer to retirement. So, I dont think it was 
in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt 
actually need.
Death benefits 
At the time of the advice, Mulberry mentioned different death benefits as a benefit of 
transferring. But this doesnt seem to have been a concern or genuine objective of Mr Cs. 
This is because, while he had a partner, it was noted that he had sufficient cover in place 
should death occur due to his death in service benefit through his DC pension.
While the death benefits in Mr Cs existing scheme were potentially of use to him in future, 
the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So Mulberry should not have 
encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a PP over his 
security in retirement. And in any event, if investment returns were poor or Mr C lived a long 
life there may not have been a large sum to pass on when he died.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
The suitability report said one of Mr Cs objectives was taking control of his pension savings. 
And its clear that Mr C, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. He was worried his pension would end up in the PPF, which hed heard negative 
things about, and said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. So I recognise its 
possible Mr C was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had 
about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it was Mulberrys 
obligation to give him an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going to be going ahead if the funding criteria was met. And given the advice took the 
benefits available to Mr C through the BSPS2 into account, I think this shouldve alleviated 
Mr Cs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Mulberry 
shouldve reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. Mr C was unlikely to be able to exceed the income available to him through the PPF 
by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and wasnt subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that 
these concerns shouldve led to Mulberry recommending Mr C transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.  
Summary 
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a PP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But Mulberry wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income through either the BSPS2 or the PPF. By 
transferring, Mr C was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were 
no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this, particularly 
when Mr C was so far away from his intended retirement age. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a PP now when he had the 
opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
Mr C couldnt remain in his existing scheme; he had until 22 December 2017 to choose to 
whether to opt into the BSPS2. Mulberry didnt give Mr C its advice until the suitability report 
dated 13 January 2018. And by this time, Mr C had lost the chance to opt into the BSPS2. 
Mulberry hasnt said that it couldnt have given Mr C advice before the deadline for him to 
choose to opt into the BSPS2, despite having the opportunity to comment on this given our 
Investigator said it ought to have recommended BSPS2 to Mr C. And I think it had everything 
it needed to do so given it had his completed fact find, risk profile information and TVAS by 
13 December 2022. Mulberry was aware, or ought reasonably to have been, of the deadline 
of 22 December 2017 for opting into the BSPS2. And I think it was incumbent on Mulberry to 
ensure it was able to provide the advice to Mr C before the deadline for doing to had passed. 
In which case, I think Mulberry shouldve been in a position to give its recommendation to 
Mr C in time to meet the deadline. 
And, overall, I think Mulberry shouldve advised Mr C to join the BSPS2. I appreciate the 
BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it was clear to all 
parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr C most likely had over 30 years before he 
expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, I 
dont think it wouldve been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable 
reduction for early retirement. Also, if Mr C were to get married in future, the pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump 
sum was taken at retirement (if Mr C chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Mulberry 
shouldve advised Mr C to opt into the BSPS2. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to.
Mulberry says that regardless of the advice given, Mr C made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. And it believes Mr C wouldve transferred in any event.
I accept that Mulberry disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr C, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately Mulberry advised    
Mr C to transfer out, and I think he relied on that advice. And Im not persuaded that Mr C 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme against its advice. I say this because 
he was an inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for all of his retirement provision at that time, albeit he still had time to invest and 
grow other pension funds. So, if Mulberry had provided Mr C with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the PPF were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Mulberry 
had explained that Mr C could opt into the BSPS2 and that he was still unlikely to exceed his 
PPF benefits through a PP, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think 
Mr C would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme against Mulberrys advice. 
In light of the above, I think Mulberry should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. While 
Mulberrys said it has already done a loss calculation, which it says shows Mr C is better off, 
it didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C was entitled to bring his complaint to our service, and 
given Im upholding it for the above reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for Mulberry to 
undertake an up to date redress calculation in the way Ive set out below.
Having taken into account Mr Cs comments, I think Mulberry should also pay him £200 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by this matter. I 
think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. I say this because I think it 
takes into account the stress and anxiety hes been caused by this matter, while also bearing 
in mind it hasnt impacted his immediate plans as hes a significant number of years from 
retirement. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Mulberry to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Mulberrys unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
We previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. Mr C has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. And Im 
satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, 
will provide fair redress for Mr C.
Mulberry must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Mulberry may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Mulberry receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Mulberry to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Mulberry to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Mulberry should also pay Mr C £200 for distress and convenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
Mulberry pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Mulberry 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman