DRN-2937054
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy at the explanation given by Prudential Assurance Company Limited about 
why a transfer value of his pension fund in 2020 was lower than hed been quoted in 2017.
What happened
Mr C has a deferred annuity policy which resulted from his membership of a defined benefit 
(final salary) occupational pension scheme (OPS), which he left in 1996. When his OPS was 
wound up, the scheme trustees purchased benefits matching his entitlement from Prudential. 
So his policy provides him with a guaranteed income at retirement in line with the benefits 
from his OPS. 
Periodically since 2011 Mr C has requested a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his 
pension, although so far he hasnt actually transferred.  In January 2016 the value was given 
as just under £103,459. Mr C asked for another CETV in August 2017 which at that time was 
given as just over £125,629. But in January 2020 when he requested his sixth CETV the 
value was given as just under £96,249 which is 23% lower than the previous quote. Mr C 
wasnt happy the valuation appeared to have fallen and wanted to know what Prudential was 
doing to recoup the loss. 
Prudential explained the valuations depend on a number of factors such as mortality and 
there was a major revaluation in 2019. But they were satisfied the figures Mr C had been 
given were correct. So Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He explained the 
method of calculating the CETV was commercially sensitive but he was satisfied it had been 
done in line with the relevant rules and guidance so he couldnt say Prudential had done 
something wrong. 
Mr C still felt he hadnt received a satisfactory answer about why the value had fallen when 
his other investments had recovered after the impacts of Brexit and the pandemic. He feels 
hes lost in excess of £30,000. So he asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why. 
It seems this complaint has arisen from a fundamental misunderstanding by Mr C of how his 
policy works. I think the increase in valuations from January 2016 to August 2017 led him to 
assume that his policy valuation was based on investment performance and would continue 
to rise over time if effectively managed. But that may not be the case as Mr C doesnt have 
his own individual pot of money held with Prudential. 
When Mr Cs OPS was wound up, the trustees purchased individual policies for the scheme 
members which aimed to match the benefits theyd be entitled to if theyd remained deferred 
members of the OPS. A CETV shouldnt be viewed as a fund valuation statement. Its 
calculated by working out the lump sum that will be required to provide an equivalent pension 
to the scheme pension at Mr Cs retirement age. This lump sum is then reduced (discounted) 
depending upon how far the member is from retirement. The calculation methodology hasnt 
been disclosed as its commercially sensitive, but the scheme will make various assumptions 
regarding investment growth rates, as well as the age profile of the scheme membership, 
benefits promised, rates of inflation and scheme liabilities. The scheme funding position may 
also be taken into account and this could be affected by recent transfers out and the 
performance of the scheme's underlying investment assets. 
There is no guarantee a CETV will be higher in the future than the most recent figure, which is 
why a CETV is only guaranteed for a period of time, usually three months after which it has 
to be requoted. The calculations no doubt became more complex due to the impact of 
market volatility following the pandemic. Ive listened to the discussion Mr C had with our 
investigator and he clearly understands the relationship between the cost of providing 
defined pension benefits and rising life expectancy but thats only one of the factors which a 
CETV calculation will involve. For example predicted future rises in inflation generally cause 
CETVs to fall. 
Pension freedoms legislation has led increasing number of people to transfer away from 
defined benefit schemes meaning their pension is under their own control and they can use 
the money as they wish. But this involves giving up valuable guaranteed benefits and 
becoming dependent on investment performance which leaves them at risk of the fund being 
depleted. Mr C told the investigator he thought Prudential was trying to save money by 
reducing the CETV, so hed receive less. But providers may enhance CETVs to encourage 
members to transfer, so reducing their ongoing liabilities. Or conversely if a high number of 
members choose to leave a scheme CETVs may be reduced to protect the interests of the 
remaining members. 
As the investigator said, Mr C may find a current CETV to be lower or higher than the ones 
hes received previously. But he should be reassured that hes actually lost nothing at all, as 
he remains entitled to those guaranteed benefits unless he transfers, regardless of any 
external factors which may affect investment performance. Which is why the regulators 
position is that a transfer out of a defined benefit pension scheme is rarely in a consumers 
best interests. 
While I cant provide Mr C with the information hed like which is an exact explanation of why 
the CETV in 2020 was lower than 2017, Ive seen nothing to suggest Prudential has done 
something wrong or treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman