DRN-4362020
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as K, complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) made errors 
and caused delays when opening its bank account.
What happened
In May 2023, K applied to BoS for a bank account. During June, the bank requested a copy 
of Ks constitution, which K then provided, and there was an exchange of phone calls about 
the document. The bank account was opened on 19 June, and debit and authentication 
cards were then issued. 
Two days later, checks by the bank detected a potential security issue, which lead BoS to 
block Ks account. After further contact between the bank and K, the issue was resolved and 
BoS unblocked the account. However, as a result of these events, the existing cards were 
cancelled and new cards were issued.
K complained to BoS about the banks handling of the document request and about the 
blocking and unblocking of the account. The bank apologised for initially providing incorrect 
information about the supporting documentation needed for the application, and for poor 
communications during the phone calls about the account block. However, BoS said no error 
had occurred regarding the account block itself, and the matter had been cleared up the 
same day.
Unhappy with the banks response, K referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and concluded that BoS didnt need to do anything 
further. She gave these reasons, in summary:
When customers apply for an account, theyre made aware that the service level 
agreement is for the account to be open six weeks after all the required information is 
received. Ks account was successfully opened within this timescale.
The banks legal and regulatory obligations allow it to review its customers accounts 
throughout the life of the account, and to restrict accounts. The investigator was 
satisfied that BoS made no error when it restricted Ks account on 21 June 2023, 
while carrying out further checks, and then removed the restriction later the same 
day.
The checks, account blockage and its release happened within the banks timescale 
for account opening.
BoS acknowledged its service failings regarding the information about the supporting 
documentation and the time required on the phone when the account was blocked. 
The investigator thought the banks apology was enough in the circumstances.
K disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Its representative said the bank took months 
to open the account, and after the block it wasnt released for a week or more. As a result, K 
had to hold a number of meetings to arrange payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint K and its representative, but Ive reached the same conclusions as 
the investigator, and for largely the same reasons.
Ks representative, who is an officer of the charity, has said that the banks actions caused 
him personal inconvenience and distress. But the current complaint is by K, and Im afraid 
that in this decision I can only consider the effect of these events on the charity itself.
The account opening
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that BoS opened Ks account within the time that 
the bank promised. There were some difficulties establishing what documents were needed 
from K, and the bank has acknowledged that it initially provided incorrect information. BoS 
has apologised and said it should have provided better service, and I think thats a fair and 
sufficient response. 
The account block and release
Almost immediately after the account was opened, a further check led the bank to have 
security concerns and the account was then blocked. From the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied the matter was cleared up and the account was unblocked on the same day. 
I agree with the investigator that the block resulted from the bank pursuing its legal and 
regulatory obligations, so I dont think BoS acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I can understand that it was irritating for K to have its first debit and authentication cards 
cancelled and to receive replacements. But I havent seen any evidence showing that K 
suffered any loss or significant disruption to its operations as a result. In any event, the 
cancellation of the cards was a consequence of the security concern and, as Ive said above, 
I dont think BoS acted unfairly or unreasonably in this regard.
BoS has apologised for the time Ks representative had to spend on the phone on the day 
the account was blocked, and I think thats a fair and sufficient response.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has done enough to settle this complaint and 
doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman