DRN-2869175
The complaint
Mr B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account in December 2007.
The Advantage gold account was later rebranded as a Select Platinum account in 2015, 
which is seen as being a continuation of the previous packaged account.
Mr B says that he was led to believe that the only way he could get an overdraft was by 
taking out the fee-paying Advantage Gold packaged bank account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. Mr B disagreed with this, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
as is the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based 
on everything that is available. And having considered everything that Mr B and NatWest 
have been able to provide, I am unable to say that its more likely than not that the 
Advantage Gold account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr B says that he was told by NatWest over the phone that he had to open an Advantage 
Gold account if he wanted an overdraft. However, unfortunately, there is no record that a 
telephone conversation took place. Conversely, NatWests records show that Mr B applied 
for the account online, and Mr B then attended branch a couple of days later to sign the 
application papers. Therefore NatWest says that Mr B chose the Advantage Gold account, 
rather than it being the case that he was advised to take it out.
At the time that Mr B took out the Advantage Gold account, I can see that it offered lower 
rates of interest on mortgages, loans and overdrafts. Therefore, I think its just as likely, if not 
more so, that Mr B applied for the Advantage Gold account because of the benefits it offered 
 such as a cheaper overdraft (compared to a standard current account)  rather than 
because he was incorrectly told it was the only way to get an overdraft. I say this especially 
as Mr B applied for the account himself online. I should also add that from looking at 
historical versions of NatWests website, Mr B wouldve been able to see, when applying for 
the account, the full range of accounts that NatWest offered (both fee-free and fee-paying). 
And the website explains that overdrafts are available on fee-free accounts, apart from the 
Step account  which he already had.
Therefore, based on the limited evidence that is available, Im unable to say that its likely 
that NatWest had misled Mr B into taking out the Advantage Gold account. I accept that Mr 
B mayve incorrectly thought that he had to have an Advantage Gold account in order to 
have an overdraft, or that having it might help his chances of getting an overdraft. But there 
is not enough evidence for me to say that this was most likely caused by the actions of 
NatWest.
Based on what I have seen, I think the account was provided on a non-advised basis. I say 
this as it was applied for online, and I cant see anything to suggest that NatWest assessed 
Mr Bs circumstances or recommended the Advantage Gold account because it met Mr Bs 
insurance needs. 
This means that NatWest was not obliged to check if the account was right for Mr B. But it 
was required to provide him with important information about the account, so he could 
decide for himself whether it was worth taking out.
From what I have seen, I think it was likely made clear that the account cost £12 per month. 
And I think it was likely to have been made clear that it included benefits such as worldwide 
travel insurance, commission free travel money, hotel discounts, mobile phone insurance, ID 
theft cover, accidental death cover, alongside discounts on other products. 
I accept that Mr B might not have been given all of the important information about the 
account during the sales process. However, based on what he has said about his 
circumstances, Ive not seen anything that mightve put him off agreeing to the account, had 
he been given more information about it.
For example, Mr B says that he had a pre-existing medical condition. But Mr B says that he 
was not relying on the Advantage Gold travel cover anyway, as he took out separate 
insurance for this. And I can see that Mr B was sent various documents over the years he 
held the account, reminding him of the benefits and key exclusions that applied to those 
benefits and he still chose to keep the account. Therefore, I dont think its likely that he 
wouldve been put off from taking out the account, had NatWest given him even more 
information about the account and associated benefits when he applied for it.
Finally, Mr B has commented about the conversation he had with NatWest, in which he 
thought it was suspicious that NatWest was suggesting he downgrade his account. Mr B 
suggests that the idea to downgrade was suggested so that evidence of his packaged 
account would be removed from NatWests systems.
Ive listened to this call, and I dont think it was suspicious or that NatWest was acting 
unreasonably. I say this because our service regularly deals with complaints about packaged 
accounts that have recently been downgraded during, or just prior to, the complaints 
process. And the fact the account has recently been downgraded rarely, if ever, affects the 
businesss ability to provide evidence about that account.
Furthermore, having listened to the call, I think NatWest was simply trying to help Mr B. In 
the call it was explained that the regulator required banks to offer support to those 
experiencing financial difficulties - which Mr B confirmed he had been due to a health 
condition leaving him being unable to work. In the call it was pointed out he was paying £18 
per month for his Select Platinum account. And the member of staff suggested he check how 
much adding breakdown cover to his car insurance would cost, and if this worked out 
cheaper than the cost of the Select Platinum, he could downgrade the account to save some 
money.
As such, I think that what NatWest said in this call was reasonable. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Thomas WhiteOmbudsman