DRN-2939938
The complaint
Mr W complains that the car he acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with 
FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr W attended a dealership to enquire about a special limited-edition 
model of a particular prestige car. The car came with a certain paint finish. Following 
discussions Mr W ordered the car, which was delivered in April 2019. Mr W financed the 
car by part exchanging his car and financing the remainder via a two-year hire purchase 
agreement. At the end of the two years Mr W was required to pay a lump sum if he wished 
to keep the car.
The car was delivered to the supplying dealer with four miles recorded on the odometer. 
Mr W attended the dealership to view the car and noticed some imperfections in the cars 
paintwork. Mr W says there was also wear on the tyres that was unexpected for a car that 
had had such limited use. The supplying dealer said the car had been through a pre-
delivery inspection. Mr W didnt, at that stage, take the car from the dealership.
Mr W arranged for the car to have a paint protection film (PPF) applied to protect 
the paintwork and it was transported to another garage specialising in this 
application.
Mr W says he was informed by that garage that it had noticed marks on the cars 
paintwork, in particular around the doors and on the door handles, when applying the 
film. Mr W contacted the supplying dealer who inspected the car and saw the marks. 
Contact was made with cars manufacturer UK headquarters.
The manufacturer arranged for the cars paintwork to be inspected and this was 
undertaken in August 2019. The engineer noted marks on the cars doors, boot lid and 
carbon fibre spoiler. They said the damage was due to the PFF and that some of the 
marks were actually in the PFF itself. They recommended the PFF should be removed 
and the car further inspected to see if any other damage had been caused. Mr W was 
unhappy about this report, as he wasnt provided with a full copy, only excerpts. He was 
also concerned that this report hadnt pick up on the cars bumpers being of different 
colours which he had also noticed.
Mr W had the car moved to a second garage for the PFF to be removed. After this had 
been completed, he collected the car to have it inspected at a bodywork garage. This 
garage said the car required a re-spray that would cost around £20,000.
Mr W then arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer and a 
report prepared. The car was inspected by this engineer in September 2019.
The independent engineer reported that, although some of the issues with the paintwork 
were due to the application of the PFF, the majority of the defects had been present 
before the point of supply.
Mr W also had a report on the condition of the tyres undertaken and was told they had 
15% wear at the point of delivery. He says he was later advised by the manufacturer that 
the car had undertaken extensive road and track testing for 65km, with the odometer 
being reset prior to delivery.
In October 2019, Mr W complained to FCA about the quality of the car. He explained that 
he hadnt used the car as he wished to reject it, have the contract unwound and receive 
compensation. FCA asked for it to be allowed to carry out its own inspection of the cars 
paintwork. Mr W refused this request saying that he had already supplied sufficient 
evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
FCA didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint on the grounds that by declining its request to have 
the car examined it hadnt been allowed to investigate whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply or not.
Mr W complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that his complaint 
should be upheld. He said on the evidence that been supplied he didnt think the car 
had been of satisfactory quality due to the defects in the paint work.
Our investigator also said that he didnt think that it would be fair to require FCA to repair 
the car as the agreement was now close to ending. He recommended that the car be 
handed back, Mr W be reimbursed his deposit plus interest, all instalments made after the 
complaint to FCA in October 2019, the costs of the insurance and the cost of the 
inspection. Our investigator also recommended that Mr W be paid £250 compensation by 
FCA for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
However, there were some expenses that our investigator said he didnt think were fair to 
be reimbursed. These were the costs of the application and removal of the PPF, as he 
said adding this had been a choice for Mr W and had caused some damage to the cars 
paintwork. He also didnt think the road tax should be reimbursed, as Mr W could have 
SORN the car and mitigated this loss as it hadnt been using it. Finally, he didnt award Mr 
Ws legal fees as he said legal representation wasnt necessary to bring a complaint to 
this service.
Mr W had also raised some extras that had been offered with the car that he hadnt 
received, such as a trip to a European race track. Our investigator said that, as the car 
was being rejected, it wouldnt be fair for these things to now be provided as they were 
linked to the possession and use of the car.
Mr W, although pleased that his complaint was being upheld, didnt agree with the 
entirety of the suggested settlement. He said that he thought he should be entitled to all 
his payments under the agreement to be reimbursed, as he had raised the fault with the 
car within the first 30 days of the agreement. He also said he thought the compensation 
was too low, taking into account the impact the matter had had on his health. He said 
he thought £2,500 compensation was reasonable. Mr W raised that he thought it would 
be fair to be reimbursed the costs of having the PFF applied and then removed, as he 
had no choice but to remove it to allow for the independent inspection.
FCA disagreed with our investigators view. It said it was unfair to rely on a one-sided 
report. It hadnt been involved in the choice of the independent engineer selected to 
inspect the car and had been denied an opportunity of having the car investigated by 
someone else to ensure this report was accurate.
FCA also said that, as the deposit hadnt been passed on to it, it was unfair to now require it to repay that amount. And asked that account be taken that the application of the PFF 
was in breach of the agreements terms and conditions.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
When reaching my decision I take account of legislation, case law, regulations and 
accepted industry practice, but I am not bound by them when deciding what is a fair 
outcome.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) there is an implied term that when 
goods are supplied the the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law 
says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description 
of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the 
quality of the goods.
Here, the car had been brand new so a reasonable person would have expected it to be 
fault free and that would include the paintwork. I understood from the independent 
engineer commissioned by Mr W to inspect the car, that this particular paintwork was 
highly sensitive and susceptible to marking and that imperfections are pronounced and 
clearly visible. The issue for me was whether there was sufficient evidence that the 
quality of the paintwork at the point of supply hadnt been of a satisfactory quality.
FCA said that it had been prevented from carrying out its own investigation by Mr Ws 
refusal to have the car further inspected. It had also suggested that perhaps Mr W 
wasnt that confident in the report he had had prepared. FCA further said that a court of 
law would have required each party to have their own expert examine the car.
However, this service isnt a court of law, being an alternative dispute resolution service 
and so I wasnt bound by what may or may not be the practice had this been a civil court 
case. Looking at the report prepared by the independent expert on Mr Ws instructions Id 
seen that they appeared to be suitably qualified and experienced. Id not seen anything 
that would lead me to doubt their qualifications. Id also seen that the engineer found 
damage on the car that he considered had ben caused by the application of the PPF, so, I 
thought it was reasonable to say this was a balanced report and not one weighted solely 
in favour of Mr W. Id also seen that the comprehensive report was accompanied by a 
number of photographs showing the faults found. 
I thought it was understandable why Mr W, frustrated by the lack of assistance he 
considered he was receiving and being required to take the car to various garages, felt a 
further inspection was not required. He had not received a copy of the inspection carried 
out on behalf of the manufacturer, and so had lost confidence in the process.
As Mr W had provided a detailed report with photos then I thought FCA could have 
approached its own independent engineer to see if there were any issues that would have 
needed further exploring. So, I thought it could have done some investigating of its own. 
Had FCA raised valid enquiries as to the content of the report then Mr W might have 
agreed to a further inspection. As it was, I thought he could see little justification for it.Looking at the history of the matter and the independent report that had been supplied, I 
thought it was more likely than not that the car had been supplied with faulty paintwork. 
Some of the issues with the paintwork had been identified as occurring at the point of 
manufacture, and some may have arisen when the car was being tested prior to delivery. 
I accepted there was also some damage caused by the PPF being applied. However, I 
thought it was reasonable to say that there wasnt sufficient evidence to reasonably say 
that the cars paintwork had been pristine at the point of supply.
FCA had raised that the application of the PPF was a breach of the agreement and I 
accepted that was correct. In term 6.7 it set out that the car must not be modified in 
anyway without FCAs written consent and I hadnt seen that Mr W raised with FCA about 
the adding of the PPF. However, I didnt think this breach affected the requirement for the 
quality of the car to be satisfactory when it was supplied, and nor did it prevent Mr W from 
seeking redress when it wasnt.
As the car wasnt of satisfactory condition when it had been supplied to Mr W, then I 
needed to consider what was an appropriate remedy. One remedy under the CRA was 
for the retailer or credit provider to undertake the repair of the car. Here that would be for 
the car to be re- sprayed. Id seen that it had been raised on behalf of Mr W that re-
spraying the car would have a detrimental impact on its value, as it was a collectable 
item due to its scarcity. And I accepted that in these circumstances that may be the 
result of a respray, but I also thought that FCA had had an opportunity to offer to have 
the car repaired and hadnt done so. However, as the agreement had now reached its 
maturity, I didnt think repair was an option that needed to be explored. It wasnt 
reasonable to now require the paintwork to be fixed.
As repair wasnt an option, then I thought it would be fair for Mr W to now reject the car 
and for it to be collected at no cost to him. Under the CRA theres provision for a 
consumer to pay for the use they have had of a car. Here, Id seen the car had only really 
been used by Mr W to take it back and forth to the supplying dealer and to the garage. Mr 
W said his use of the car had been completely spoiled and he had stopped using it as he 
handidnt want anything further to happen to the bodywork. Looking at this I thought it 
would be fair for Mr W to be reimbursed all his payments under the agreement. He hadnt 
been able to use the car as hed wished, and he hadnt had any benefit from it.
I also think it was fair he was reimbursed his deposit. When an agreement is ended and 
wound back, as it will be here, then it was usual for any deposit to be returned. I was 
unclear why FCA said this repayment would be an award. Mr W was entitled to reject the 
car and end the agreement and was, therefore, entitled to be put back in the position he 
would have been in had he not taken the agreement out. This meant any payment hed 
made towards the car must be returned to him and FCA were responsible for that 
repayment. It will of course have the car and so would be able to recoup this cost.
I agreed with our investigator regarding the reimbursement of the insurance for the car 
and also the inspection report paid for by Mr W.
I disagreed that the costs of applying and removing the PPF should be reimbursed to Mr 
W. Mr W had chosen to have this added and hadnt obtained the consent of FCA, as he 
should have done. Its application had also caused some damage to the car, though the 
cost of that was unknown. I agreed with our investigator that should FCA wish to pursue 
that, it should do so with the garage that had applied it. But, taking all of this into account, 
I thought it would be unfair to require FCA to reimburse these costs.
I also agreed with the view of our investigator that it would be unfair to require FCA to 
reimburse Mr Ws legal costs for the reasons given and also the road fund licence as he could have taken steps to mitigate that expense.
The final issue for me was the amount of compensation that would be reasonable. I 
appreciated Mr W felt strongly he should be paid significantly more than the £250 that had 
been recommended by our investigator. I appreciated that he had been distressed by the 
events and the length of time this had taken to resolve, but I thought that some of the 
delay had been out of FCAs hands. Mr W had also raised that he felt lied to over the use 
the car had had prior to its delivery, but I hadnt seen any evidence that the dealership had 
been aware of this so I couldnt reasonably say that either FCA or the supplying dealer 
had acted dishonestly.
I was aware that Mr W has had some physical health issues, which he had attributed to 
this matter but, while I accepted this would have exacerbated any health conditions he 
had been suffering from, I thought it was reasonable to be cautious about finding this 
matter had been the sole cause unless I had medical evidence to that effect. So, looking 
at the impact on Mr W, I thought a sum of £500 compensation would be fair and 
reasonable.
So, for the reasons given above, I intended to partially uphold Mr Ws complaint.
FCA has accepted my provisional decision. Mr W has asked that I look again at the 
reimbursement of having the PPF applied and then removed. He says the supplying dealer 
was aware of this being added and had made an offer to reimburse this cost if the defects in 
the paintwork turned out to be a manufacturing fault. Mr W says why would the dealership 
make this offer if the adding of the PPF was a breach of contract. 
Mr W also says that the supplying dealer and and FCA are connected as they are part of the 
same overall group company and are both located at the same address. He says it is 
disingenous to consider them as being two separate entities. 
Mr W has also raised the amount he paid as a deposit as there was an additional £9,500 
which he paid to the supplying dealer in February 2019 and which was held until May 2019 
before being reimbursed. Mr W says that interest on this amount for that period should also 
be reimbursed by FCA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the points raised by Mr W and will respond firstly to Mr Ws view that FCA and 
the supplying dealer are connected and cant reasonably be considered as two separate 
things. While I accept there are links between the two and that there is also physical 
proximity, I dont agree that they are so interconnected that I should treat the supplying 
dealer and FCA as, in effect, being one and the same. I dont think FCAs relationship with 
the supplying dealer is unusual. FCA is a credit company providing finance products for the 
purchase of certain makes of vehicle and so, although in certain circumstances. it may be 
responsible for some things said and done by the supplying dealer it isnt responsible for 
every action of the supplying dealer. 
Mr W has requested that interest is paid on the sum of £9,500 which the supplying dealer 
retained for around three months, that is from the point the car was ordered until shortly after 
it was delivered. But I dont think it would be reasonable to ask FCA to pay interest on this 
amount. Thats because this sum wasnt included in the hire purchase agreement and I 
havent seen any evidence to say that it was a payment that was required by FCA in order to arrange that credit agreement. Looking at the evidence, Ive seen that Mr W was requested 
to pay a deposit of £5,000 by to show his intention to proceed with the purchase of the car. 
Requiring such a payment is a matter for the supplying dealer and FCA has no responsibility 
for that request unless the deposit is then transferred into the agreement to proceed with the 
purchasing of the car which wasnt the case here.
The remaining £4,500 arose from the trade-in price agreed between Mr W and the supplying 
dealer of £38,000 for a car Mr W had. Ive seen that around £33,500 of this amount was then 
used as a deposit for the new car leaving the balance to be repaid to Mr W. This repayment 
was again the responsibility of the supplying dealer and not FCA. FCA wasnt involved in this 
transaction. So, I am not going to ask FCA to add an interest payment for the period of time 
the £9,500 was retained by the supplying dealer.
Ive also looked again at the evidence in respect of the PPF and, although I appreciate this 
will be of disappointment to Mr W, I havent changed my view about FCA not reimbursing 
him the cost of the adding and later removal of the PPF. 
This is because although I accept the supplying dealer appears to have been aware this 
product was being added, I cant reasonably say that this means FCA was aware. The terms 
and conditions of the agreement were clear that written consent from FCA was required 
before any modification could be undertaken to the vehicle. This was Mr Ws responsibility to 
obtain and I dont think it was reasonable for him to rely on the supplying dealer raising no 
objection to him adding this product as a substitute for FCAs express consent. The 
supplying dealer wasnt able to agree to the PPF being added to the vehicle.
Looking at the copy of an email between Mr W and the supplying dealer, I accept the 
dealership had said it would reimburse the cost of removing and re-applying the PPF if the 
cars paintwork was found to have a manufacturing fault. But I dont think I can reasonably 
say this offer should bind FCA since at the point this offer was made, I cant see that FCAs 
view had been sought. Im also aware from the evidence provided, that the PPF caused 
some damage to the cars paintwork though I dont have a figure as to the value of that 
damage. 
In light of the PPF having been added without FCAs consent and that it also caused some, 
though not all, of the damage to the car I dont think its reasonable or fair for FCA to 
reimburse the cost of having this product added and then removed. I am still of the view that 
having this product added was a choice made by Mr W.
Mr W has also provided additional comments on some other aspects of my provisional 
decision that he didnt fully agree with but also acknowledged these wouldnt necessarily 
lead to any changes in the proposed settlement for his complaint. Looking at these areas, 
Im satisfied I have dealt with those issues in my provisional decision, and, on reviewing the 
evidence, I havent changed my view on those matters for the reasons set out above.
Ive seen that FCA has, since the provisional decision, sent Mr W a notice of arrears for the 
outstanding balloon payment. I appreciate this would have caused Mr W frustration and 
concern as the understanding was this would be put on-hold pending his complaint being 
investigated. I think it would have been helpful if FCA had ensured such letters werent 
issued. However, I dont think this episode is sufficient for me to revisit the compensation 
award Ive decided as reasonable and fair here.
I am therefore still partially upholding Mr Ws complaint, and I havent changed my view as to 
what is the fair outcome.   
Putting things rightIm asking FCA to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no expense to Mr W.
Reimburse Mr W his deposit of £33,499.93 together with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund Mr W all his monthly instalments made under the agreement together 
with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr W the insurance cost for the car of £427.45 together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr W the sum of £650 paid to have the car independently 
inspected together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr W £500 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused dealing 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding this 
agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Im asking 
FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no expense to Mr W.
Reimburse Mr W his deposit of £33,499.93 together with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund Mr W all his monthly instalments made under the agreement together 
with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr W the insurance cost for the car of £427.45 together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr W the sum of £650 paid to have the car independently 
inspected together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr W £500 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused dealing 
with the faulty car.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding this 
agreement.
If FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman