DRN-3626914
The complaint
Mr S complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund all the payments he 
made as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of the events below. 
Between January 2021 and March 2021, Mr S made several payments towards what he 
believed was a legitimate cryptocurrency investment opportunity with a firm Ill refer to as B. 
The first payment was a debit card payment of around £180 (plus charges) to D  who 
appears to be a payment processor. The remaining payments totalling around £10,000 were 
transfers made to his own account with a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange  C to 
purchase cryptocurrencywhich was then transferred to a fraudulent trading platform with 
B. When Mr S realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam, he reported this to Halifax and 
asked that it refund his losses as it hadnt done enough to protect him. 
Halifax agreed to a refund of £1,550 (50% of the last payment made to C) and paid a 
compensatory award of £100 for customer service issues. Mr S remained unhappy and 
referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator reached the conclusion that Halifax 
had acted fairly and didnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. Mr S wasnt 
satisfied with the outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to reconsider his complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I cant fairly and reasonably ask Halifax to 
refund the disputed transactions. My reasons are as follows:
- Naturally, with the benefit of hindsight I can appreciate why Mr S believes Halifax 
ought to have intervened. But in practice this isnt always possible and can be quite 
challenging as there are many millions of payments made each day and it would not 
be realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check each one. There is a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
- Im satisfied the first payment of around £180 (plus charges) would not have stood 
out to Halifax as being unusual or suspicious. It was an authorised debit card 
payment, so the only recovery option available to Halifax was a chargeback claim. 
Halifax are bound by the card scheme providers rules  here Visa. Based on 
everything Ive seen I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
reaching the conclusion that Mr S claim didnt have a reasonable prospect of 
success under Visas scheme rules. I say this because ultimately Mr S claim is that 
B is operating fraudulently. But the scheme does not investigate allegations of fraud 
or provide a dispute resolution process for allegations of a scam. In fact, investment 
related chargeback rights under Visas scheme are very limited and narrow. The only 
claim Halifax couldve raised on Mr S behalf is if the merchant didnt allow him to 
withdraw his available balance. But Visas evidential requirements are very specific, 
and it requires the following evidence  a copy of the cardholders investment 
account showing the date, the withdrawal amount, and the available balance at the 
time the withdrawal request was made. And here Mr S hasn't provided any evidence 
that would meet the scheme's very specific requirements.  
- The remaining payments were transfers to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange (so 
no obvious red flags) and Halifax wouldn't have known from the transactional activity 
that they were ultimately being sent to B. Looking at Mr S statements I can see hed 
previously made a faster payment of £8,000 (in February 2021). So I don't think the 
size of the transactions would've stood out to Halifax. I can see the payments started 
small and increased in size with the largest being £3,100. But these were made over 
a three-month period and to the same merchant  so by the time the larger one's 
were made; C was an existing payee. So it wouldnt be fair to say that the amounts 
and/or type of payments (including the merchant the payments were made to) should 
have appeared sufficiently unusual or suspicious to Halifax such that it ought to have 
intervened and contacted Mr S about the transactions.
- There also wasnt any interaction between Mr S and Halifax at the time the payments 
were made, so it didnt otherwise unreasonably miss an opportunity to unearth the 
scam before these were made.
- The payments were made to Mr S own account with C (which he was in control of) 
so I wouldnt have expected Halifax to have done more in assisting him in the 
recovery of those funds.
- In these circumstances the payments from Mr S own account to his own account are 
not covered by the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the Code). So, I also cant say Halifax have acted unfairly in declining a refund under 
the Code.
I'd like Mr S to know that I am sorry to hear about the impact the scam has had on his health 
and personal life. But taking all the above into consideration I dont think Halifax has done 
anything wrong. So Im satisfied the £1,550 refund and £100 compensatory award already 
paid by Halifax is more than fair. So it follows that I wont be asking it to do any more to 
resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman