DRN-2951609
The complaint
Mr O complains that he was mis-sold car finance provided by Volkswagen Financial (UK)
Limited (trading as Volkswagen Financial Services) (VFS). 
What happened
In 2020, Mr O took out a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with VFS for a used car. This was
arranged by the supplying dealer  that Ill call H. Mr O was unhappy with the car so H took it
back and cancelled the HPA. Not long after Mr O took out a second HPA with VFS for a
different used vehicle. This HPA was cancelled as well and Mr O thinks its unfair that he
didnt get the full deposit paid under the first HPA back.
Mr O says the second HPA was signed in a rush and he was misled about the terms  H told
him the monthly payments would be the same as the first HPA and Mr O only realised the
payments were over £100 more a month when he got the finance documents in the post. Mr
O thinks he lost about £1,500 when the second HPA was cancelled and H took the car back. 
He wants VFS to make up the difference.
VFS says (in summary):-
no monthly payments were taken and the deposits were returned in full to H, without
any deductions, when the HPAs were cancelled;
H agreed to buy the second car back from Mr O as a goodwill gesture because he
was only entitled to one exchange (under Hs 30 day exchange policy) and hed
already exchanged the previous vehicle;
the re-purchase price paid for the second car was agreed between Mr O and H 
which had nothing to do with VFS; and
the amount H paid Mr O was reduced to reflect the impact of registering an additional
owner plus the cost of valeting and damage to the second vehicle.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. Shes satisfied that we can consider what
was said during pre-contract negotiations between Mr O and H in this complaint against VFS
- under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She considered it reasonable to
look at the paperwork completed at the time, as evidence of what the parties agreed. And
she was satisfied that Mr O was supplied with documents that told him about the key 
features of this type of finance including how much he had to pay each month and the 
amount of any deposit.
She thinks it would have been reasonable for Mr O to consider this paperwork  and shes 
satisfied he had enough time to do so - and decide if the finance suited his needs. She 
understands Mr O is unhappy with the price paid when the second car was returned but this 
happened after he took out the finance and she didnt think it fair to hold VWFS responsible 
for that. Shes not persuaded the finance was mis-represented and she didnt recommend 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr O says he only had the second car for 11 days, there was no damage when it went back
and valeting wouldnt have cost much. He feels hes lost £1,500 and considers VFS should 
provide a refund to put him back in the financial position he was in before he took out the 
HPAs. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
My provisional decision
I looked at the relevant information about this complaint and I wasnt minded to uphold it. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators so I thought it was fair to let the parties 
see my provisional findings - and make further submissions (if they wanted to) - before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2021. My provisional 
findings are set out below and form part of my final decision. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr O brings this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because it relates to two
finance agreements provided by VFS. And I should make it clear at the outset that I can only
look at VFSs obligations arising under the finance in this decision. 
Section 56 of the CCA says a lender like VFS may be liable for whats said in pre-contract 
discussions - like the ones Mr O had with H before he took out these HPAs. So, Im satisfied 
I can consider what was said during those conversations - in this complaint against VFS. 
But, Im unable to hold VFS responsible for Hs after sales service - or any separate 
arrangements that Mr O made with H about the return of these cars.
According to the paperwork Ive seen, Mr O acquired two vehicles from H with finance
provided by VFS. The first car was about three years old and cost nearly £20,000. This was
supplied under a under a HPA in early September 2020 - which records that Mr O paid a
deposit of £14,500, by way of part exchange. This finance was repayable over two years at
over £200 a month. The second car was registered in 2019 and cost over £30,000.
According to the relevant HPA Mr O paid a deposit of just under £14,000 and the finance 
was repayable over five years at over £300 a month.
Mr O doesnt seem to have any issue with what happened when he took out the first HPA. I 
think the crux of his complaint against VFS relates to the second finance agreement so Im 
going to concentrate on that here. Mr O says this HPA was mis-sold because:-
he didnt have enough time to consider the terms properly;
misrepresentations were made about how much hed have to pay each month; and
the deposit paid under the first HPA wasnt transferred in full to the second one.
I appreciate Mr O says he took out the second HPA in a rush but, as far as I can see, the
agreement was proposed six days before he signed it. I think that suggests Mr O had a few
days to consider the terms and decide if he was happy and Im unable to reasonably
conclude that he didnt have enough time - or was otherwise pressured into signing the
second HPA.
Turning to the matters that Mr O says were misrepresented - specifically the amount of
monthly payments due and the deposit paid. I cant be certain what was said exactly at the
relevant time. Like the investigator, I think its reasonable to look at the paperwork provided  
as this is likely to provide the best evidence of what the parties agreed. Im satisfied that Mr 
O was given pre contract credit information (PCCI) - intended to highlight the key features of 
the finance - and he signed to confirm hed received and understood this information. I can also see the monthly payments due and the deposit are set out fairly clearly on the first page 
of the second HPA.
I think its reasonable to expect anyone taking on this sort of financial commitment to
consider the relevant documents and check theyre happy with the key terms  even if they
dont read every single paragraph. And I consider it would have been reasonable for Mr O to
ensure he was happy with the size of deposit and the monthly payments here - before he
signed the agreement. But, even if I were to accept that Mr O didnt notice that the monthly
payment amount had gone up in the second HPA, I find it difficult to see why he reasonably 
believed this wouldnt increase from the first agreement - even over the longer five year term 
- given the second car cost considerably more than the first. 
Its not clear to me why the amount of deposit was reduced by about £500 from the first 
HPA. It looks as if the first car was returned under Hs 30 day no quibble exchange policy 
which says no deductions would be made - provided the car was returned in the same
condition. We asked the parties for more information about this but nothing further has been
provided. On the current evidence, I think it should have been reasonably clear to Mr O 
when he signed the second HPA that the deposit was about £500 lower than the first. If he 
thought that was wrong Id expect him to have said so at the time but Ive seen nothing to 
show that he did.
For me to uphold Mr Os complaint against VFS in respect of misrepresentation, Id need to
be satisfied that H told Mr O something that wasnt true during the course of pre-contract
discussions before he signed the relevant HPA, Mr O reasonably relied on that and this 
untrue statement induced him to take out the finance.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly find that Mr O should reasonably have been 
misled about the amount of the monthly payments due or the size of the deposit paid under 
the second HPA. Im not certain what happened when the second HPA ended exactly. It 
looks as if the second car was returned under the terms of an agreement reached between 
Mr O and H. I understand H gave Mr O something in writing at the time but I havent seen a 
copy of that. VFS has confirmed however that both deposits were returned in full to H. And I 
cant reasonably hold VFS responsible for any deductions that H made under separate 
arrangements to take the cars back concluded direct with Mr O.
I understand Mr O feels strongly that hes been treated unfairly here. But, from the evidence 
Ive seen, Im not persuaded this finance was misrepresented. And Im not satisfied there
are enough fair and reasonable grounds to require VFS to provide a refund or do anything
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to consider my provisional decision and let me have any further 
comments or evidence by 23 July 2021. That date has now passed and Mr O hasnt 
responded. VFS has accepted my provisional findings. 
Having reviewed all the available evidence, I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions. For the reasons I set out, Im not persuaded that this finance was 
misrepresented and I cant fairly find VFS should provide a refund or do anything else.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman