DRN-3594467
The complaint
Miss D says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, changed the name on her account 
without her consent. This is a major security breach.
What happened
The name on Miss Ds account was changed from her maiden name to her married name on 
5 October 2021. She did not request this, and only discovered it had happened when she 
tried to pay in a cheque in her maiden name. Halifax explained as there is an insurance 
policy in Miss Ds married name within its banking group its systems automatically updated 
any product that had different personal details. It apologised saying this should not have 
happened and changed the account name back. To compensate Miss D for the worry and 
inconvenience caused it offered £100. She rejected this offer.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ds complaint. He said whilst Halifax had made a 
mistake it had acknowledged this and corrected it. He felt its settlement offer was fair and 
reflected the inconvenience and distress Miss D had suffered.
Unhappy with this assessment, Miss D asked for an ombudsmans review. She said the 
error is a massive security breach and she feels it has not been taken seriously. If she had 
wanted to change her name she would have to visit a branch and show documentation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Halifax changed the name on Miss D current account when she had 
not request it do so, nor shown any supporting documentation. But the bank accepts this. It 
has explained why the mistake was made; corrected it; apologised; and offered £100 
compensation. I have thought carefully about how Miss D must have felt when she found out 
about the unauthorised name change, and the banks response. And in the round I find that 
£100 would be a fair settlement. 
To be clear, Miss D should not interpret this to mean I do not agree that there was a 
significant failing on the part of the bank. But we do not have the power to punish a bank, 
financially or otherwise. We check that any compensation offered fairly reflects the impact on 
the account holder. In this case that amounts to assessing the level of distress of 
inconvenience experienced. No evidence has been submitted to show the error caused any 
financial loss for Miss D that needs making good by the bank.
As the investigator said if Miss D wishes to report the issue as a data breach she should
contact the Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk).
I will leave it with Miss D to decide if she now wishes to accept the £100 offered by Halifax. 
She should contact it directly to let it know.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman