DRN-2725863
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) prevented him from 
settling a loan early by failing to provide a suitable communication channel. And this led to 
him incurring unnecessary costs. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr C took a 36-month loan with Creation. This included a 12-month holiday period 
which meant he could settle the loan without interest if he repaid it by 15 June 2020.
Mr C says he tried to contact Creation on a number of occasions prior to this date by 
phone but was unable to speak to anyone as it was running a reduced service. He 
said a pre-recorded message told him to complete the transaction online, but he said 
he didnt have an online account  and when trying to set one up hed been unable to 
register. He said he also contacted Creation by email. 
Creation said it had written to Mr C with reminders of this offer previously and given 
him enough notification. And although Mr C didnt receive these letters, this had been 
his own mistake as hed not told Creation of his updated address. So, it said it 
wouldnt allow him to use the offer as hed repaid too late.
Mr C brought the complaint to our service and the investigator upheld the complaint. 
She was satisfied Mr C had the funds to settle the loan and had tried to do this by 
phone prior to the deadline  supported by his memory of its specific messaging from 
the time about high call volumes. And as hed been trying to reach Creation and the 
call volumes prevented this from happening, she said it should allow him to settle the 
loan in line with the special offer.
Creation disagreed, saying there was no evidence hed tried to contact it prior to an 
email of 18 June 2020 querying how to settle the loan online. And it said there was 
no problem with the phone lines, simply that the hold times were longer due to 
unprecedented call volumes.
The investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said Mr Cs testimony 
and recall of events persuaded her that he had called in time, and this hadnt been 
possible. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute Mr C was aware of the significance of repaying his loan prior to 15 
June 2020 ahead of time. So whether he received letters from Creation doesnt 
impact anything in this case as Im satisfied he knew of this.
What is in dispute is whether Mr C tried to contact Creation ahead of this deadline. 
Creation says theres no evidence to support he did call it. But Ive also thought 
carefully about its own description of its phonelines across this time. Its said while 
there wasnt a problem, the volumes were unprecedented and led to waiting times 
longer than it would have wanted. This suggests to me that its plausible Mr C 
had called but been unable to get through.
Im mindful here that Mr Cs attempts to contact Creation were at a time shortly after 
a national lockdown was imposed and many businesses experienced severe 
problems with maintaining their usual phone capabilities for consumers. 
Ive also thought about what Mr C has said and I think his account of events is 
plausible and persuasive. I say this as Mr C has been consistent in what happened 
and referred to Creations automated messages directing him to go online to make 
the payment. This ties in with the email Creation has acknowledged where he asked 
about this online payment method shortly after the deadline. 
For all of these reasons, Im satisfied its most likely Mr C had been calling Creation 
prior to this deadline to make payment. And he was prevented from doing so in this 
case as a result of this high volumes. So, in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint, I think Creation needs to allow Mr C to settle his loan as if he had made 
the payment on 15 June 2020.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
accept Mr Cs payment to settle the loan as if this had been paid on or before 15 
June 2020 (if it hasnt done so already); 
upon payment, it should return any interest or subsequent payments made by Mr C 
with 8% interest from the date paid (if there are any); and
amend any credit reference agencies records to reflect the loan being settled on 15 
June 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman