DRN-4039418
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the advice she says she received to transfer a personal pension to a 
self-invested personal pension ("SIPP"). Her transfer proceeds were invested in an 
unregulated investment scheme that has since failed. Mrs R says the advice to transfer 
wasn't suitable because the proposed investment was too high risk for her. She holds 
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in our preliminary findings issued by an 
investigator on my behalf and with my instruction. Ill set out those findings and the 
background to these below. This forms part of my decision:
Mrs R told us in her complaint  form to our Service  that a financial  adviser  came  to her home  
and told her that her Prudential  pension  wasn't  performing  well. From  the evidence  of the 
complaint  it appears  that this person  was operating  in an introducer  capacity.
Mrs R said she was told that if she transferred  her pension  to Dolphin  Trust  then she would  
receive  a better  return.
On 10 June  2015  Mrs R signed  a document  to say that she had appointed  a Mr P from 
Wellington  Court  to provide  advice  in relation  to the Orbis  SIPP.
Prudential  confirmed  in a letter  dated  3 August  2015  that they had transferred  £25,271 to the 
SIPP  provider, Guinness  Mahon. The Dolphin  Trust  Agreement  was signed  on 11 September  
2015  and a five year loan note purchased  for £23,000  on 5 October  2015.
In February  2017  Mrs R began  making  regular  monthly  contributions  to her SIPP  - £80 net of 
tax.
Wellington  Court  said it did not give Mrs R any advice  and Mrs R has never  been  its 
customer. It said any paperwork  linking  Mrs R to Wellington  Court  is fraudulent and denies  
that it has any responsibility  for the complaint.  So, the matter  was passed  to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Whilst  I've considered  this case  on its own merits  - relevant  information  has also been  
drawn  from many  other  cases  with very similar  circumstances  against  Wellington  Court.
Wellington  Court  have  been  given  detailed  views  and decisions  outlining  our findings  and 
setting  out the evidence  we've  collated  that corroborates  our view of its role in these  cases.  
Despite  this Wellington  Court  hasn't  provided  credible  explanations  for the evidence  that 
points  to it being  responsible  for the unsuitable  pension  transfers  in question  and losses  that 
flow from them.
And so, I don't  think  it is necessary  to set out all of this information  in detail  again.  Below,  is a 
summary  of the evidence  why I've concluded  that Wellington  Court  is responsible  for the 
transfer  of Mrs R's pension  and the losses  that flow from them:
Wellington  Court  have  argued  the complaint  isn't within our jurisdiction  to consider. The 
activities in question  were  carried  on from  an establishment  in the UK. Wellington  Court  is 
a regulated  business . Mrs R brought  her complaint  to us within the relevant  time limits  and it's 
difficult  to argue  Mrs R wasn't  its customer  given  it knowingly accepted  the 1% payment  in 
relation  to Mrs R and the transfer  wouldn 't have  happened  if it hadn 't been  for its 
involvement.  With all the above  in mind , I'm satisfied  that this is a complaint I can consider.
The SIPP provider  (GMTC)  has provided  evidence  that Wellington  Court  was the adviser  for 
Mrs R's SIPP. This includes  the SIPP application submitted  on Wellington  Court  headed  
paper, a signed  agreement  by Mrs R that Wellington  Court  had provided  advice  and that a 
fee would  be payab le to Wellington  Court.
The documentation  is all signed  on behalf  of a Mr P of Wellington  Court  - the signature  is 
indecipherable  but Mr P's name  is also hand-written  but had initially  been  spelt  incorrectly  - 
you can see there's  been  a correction.
Wellington  Court  have  provided  a witness  statement  from Mr P, who says  he had only at that 
point  agreed  to provide  adhoc  transfer  advice  to the SIPP  provider  about  which  cases  had 
safeguarded  or final salary  benefits  and these  should  be filtered  out. He says  he (and 
Wellington  Court)  didn't  give specific  advice to any particular  customer  (barring  three  test 
customers).  He's said the paperwork  referred  to above  was not produced  by him and he and 
Wellington  Court  had no knowledge  of it. I accept  that given  the presentation  of the 
paperwork  above  this seems  plausible.
Wellington  Court  hasn 't kept any documents  relating  to its consultancy  work  with GMTC  even  
though  it wasn 't a particularly  long time ago.
However , statements  show  the SIPP  paid a fee detailed  as 'Wellington  Financial  /FA Fee ' 
from Mrs R's SIPP  which  was in line with the 1% fee agreed  on the SIPP  application.
Bank  records  show  the SIPP  provider  paid Wellington  Court  the SIPP  advice fees taken  from 
many  customers  in regular  tranches  for at least  six months  and this totalled approximately  
£87,000. The payments  were  shown  to be taken  from SIPP  customers  who Wellington  Court  
say they're  completely  unaware  of. Wellington  Court  won't provide  its unredacted  bank  
statements  from this period  but two of the tranches  do show  on their bank  statements  - so its 
fair to conclude  they likely  received  all of this money  and potentially  more .
However , there  is a clear  audit  trail that the fees paid by the SIPP  provider  to Wellington  
Court  was paid for advice  and not consultancy. The fee amount  1% is also more  indicative  of 
an advice  fee rather  than a checking  service  that Wellington  Court  argues  it provided .
The transfers  to the Orbis  SIPP  appear  to have  been  initiated  by introducers  who sourced  
potential  clients  and did much  of the work  in terms  of getting clients  into a position  to transfer.  
And then in order  to progress  the transfer,  GMTC  required  the involvement  of an advisory  
firm. It seems  Wellington  Court  fulfilled  that role.
Wellington  Court 's consultancy  work  shows  there  was a working  relationship  between  the 
parties  at the time. It wouldn't  be a stretch  to say that this could have  led to Wellington  Court  
doing  other  work  on the transfers, potentially  with the minimum  of paperwork  - especially  as 
both organ isations  were  based  in the same  town  when  the transfers  were  taking  place  and Mr 
P spent  time in GMTC's  offices.
The increase  in Wellington  Court's  income  over the period  in question  is largely  down  to the 
fees received  from the SIPP  provider.  So it's not plausible  it didn't  notice  these  payments.  
Furthermore , Wellington  Court  have  provided  no evidence  of any consultancy  work , yet there  
is evidence  they paid a fee for advice  in the transfers  in question  such  as Mrs R.
Wellington  Court  has said it was a victim  of fraud. It's a serious  allegation  and yet Wellington  
Court  hasn 't (based  on the available  evidence)  reported  its concerns  to the appropriate  
authorities  (the police  for instance)  or even  done  much  to investigate the matter  itself  beyond  
telling  us, and many  complainants,  that it wasn' t involved.  So it's difficult  to give Wellington  
Court's  allegations  too much  credence  given  its own lack of action  on the alleged  fraud.
Instead  I think  its most  likely  that Wellington  Court  knowingly  received  a 1% advisory  fee in 
relation  to Mrs R's transfer  and many  other  transfers.
It is not uncommon  for an introducer  to drive  the process  of transferring  a pension  with the 
intention  of investing  in a particular  scheme.  And introducers  often  carry  out the majority  of 
the fact-finding  directly  with the customer  before  involving  a regulated  adviser  to complete  
the process.  In some  instances,  customers  will not meet  with or speak  to the firm providing  the advice.  So I don't think  that those  customers  who say they didn't speak  to a 
representative  of Wellington  Court,  or who were  unaware  of its involvement,  is particularly  
unusual.
In order  to proceed  with the transfer,  GMTC  needed  to have  confidence  that advice  had been  
given  to Mrs R. The paperwork  submitted,  such  as the covering  letter  from Wellington  Court , 
confirmed  Mrs R had appointed  Wellington  Court  to provide  her with advice.  And GMTC's  
'New  Business  Sign Off Sheet ' stated  Mrs R had been  advised  on the transfer  of her pension.  
So, I think  the transfer  proceeded  on the basis  that Wellington  Court  had advised  Mrs R to do 
so.
There's a lack of paperwork  to show  what, if anything,  Wellington  Court  did in return  for its 
advice  fee. I don't know  if this was due to an oversight  on its part - that is, it didn't  fully 
understand  what  it should  have  done  given  the regulations  in place  at the time - or whether  it 
knew  its actions  were  negligent.  Either  way,  it seems  Wellington  Court's  involvement  was 
little more  than "window  dressing",  providing  a veneer  of advice  to satisfy  GMTC  in return  for 
a 1% fee on a large  number  of transfers.
Questioning  GMTC 's role in what  happened  is reasonable.  But it doesn't  necessarily  follow  
from this that GMTC  was acting  fraudulently  or that Wellington  Court  wasn't  involved. In order  
to perpetrate  the fraud  that Wellington  Court  has alleged, GMTC  would  have  been  reliant  on 
Wellington  Court  not noticing  a series  of unsolicited , but substantial,  payments  into its bank  
account  over an extended  period  and on those  people  that transferred  (of which  there  are 
many  dozens)  not questioning  Wellington  Court  at any point.  I don't  think  it likely  that GMTC  
would  have  taken  its chances  in this way unless,  of course,  it had some  sort of understanding  
with Wellington  Court  - in which  case  Wellington  Court's  involvement  is still key to what  
happened.
Whatever  the extent  of Wellington  Court's  contact  with Mrs R, it was still nonetheless  
engaged  in an advisory  capacity  in relation  to her transfer  - and the transfer  of many  other  
pensions  too. The absence  of any of the usual  paperwork  one would  expect  from an advice  
process,  and the absence  of substantive  testimony  about  meetings  with Wellington  Court,  
doesn't  change  any of this. It just means  Wellington  Court  didn't  properly  advise  Mrs R, and 
others, despite  being  paid to do so.
Furthermore,  it's also worth  noting  that victims  of scams  wouldn' t usually  receive  tens of 
thousands  of pounds  from the alleged  scammer  - and there  appears  to be little doubt  that 
Wellington  Court  did receive  these  sorts  of sums  and were  aware  of this.
In regards  to the suitability  of the transfer  and investments  made , I'm satisfied  the transaction  
wasn't  suitable  for Mrs R. I say this because  the investments  were  non- mainstream,  high 
risk, and unregulated  investments.  Mrs R doesn 't appear  to have  had the degree  of 
investment  knowledge  or risk appetite  such  an investment  would have  required.  I also don't  
think  Mrs R would  have  needed  to transfer  her pension  to a SIPP, given  the costs  involved  in 
doing  so. All things  considered , therefore,  I didn't  think  the transfer  was suitable  for her.
I think  if Mrs R hadn't  been  approached  about  this investment,  she would've  remained  in her 
current  pension  arrangement  until she decided  to take her benefits.
In conclusion,  Wellington  Court  is responsible  for Mrs R transferring  into an arrangement  
unsuitable  for her and is responsible  for any loss that follows  from this.
Mrs Rs representative  responded  to say she accepted  the above,  but Wellington  Court  
did not response  so a decision  is required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst the findings are specific to this case, they are also in-line with the findings weve reached on many other similar complaints previously and I am satisfied that Wellington Court 
has had more than enough opportunity to respond. Wellington Court hasnt responded on 
each specific case rather sporadically across the various cases. And I note more recently 
and after many of the cases had already been decided, we received correspondence from a  
firm acting on behalf of Wellington Court (on this particular case but referring to all cases). 
Ive considered the points raised by the solicitor. But the points raised are not new and have 
already been addressed in our findings issued on previous cases and in the findings set out 
above in relation to Mrs Rs case.
As weve received no further arguments from either party, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out above.
Putting things right
In assessing  what  would  be fair compensation,  my aim is to put Mrs R as 
close  as possible  to the position  she would  probably  now be in if she had been  
given  suitable  advice.
I think  Mrs R would  have  remained  with her previous  provider,  however  I cannot  be 
certain  that a value  will be obtainable  for what  the previous  policy  would  have  been  
worth.  I am satisfied  what  I have  set out below  is fair and reasonable,  taking  this into 
account  and given  Mrs R's circumstances  and objectives  when  she invested.
What  should  Wellington  Court  do?
To compensate  Mrs R fairly  Wellington  Court  should:
Compare  the performance  of Mrs R's investment  with the notional  value  if it had 
remained  with the previous  provider.  If the actual  value  is greater  than the 
notional  value,  no compensation  is payable.  If the notional  value  is greater  than 
the actual  value,  there  is a loss and compensation  is payable.
Wellington  Court  should  also add any interest  set out below  to the compensation  
payable.
If there  is a loss,  Wellington  Court  should  pay into Mrs R's pension  plan,  to 
increase  its value  by the amount  of the compensation  and any interest.  
Wellington  Courts  payment  should  allow  for the effect  of charges  and any 
available  tax relief.  Wellington  Court  shouldn't  pay the compensation  into the 
pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Wellington  Court  are unable  to pay the compensation  into Mrs R's pension  
plan,  Wellington  Court  should  pay that amount  direct  to her. But had it been  
possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have  provided  a taxable  income.  Therefore  
the compensation  should  be reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income  tax that 
would  otherwise  have  been  paid.  This is an adjustment  to ensure  the 
compensation  is a fair amount  - it isn't a payment  of tax to HMRC, so Mrs R won't  
be able to reclaim  any of the reduction  after compensation  is paid.
The notional  allowance  should  be calculated  using  Mrs R's actual  or expected  
marginal  rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age.
It's reasonable  to assume  that Mrs R is likely  to be a basic  rate taxpayer  at the 
selected  retirement  age, so the reduction  would  equal  20%.  However,  if Mrs R would  have  been  able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the reduction  should  be 
applied  to 75% of the compensation,  resulting  in an overall  reduction  of 15%.
Provide  the details  of the calculation  to Mrs R in a clear,  simple  format.
Portfolio  
nameStatus Benchmark From  ("start  
date")To ("end  
date")Additional  
interest
Orbis  SIPP Still exists  
but illiquidNotional  value
from previous  
providerDate  of 
investmentDate  of 
decision8% per year 
simple  on the 
loss amount  
from the date of 
acceptance  of 
the decision  to 
the date of 
settlement  for 
any time in 
excess  of 90 
days
Actual  value
This means  the actual  amount  payable  from the investment  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  any investment  in the portfolio  is illiquid  (meaning  it cannot  be 
readily  sold on the open  market),  it may be difficult  to find the actual  value  of the 
portfolio.  So, Wellington  Court  should  take ownership  of any illiquid  investments  
within  the portfolio  by paying  a commercial  value  acceptable  to the pension  
provider.  This amount  Wellington  Court  pay should  be included  in the actual  
value  before  compensation  is calculated.
If Wellington  Court  are unable  to purchase  the any illiquid  investment  the value  of 
that investment  should  be assumed  to be nil when  arriving  at the actual  value  of 
the portfolio.  Wellington  Court  may wish to require  that Mrs R provides  an 
undertaking  to pay Wellington  Court  any amount  she may receive  from that 
investment  in the future.  The undertaking  must  allow  for any tax and charges  that 
would  be incurred  on drawing  the receipt  from the pension  plan.  Wellington  Court  
will need  to meet  any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
Notional  Value
This is the value  of Mrs R's investment  had it remained  with the previous  provider  
until the end date.  Wellington  Court  should  request  that the previous  provider  
calculate  this value.
Any additional  sum paid into the Orbis  SIPP  should  be added  to the notional  
value  calculation  from the point  in time when  it was actually  paid in.
Any withdrawal  from the Orbis  SIPP  should  be deducted  from the notional  value  
calculation  at the point  it was actually  paid so it ceases  to accrue  any return  in 
the calculation  from that point  on. If there  is a large  number  of regular  payments,  
to keep  calculations  simpler,  I'll accept  if Wellington  Court  total all those  
payments  and deduct  that figure  at the end to determine  the notional  value  
instead  of deducting  periodically.If the previous  provider  is unable  to calculate  a notional  value,  Wellington  Court  
will need  to determine  a fair value  for Mrs R's investment  instead,  using  this 
benchmark:  FTSE  UK Private  Investors  Income  Total  Return  Index. The 
adjustments  above  also apply  to the calculation  of a fair value  using  the 
benchmark,  which  is then used  instead  of the notional  value  in the calculation  of 
compensation.
The Orbis  SIPP  only exists  because  of illiquid  assets.  In order  for the Orbis  SIPP  
to be closed  and further  fees that are charged  to be prevented,  those  
investments  need  to be removed.  I've set out above  how this might  be achieved  
by Wellington  Court  taking  over the portfolio,  or this is something  that Mrs R can 
discuss  with the provider  directly.  But I don't  know  how long that will take.
Third  parties  are involved  and we don't  have  the power  to tell them  what  to do. If 
Wellington  Court  are unable  to purchase  the portfolio,  to provide  certainty  to all 
parties  I think  it's fair that Wellington  Court  pay Mrs R an upfront  lump  sum 
equivalent  to five years'  worth  of wrapper  fees (calculated  using  the fee in the 
previous  year to date).  This should  provide  a reasonable  period  for the
parties  to arrange  for the Orbis  SIPP  to be closed.
Why  is this remedy  suitable?
I've chosen  this method  of compensation  because:
Mrs R wanted  Capital  growth  and was willing  to accept  some  investment  risk.
If the previous  provider  is unable  to calculate  a notional  value,  then I consider  the 
measure  below  is appropriate.
The FTSE  UK Private  Investors  Income  Total  Return  index  (prior  to 1 March  
2017,  the FTSE  WMA  Stock  Market  Income  total return  index)  is made  up of a 
range  of indices  with different  asset  classes,  mainly  UK equities  and government  
bonds.  It's a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some  risk to 
get a higher  return.
Although  it is called  income  index,  the mix and diversification  provided  within  the 
index  is close  enough  to allow  me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of 
comparison  given  Mrs R's circumstances  and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and require Wellington Court Financial Services Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman