DRN-2597951
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont reimburse her for a transfer of 
£11,300 made from her current account, after she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In late 2016, Mrs W received some inheritance money from her father. Mrs W has explained 
her fathers health was deteriorating at this point and he wanted to see her enjoy it while he 
could.
Mrs W wanted to purchase a campervan. Mrs W saw a campervan listed for sale on eBay. 
Mrs W was successful with her bid. 
The seller, through contact with Mrs W outside of the eBay platform, provided details of an 
account for Mrs W to transfer the money to for the purchase of the campervan. Mrs W also 
had to pay some additional transport costs and was provided with details of the transport 
company that would be delivering the campervan to Mrs W.
On 30 November 2016, Mrs W went into branch and made the transfer to the account details 
the seller had given her.
Mrs W recalls that the cashier at the desk wasnt able to process the transfer and that it 
needed to be authorised / signed off by the branch manager. 
Mrs W says she was asked what the payment was for and told the staff that it was for a 
lovely blue campervan that she had seen on eBay and that she was purchasing. Mrs W 
says the cashier was happy and seemed excited for her  and they had small talk around 
the campervan but neither the cashier or branch manager questioned her about anything 
during the approximate half hour she was in branch.  
Mrs W says the seller messaged her and phoned her in the period after the transfer and told 
her that he was pleased that the campervan would be going to a family and asked for 
pictures of it being used by the family when it arrived.
Unfortunately the campervan never arrived. Mrs W called the transport company with the 
details she had been given and was told that it had no record of her or of delivering her a 
campervan. Mrs W wasnt able to contact the seller. Mrs W says her daughter then went 
online and discovered similar stories about this type of scam and Mrs W realised she had 
also been the victim of a scam.
On 7 December 2016 Mrs W contacted Barclays and reported the scam. Barclays contacted 
the receiving bank (the bank used by the scammer) to see if any funds could be recovered. 
Barclays say the receiving bank responded on 21 December 2016 advising that no funds 
remained that could be recovered.
Mrs W says at this time she was informed by Barclays fraud department that she was not 
covered as she had paid by bank transfer.
From the information provided, which is an email to Barclays, it appears Mrs W further 
complained to Barclays about the matter on 12 December 2016. Mrs W in her email advised 
that she had been under the impression that a bank transfer was a secure method of 
payment and the payment was also personally authorised by the bank manager as it was a 
large sum of money. Mrs W said that had she been warned at any time that it wasnt a 
secure method of payment she would have chosen an alternative method of payment and 
was shocked that she would have possibly been protected had she paid by credit card.
Barclays responded to Mrs W on 15 December 2016, acknowledging Mrs Ws complaint and 
informing her that she would be contacted by Barclays by 29 December 2016. 
There is an email reply to Barclays from Mrs W, on 3 January 2017. 
Mrs W says she never received a response from Barclays after this. Mrs W has also 
explained that it was around this time she suffered a breakdown and lost her job as a 
teacher. Mrs W felt being scammed (Mrs W had never been a victim of a scam prior to this) 
was a contributing factor.
It is unclear whether Barclays did respond to Mrs W email after 3 January 2017. Within its 
submissions to this service there isnt anything to indicate it did so.
Mrs W contacted our service in April 2019, in what she said was a final attempt to resolve 
the matter. Our service informed Barclays of Mrs Ws complaint, and Barclays investigated 
the matter and issued Mrs W with a final response letter on 17 May 2019.
Barclays within its final response explained it didnt consider it was liable for Mrs Ws loss 
and she had willingly made the transfer by herself. It also considered it had tried to recover 
the funds when it was informed of the scam but unfortunately no funds remained at the time 
that could be recovered. Barclays explained that if Mrs W remained unhappy, she could refer 
the matter to our service. 
Mrs W, unhappy with Barclays response to the matter, referred her complaint back to our 
service for an independent review.
This complaint was looked into by more than one investigator. Both assessments concluded 
that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. 
Barclays responded to the first assessment explaining it remained of the opinion it hadnt 
done anything wrong and that it had followed the customers instruction to complete the 
transfer. It added the customer has a responsibility to make relevant checks before making a 
payment for goods. Barclays requested an ombudsman review the case and issue a final 
decision.
While the case was waiting for an ombudsmans review, another investigator reviewed the 
complaint. The investigator remained of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld. 
Broadly summarised, she considered while Mrs W had authorised the payment (albeit while 
being tricked); Barclays had a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to 
the interest of its customers and to follow good industry practice to keep customers 
accounts safe. And this included identifying vulnerable consumers who may be
particularly susceptible to scams and looking out for payments which might indicate the
consumer is at risk of financial harm.
Taking the above into account, the investigator was of the opinion that whilst the scam took 
place in late 2016, there were still good industry standards in place at the time and 
purchasing vehicles online was, and still is, a well-known scam to banks.In light of the above, and as Mrs W had made the transfer in branch and had told the cashier 
it was for the purchase of a campervan that she had found on eBay, the investigator thought 
there was enough going on that Barclays ought to have been concerned that Mrs W might 
have been at risk of being scammed. The investigator thought Barclays should have taken 
steps to ask further questions before authorising the payment in branch given it was a well-
known scam to banks at that time. 
The investigator was of the opinion that had Barclays asked Mrs W more questions about 
the purchase and advised Mrs W of the consequences of paying by bank transfer, Mrs W 
wouldve taken steps to ask the scammer posing as the seller, if she could pay by an 
alternative more secure method and wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer. In short, 
our investigator thought the scam could have been prevented. And Mrs W had lost out as a 
result. 
Our investigator concluded that Barclays should refund the money Mrs W lost as a result of 
the scam, pay simple interest set at 8% on this amount, from the date of the loss to the date 
of the settlement; and pay Mrs W £200 for the trouble and upset caused by failing to prevent 
the scam from happening.
Barclays, to date, hasnt responded to the investigators follow up opinion on the matter. 
So, as Barclays initially disagreed and hasnt subsequently responded, and to prevent any 
further delay, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account.  That was the case in November 2016, and remains so now, and I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:  
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6). Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements. In November 2016 those 
requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).   
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice in November 2016, I consider firms should 
in any event have taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available. 
So, Banks (and building societies) have had longstanding obligations to look out for their 
customers best interests and to be alert to instances of fraud. This means that there are 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank should, in my 
opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so, in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs W when she made a transfer of £11,300 to a new payee, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Did Barclays act fairly and reasonably in this case?
I am mindful that the transfer occurred in late 2016, and the records on the side of Barclays 
may not be wholly complete due to the time that has passed. But I consider there is enough 
information provided by both parties that allows me to reach a fair and reasonable decision.
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.Barclays say that the £11,300 transfer wasnt unusual or out of character for Mrs W. I 
disagree. In this case, Mrs W attended the branch to make the transfer and Mrs W provided 
the reason for the transfer to the cashier. The reason for the transfer  the purchase of a 
campervan that was listed on eBay  I consider, given the prevalence of this type of scam, 
meant Barclays should have reasonably been on alert and considered this as an unusual 
transaction / transfer. I believe that most banks, acting fairly and reasonably towards their 
customers in line with good practice, would view the reason for this transfer as potentially 
suspicious activity that could indicate its customer was at risk. 
So I would reasonably have expected Barclays, as Mrs W was in branch, to have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before executing the transfer. 
I accept that a bank does have a duty under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay 
payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable 
checks are also required as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly 
and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what 
a bank can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers to take responsibility for their own 
decisions  and possibly even bear a reduction in compensation if there is clear evidence of 
blame on their own part (see below). But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
account activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to respond 
proportionately  and that might simply include, for example, a phone call or discreet 
conversation for transactions in branch to check that things are okay. 
Ive considered what would have happened if Barclays had intervened in the way it might 
reasonably have done. Mrs W wasnt given a cover story by the fraudster, and from her 
testimony, which I find to be credible and plausible, she was open and honest with the 
cashier about what the transfer was for. 
So if Barclays had asked Mrs W discreet but probing questions, I think she would probably 
have explained she was buying a campervan listed on eBay (which she told the cashier 
already)  and it would probably have emerged that she hadnt seen it in person. Barclays 
would or should reasonably have been aware that this scenario fits the characteristics of a 
common scam.
Banks such as Barclays have actual or constructive knowledge of all the main scams, such 
as this (i.e. where a supposed eBay seller demands a direct bank transfer). So it could have 
explained this to Mrs W. At the very least, it could have given a broad warning about the risk 
of scams associated with significant online purchases such as this. If that had happened, I 
consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been broken and that Mrs W 
wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer.
 
Mrs W genuinely believed that making a bank transfer was a secure method of payment. 
That is clear from her email to Barclays in December 2016. Had the type of scam Mrs W was 
at potential risk of, been explained to her, I believe she would have sought further 
information from the scammer about making an alternative method of payment. Had Mrs W 
been made aware of this type of scam and that making a bank transfer wasnt a secure 
method in terms of the recovery of funds, if it was found to not be genuine, then I think it is 
reasonable to say that had the scammer pushed for a transfer as the only method of 
payment  Mrs W would have walked away from the sale which ultimately would have 
prevented the loss.I have considered whether Mrs W should bear some responsibility for her loss. But up until 
the missed delivery date, she was still totally duped into considering the sale to be 
legitimate. She has explained the listing on eBay, an established site, that everything 
seemed and looked genuine; the reassuring contact she had with the seller pre-transfer and 
post transfer and the fake delivery transportation details. I am satisfied she didnt foresee the 
risk of this sort of harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. Unlike the bank, 
Mrs W wouldnt have been aware of the warning signs that the advert could be a scam. So, 
on the particular facts of this individual case, I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation 
for some of the loss due to any blameworthy acts or omissions by Mrs W.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Barclays should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mrs W 
for the transfer she made to the fraudster. 
The impact on Mrs W
Mrs W had never been the victim of a scam prior to this, and it is clear that the scam had a 
profound impact on her well-being. I am mindful the bulk of that impact follows directly from 
the actions of the scammer. But I consider that Barclays could and ought to have prevented 
Mrs W from losing money as a result of the scam, for the reasons Ive explained. By 
stopping the financial losses Mrs W incurred, it is my finding that Barclays could have 
reduced the overall impact on Mrs W.
Considering everything, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Barclays should 
pay Mrs W £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a 
result of its actions.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Barclays. I do not think it 
was fair and reasonable for Barclays not to refund the amount Mrs W lost though becoming 
a victim of a scam.
I now direct Barclays to:
Refund Mrs W for the total of £11,300 she lost as a result of the scam
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date of the loss to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
Pay £200 compensation to Mrs W for the material distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should calculate and pay compensation as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman