DRN-3790012
The complaint
The estate of Miss D complains about the sale of a private medical insurance policy by 
BUPA Insurance Limited. They also complain about the cost of the policy, and that the pro-
rata refund didnt include the day Miss D passed away. 
What happened
The late Miss D held a private medical insurance policy with Bupa until she sadly died in 
2019. 
The executors of the estate complained to Bupa about the sale of the policy. They thought 
Miss D was unaware that she held it. They also thought the cost of the cover was too high, 
and that the pro-rata refund paid by Bupa ought to have included the day that Miss D died. 
Bupa said it didnt hold any information from the time of sale. It addressed the complaints 
about the price of the policy and the refund. Unhappy with Bupas response, the executors of 
the estate brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She explained she couldnt 
consider part of the complaint as it dated back to more than six years ago. But she said she 
could consider what had happened in the last six years. 
The investigator concluded that Miss D knew she held the policy as she had made claims in 
2016, 2017 and 2018. She also thought the renewal information sent by Bupa each year 
made Miss D aware that she had the cover, as well as the cost of this. Finally, our 
investigator thought it had been reasonable for Bupa not to include the date of Miss Ds 
death in the pro-rata refund, in case a claim was made for that day.
The executors of the estate didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Time limits
The rules that govern us are referred to as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and are set 
out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook. 
DISP rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
The executors complained in 2022. Some of the complaint concerns events that happened 
more than six years before this. The complaint about the sale, and the cost of the policy at 
renewals before 2015. 
Ive therefore considered when Miss D ought reasonably to have become aware that she 
had cause for complaint. 
Bupa has been able to show that it sent Miss D renewal information each year from 2010 
until 2019 (the accompanying membership certificates included the price), and that she 
made claims under her policy in 2010 and 2011. I therefore agree with our investigator that 
Miss D would have known from this that she held the policy which renewed each year, and 
the cost of the cover. 
I can waive the time limit in exceptional circumstances, but I dont think there are exceptional 
circumstances that would allow me to do so here. So Ill only be considering the events that 
took place within the last six years.
Complaint
The renewal information sent to Miss D each year made her aware that she continued to 
hold the policy. Given that she made claims in 2016, 2017 and 2018, I think its clear that 
she understood this. 
The renewal information included the membership certificate which set out the cost of the 
cover each year, and therefore Im satisfied Miss D was aware of the cost. In 2017, the FCA 
provided guidance to insurers about information that should be provided at renewal. This 
included disclosing the previous years premium so it could be compared to the new 
premium, as well as encouraging consumers to shop around if they wished. The renewal 
information from 2017 and 2018 included this information. So Miss D was aware that she 
could have looked elsewhere for potentially cheaper cover from 2017.
In terms of whether the cost of the cover was fair, this service generally takes the view that 
its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its policies. So long as it exercises that 
judgment fairly and consistently, its a matter in which this service wouldnt normally 
interfere.
Bupa has provided an explanation to this service confirming how Miss Ds price increases 
were calculated. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the premiums were charged 
accurately and fairly.
The executors say that some of the benefits would have been of no use to Miss D, and the 
ones that she did need could have been obtained at a lower price by simply paying for the 
treatment privately instead of the policy premiums. However, as with all insurance policies, 
someone may pay more in premiums than is ever received in claims, but that sort of risk is 
the very nature of insurance. 
The executors are unhappy that when Bupa calculated the pro-rata refund, it didnt include 
the day that Miss D died. Bupa has explained this is because an insured may still be having 
treatment on that day which could potentially be claimed under the policy. I think that seems 
reasonable, and so I dont require Bupa to refund the premium for that day.The executors also say that Bupa had nothing in place to allow Miss D to obtain the support 
provided by the policy should she become ill, as she did. But if someone is too unwell to 
claim on an insurance policy, an insurer cannot be held responsible for this situation. Miss D 
was apparently in hospital for some months before she died, and as our investigator has 
said, the executors will need to correspond with Bupa directly about this to find out if a claim 
is payable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman