DRN-3325430
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to carry out sufficient 
checks into his financial history when it approved his application for a credit card.
What happened
Mr A applied for a NatWest credit card in 2014. His application was approved and he was 
given a credit limit of £2,900.
In 2018, due to a serious health condition, Mr As financial situation changed markedly and 
he found he was unable to furnish his debts. He approached a debt charity who attempted to 
arrange an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, but it discovered that Mr A had been declared 
bankrupt in 2003. Mr A explained he was unaware of this bankruptcy. 
He complained to NatWest in May 2021. He said that it hadnt conducted the appropriate 
affordability checks when considering his credit card application in 2014. He said it shouldve 
checked the individual insolvency register which wouldve revealed that hed been declared 
bankrupt, and had it done so, the credit card wouldnt have been granted.
NatWest didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had conducted the correct checks at the time 
of the application, and the bankruptcy wasnt flagged on his credit check as it happened 
more than six years before. It said that it wasnt the banks process to check the insolvency 
register.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr A complained to our Service, but our Investigator 
didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He thought that NatWest wasnt required to 
check the insolvency record as part of the regulators rules, and this check wouldnt be 
included in the proportionate checks it needed to carry out. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary:
Although the FCA didnt require an insolvency check, best practice would be to 
conduct one;
NatWest hadnt confirmed whether having knowledge of the insolvency would have 
affected its lending decision;
He had no knowledge of the bankruptcy. He hadnt ticked the bankruptcy box on the 
application form as he didnt know about it.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge and say how sorry I am to hear of the health problems that 
Mr A has, and the obvious challenges, both physical and financial, that this has meant hes 
experiencing. But I have to assess this complaint objectively and come to a decision which is 
fair and reasonable on the basis of the evidence I have. And having done so, I dont uphold 
this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, so Ill explain.
Mr A was declared bankrupt in 2003. And it is not disputed that he didnt know about this 
bankruptcy until 2018, so wasnt aware of it when he applied for a NatWest credit card in 
2014. But he complains that NatWest wouldve discovered this bankruptcy if it had 
conducted sufficient checks when assessing his application. And if it had, it wouldnt have 
provided him credit so he wouldnt be in debt to them now.
Mr A has said that best practice means a lender should check the insolvency register as part 
of a lending assessment. But Im afraid I dont agree. The regulations state that a lender 
must carry out proportionate checks to determine whether credit was, as far as the lender 
could tell, affordable and sustainable and would not adversely affect the customer. What 
makes a check proportionate will depend on many things, such as what a lender knows 
about the customer, the size of credit, the term for repayment, and the customers lending 
history. 
But it is important to note the word proportionate. This means the checks need to be detailed 
enough to reflect the amount of credit being offered in the specific circumstances of the 
application. And NatWest has shown us that it took into account the level of unsecured 
lending Mr A already had, his normal outgoings and level of disposable income. And it 
considered he was able to meet the monthly repayments, so agreed to provide him credit. 
And a check with the insolvency register wasnt required by either the regulators rules nor its 
own internal processes. 
Having looked at what it knew about Mr A at the time, from both the details he provided, and 
from the enquiries it made, Im satisfied that the checks NatWest conducted were 
proportionate in the circumstances, and were what was required by the regulations. So I 
cant see it treated Mr A unfairly when it approved his credit card application. 
Mr A has said that NatWest hasnt confirmed whether knowledge of his bankruptcy wouldve 
affected its decision to offer him credit. And although I understand why Mr A would want to 
know this, Im afraid I dont think it makes any difference to his complaint. Clearly, had 
NatWest known about the bankruptcy the information wouldve been used in its decision-
making process. But this is a hypothetical scenario, and it doesnt change what actually 
happened. As Ive explained above, NatWest wouldve only known about the bankruptcy if it 
had it conducted a check with the insolvency register, as his bankruptcy no longer showed 
on his credit record due to the amount of time that had passed since it was issued. And Im 
satisfied a check with the insolvency register wasnt required in these circumstances.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman