DRN-1830026
The complaint
Mr A complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited werent clear about a 
restriction on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr As pet unfortunately passed away and when he claimed on the death 
benefit element of the policy Red Sands turned it down. They said Mr As pet was too old at 
the time she passed away. Mr A complained about this, explaining this hadnt been made 
clear to him, and if it had been, then hed have never taken out the policy.
Red Sands replied to the complaint, and explained they set out this exclusion in the policy 
documents  and the specific exclusion said for the death of any dog over the age of eight 
wont be covered.
Unhappy with this Mr A asked us to look into things, and emphasised his concern was about 
the restrictions on the death benefit not being made clear in the policy summary. He said it 
only says £500, theres no asterisks or anything to tell you to suggest his pet wouldnt have 
been insured.
Our investigator considered all the information hed been provided with but felt Red Sands 
had done enough to make Mr A aware of the restrictions on the death benefit part of the 
policy.
Mr A didnt accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say how sorry I am for Mr As loss. I can only imagine how difficult a time 
hes had.
I think its helpful to explain that if a term is significant or unusual then its expected Red 
Sands would draw this to Mr As attention. But, I dont think the term Mr A is complaining 
about  death benefit not applying for a dog over the age of eight  is significant or unusual. I 
think youd find this in most insurance policies of this type.
So, Ive looked at the documents Mr A was sent to make sure theyve done enough to draw 
his attention to this term  taking into account Im satisfied its not a significant or unusual 
term.
Mr A has pointed to the policy summary saying it offers the death benefit of £500 and has 
nothing to suggest for that term you need to look in the rest of the policy documents to 
understand the cover. For this term I agree there isnt anything directly next to it like an 
asterisk. But in the same section Mr A has pointed to, it says see your policy documentation 
for further details. I think this should reasonably have made Mr A aware there could be 
other things he may have needed to take into account in understanding all aspects of his 
policy.
And, looking at the policy document itself in the section under whats not covered, it says 
Death due to illness of your pet aged 8 years or older.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Red Sands did enough to make Mr A aware of 
the death benefit term. So, while I understand this will come as a big disappointment to him, 
I wont be asking Red Sands to meet Mr As claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman