DRN-1558321
 
The complaint
 Mr Gs representative, a claims management company (CMC), feels that following the sale 
of his business, the advice that he was given by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) on how to 
invest his money was unsuitable.
The CMC believes that he was advised to invest too much money, and that the timing of the 
advice was inappropriate. They are also concerned that the cash was invested into a single 
asset class which meant he was exposed to too much risk.
 What happened
Mr G had recently sold his business and received £1,500,000 in cash.
He held this in two bank accounts - £1,000,000 in a BOS account, the balance in an account 
with a different bank - and contacted BOS for investment advice.
Over two months, Mr G had three meetings with one of BOSs advisers where his 
requirements, circumstances, and attitude to risk were discussed. BOS advised that his risk 
appetite was considered medium. However, Mr G then voiced concerns about equity 
markets, and a call was arranged with BOSs investment management company. After these 
meetings and calls, a recommendation was made.
The advice was to invest half of his available cash, (£750,000) into a Personal Investment 
Plan (PIP) and leave the other half in cash. Although Mr Gs risk appetite was medium, 
given his concerns, he selected a 50% Gilt & Fixed Interest Fund, and 50% Index-Linked Gilt 
Fund. This was considered lower than medium risk.
Nearly four months after the initial meeting, the amount was changed from £750,000 to 
£1,018,837, and a week later the investment was made.
Around nine months later, Mr G withdrew £550,000 from the PIP, and another eight months 
after that, he surrendered it for £494,058. Over the 17 months of investment, Mr G had made 
a gain of £25,221.
The CMC thinks that Mr G was poorly advised by BOS, specifically; that he wasnt given 
enough time to adjust to his change in circumstances; and that they had advised him to 
invest too much money. BOS rejected the complaint, so the CMC brought it to our service 
where one of our investigators looked at it. The investigator felt that the advice given by BOS 
wasnt unsuitable, in the circumstances.
The CMC disagreed and so the complaint was passed on to me.  The CMC said that they 
did not agree with the investigator that Mr G had instigated or agreed to the increase in 
investment sum, and stated that when he had said he was concerned about investigating in 
equities, he had meant that he was concerned about taking any level of risk, and that the 
investment in two gilt funds - essentially one asset class - had significantly increased 
concentration risk. The CMC also raised concerns about fixed income funds not being tax efficient, being more for income generation than capital growth, and Mr G had wanted tax 
efficiency and capital growth for his investment.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and I will explain why.
BOS provided a business file containing a fact find, suitability report, key features 
documents, and investment illustration for Mr Gs case. They appear to have been thorough 
in dealing with Mr G, taking due consideration for the big change in his working and financial 
position.
Regarding the question in the initial complaint about timing, I have seen that Mr G had a 
number of meetings to go through his situation and the options available to him, and these 
took place over four months from initial meeting to investment. I feel that this was enough 
time for him to decide what to do.
With regards to the size of the investment being too large, I have read that initially the advice 
was to invest £750,000 but this was raised to £1,018,837. However, from the business file, 
containing Mr Gs income and expenditure, it is clear that he had enough cash available after 
the investment to fund himself and his family for a long period of time, and the CMC appears 
to agree in their response to our investigators findings:
I agree that Mr Gs investment of just over £1,000,000 was affordable for him and that he 
had sufficient cash reserves elsewhere.
Then the CMC goes on to say: 
However, the decision to increase........was instigated by the adviser and not Mr G himself. I 
do not accept that Mr G did agree to invest the higher amount.
Whilst the initial complaint did not refer to Mr G having not agreed to the increase, I do not 
think it is relevant who instigated the conversation  BOS advised Mr G that he had 
requested to invest more than the recommended £750,000, and one week later Mr G made 
the investment of £1,018,837. It is highly unlikely that he did not agree to, or was not aware 
of this.
With regards to Mr Gs concerns about risk, it appears that he was considered of medium 
appetite; however, before selecting funds, he voiced concerns over equities. Given these 
concerns, I think BOS acted reasonably in advising him to speak to their affiliated investment 
management company about the alternatives. Having had that conversation, the 
recommendation was to invest in two fixed interest funds, with risk being concentrated in UK 
government securities. This choice was considered lower than medium risk, however, I do 
not think it was unreasonable of BOS given a) Mr Gs concerns, and b) the access he had to 
the investment manager and fund information that BOS provided.
I agree with the CMCs argument that the products that BOS advised were not tax efficient, 
as Mr G had requested in his early meetings however, I believe this requirement was 
superseded by his aversion to risk, particularly equities, which came after the initial risk 
assessment.The question of there being too much risk in investing in one asset class is interesting. 
Ordinarily, diversification of assets - spreading the risk across, and potentially getting higher 
gains from a mix of asset classes - is deemed to be a safer and more sensible approach to 
investing. However, in this particular set of circumstances, and at this time (equity markets 
were in free fall world wide), BOS had a client who had a lot of money to invest in one go, 
had access to enough cash to fund his expenses, and importantly (and with the benefit of 
hindsight, wisely) had expressed a clear aversion to equity investing.
Over the period of the investment plan, Mr G gained over £25,000, which after adjusting for 
the withdrawal of £550,000 almost half way through, suggests a return of over 3%. During 
the same period, the FTSE 100 index ended down nearly 2% (although that does not include 
dividends), but was down as much as over 30% six months after the investment, which 
would have been far outside of the risk tolerance that Mr G had indicated to BOS.  Whilst I 
dont know exactly what was said, it is my view that BOS would have made it clear to Mr G 
the characteristics of the funds through meetings and phone calls. It is also clear from the 
fund key documents that he was investing in a lower risk product, and, whilst his capital was 
at very low risk, that meant his returns were also likely to be lower.
Given Mr Gs circumstances and the concerns he raised at the time, I do not think BOS 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and therefore cant uphold the complaint.
 My final decision
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Christian Holder
Ombudsman