DRN-4163400
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage Mr and Mrs M hold with Progressive 
Building Society (PBS). Their complaint comprises two broad elements:
The mortgage was unsuitable and therefore mis-sold at the outset; and
Mr and Mrs M are in negative equity and have no means of repaying or even reducing 
the capital balance; they dont believe PBS has done enough to help them address this 
situation.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs M and PBS Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. Our investigator thought PBS 
had dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt recommend it be upheld.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the complaint, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M took the mortgage out in 2007, on the advice and recommendation of a third 
party mortgage broker. They were first-time buyers, and borrowed £161,550 to buy a 
property for £170,000. The mortgage was interest-only, and initially was on a two-year fixed 
rate of 5.99%. When that initial rate expired, Mr and Mr M took a new fixed rate, and 
continued to do periodically during the life of the mortgage. 
Soon after the mortgage started in 2007, the global financial crisis occurred, and property 
values generally fell. In Mr and Mrs Ms specific case, the fall left them in substantial 
negative equity and, because values havent recovered to any degree in their location, the 
value of their home remains well below the amount they owe PBS on the mortgage. Theyve 
maintained their monthly interest payments throughout the time theyve had the mortgage, 
but they have no repayment strategy for the capital debt and little in the way of surplus 
income.
Mr and Mrs M asked PBS for help in 2021, when their most recent fixed rate ended and they 
went onto PBSs standard variable rate (SVR). They say they were offered  on the phone 
but not in writing  a discounted variable rate for three years, which they didnt think would 
help them. Theyd still be in negative equity and have no means to repay the shortfall. 
Mr and Mrs M asked for help again in 2022; they said they thought the mortgage had been 
mis-sold in 2007, and asked PBS to write off a portion of the negative equity and offer a 
long-term fixed rate. This time, PBSs replied in a final response. It said the mis-selling 
element of the complaint should be addressed to the broker that had sold the mortgage. It 
then offered Mr and Mrs M four options aimed at addressing their current situation. These 
were:
1. pay a lump sum off the mortgage to reduce the balance;
2. convert the mortgage to capital repayment;
3. consider letting the property out; and
4. arrange an appointment for another discussion with a mortgage advisor to see if a better 
rate could be offered that would reduce their monthly interest and free up money to pay 
of the capital balance.
Mr and Mrs M took up option four in PBSs final response; they switched from SVR to a fixed 
rate of 3.99%, which runs until July 2024. They also referred their complaint to us. 
Notwithstanding that PBS hadnt sold the mortgage to them, Mr and Mrs M still thought it 
should take some responsibility for it. Our investigator told them he thought the first part of 
the complaint, about the origination of the mortgage in 2007, had been raised too late, and 
so fell outside our jurisdiction. As far as the second part of the complaint was concerned, he 
thought PBS had done all it could reasonably do to help Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed on both counts; the case was referred to an ombudsman colleague, 
firstly to make a decision on our remit to consider the complaint. Her decision, issued in 
March 2023, was that the complaint about the origination of the mortgage in 2007 was 
time-barred under our rules, and we could only consider whether PBS was doing enough to 
help Mr and Mrs M deal with their current situation. 
The cases reverted to the investigator who reviewed his initial findings on the second 
element of the complaint. However, he remained of the view that PBS had done as much as 
could reasonably be expected of it in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs M still disagreed so the 
case has come to me for a review and a decision on the merits of the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our consideration of a complaint. Having looked at 
the decision my ombudsman colleague issued in March 2023, I agree that we are 
time-barred by our rules from considering PBSs involvement in the origination of the 
mortgage in the form Mr and Mrs M took it out. Accordingly my final decision here is confined 
to the fairness or otherwise of PBSs response to Mr and Mrs M asking it for help in their 
current situation.
Lenders have a duty to treat their customers fairly and act in their best interests. Thats 
particularly the case for borrowers in financial difficulties. Mr and Mrs M have gone to great 
pains to point out that theyre not in arrears, and question if theyd be offered more help if they were. Financial hardship isnt just about being in arrears on loan repayments; it can 
take different forms, as does the help lenders might reasonably be expected to provide.
In Mr and Mrs Ms case, their problems are quite specific; their family is growing, they want 
to move to a bigger house, and the negative equity in their current home is the primary 
stumbling block to them doing so. I appreciate this will not be a welcome message to 
Mr and Mrs M, but the stark reality is that for borrowers in their situation, the scope for the 
lender to help is very limited.
In practical terms, the only ways negative equity can be eliminated are by the outstanding 
balance being paid down, the property value rising, or a combination of both. PBSs final 
response from 2022 reflected that conundrum, and the limitations on its capacity to help. I  
wouldnt say that a lender should reasonably be required to write off negative equity debt, as 
Mr and Mrs M have suggested PBS should have done for them. 
The four alternative courses of action PBS suggested are all reasonable proposals that Id 
generally expect a lender to offer up for borrowers to consider. However, such were 
Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances that only the last one  a discussion possibly 
leading to a new interest rate deal being agreed had any realistic chance of working for 
them. But that doesnt mean PBS was wrong to suggest the other three; as Ive said, they 
are all possibilities Id expect to be offered up for consideration. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M being reluctant to pursue the discounted variable rate that was 
put up for discussion in 2021. But even if that didnt protect against rates rising generally, it 
still amounted to a lower variable rate than SVR, so there would have been some benefit to 
them pressing PBS to make a written offer, which I think it would most likely have provided if 
asked to.
As it is, PBS has confirmed to us that Mr and Mrs M did take it up on the fourth option 
offered in the 2022 final response. They are now on a fixed rate of 3.99%, which will run until 
July 2024. If theyd remained on SVR, Mr and Mrs M would currently be being charged 
interest at 7.84%, with a further increase to 7.99% due to take place on 1 July 2023. 
That means Mr and Mrs M have been saving money on their monthly interest instalment for 
about a year now, and as of next month, their monthly interest payment will be roughly half 
what it would have been if PBS hadnt helped them. I cant know if the extra money that 
releases each month is allowing them to make extra payments to bring down the mortgage 
balance; its possibly being needed for other things. But PBS has at least given them some 
breathing space to work with, which is what I would expect of it.
Mr and Mrs M will need to be mindful of any restrictions on the amount they can overpay 
whilst on the fixed rate, without incurring an early repayment charge. If Mr and Mrs M are at 
all unsure about that, then Id encourage them to keep up a dialogue with PBS. They will, of 
course, also need to prepare for discussions about the options that might be available in the 
summer of 2024, when the current deal expires. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman