DRN-3749983
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions he didnt make. 
What happened
On 30 December 2021, Mr P received a call from someone pretending to be from 
Monzos fraud team. He said they told him someone was attempting fraud on his 
account and theyd disable his card and send a new one. They also asked him to 
enable Apple Pay so he could make payments in the meantime. 
Mr P recalled how he received further instructions from the caller, for example to 
move money from his Savings Pots and to delete his app, and how he became 
increasingly suspicious. So he hung up and contacted Monzo, and he later realised 
hed been the victim of fraud. 
Several transactions, totalling £3,685.00, were made from Mr Ps account that day 
using Apple Pay on a different device. Monzo refunded £991.40, the amount taken 
from Mr Ps overdraft as well as £0.24 in fees. But it refused to refund the remaining 
amount, saying that Mr P didnt take all the reasonable steps to protect the account. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
Monzo accepted these are unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr P failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
his personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded thats the case. Ill 
explain why.
Mr P said the caller already knew information about his account. I accept hes not 
consistently said exactly what they knew, but I think its likely they at least had and 
wouldve referenced his card details. Thats because they were used to add Apple 
Pay to the fraudsters device and neither side has alleged Mr P shared these during 
the call. From our experience with these scams, its common theyre phished 
beforehand and used to legitimise the call, as well as to facilitate the fraud. 
Taking this into account, I can see how Mr P trusted they were calling from Monzo  I 
think lots of people wouldve done. 
Mr P recalled how he was told someone was attempting payments and, after 
confirming they werent him, that theyd disable his card. They then asked him to 
approve a notification in his Monzo app to set up Apple Pay on his device  this was 
so he could pay for things while he waited for his new card. 
I can see how this sounded plausible to Mr P at the time  I dont think it sounds 
particularly different to what lots of people would expect their genuine banks fraud 
team to say. 
Monzo point out that Mr P ought to have questioned why he was setting up Apple 
Pay when hed an Android phone. I accept he couldve done, but I dont think his 
actions meant he was significantly careless here  to say that he failed with gross 
negligence. 
In saying this, Ive considered that Mr P trusted the caller and was acting in the heat 
of the moment when he was concerned about his money. 
Ive also considered that the notification wouldve appeared in the app and how Mr P 
only needed to click Add Card  notably, this was the only screen that referenced 
Apple Pay and it didnt say what device it was being added to. After that, Mr P 
wouldve entered his PIN on a separate screen and the process was complete. So, 
this wouldve all happened quickly  there werent many opportunities or warnings for 
Mr P to reflect on what he was being asked to do. 
Monzo has also mentioned how Mr P confirmed his balance with the caller and 
moved money from his Savings Pots. But I dont think these affect my consideration 
of whether Mr P failed with gross negligence to keep his personalised security details 
safe or comply with the terms and conditions of his account. Thats because they 
happened after Apple Pay was set up  and theyre not security details nor has 
Monzo explained how this breached their terms and conditions. 
Either way, I dont think its grossly negligent to have followed these instructions. 
After all, Mr P was being reassured that he was speaking with his bank, and it 
wouldve been difficult for him to have put together in the moment what someone 
couldve achieved by him doing this. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Mr Ps actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that he failed with gross negligence. So I conclude 
that he isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to put things right  by 
refunding his losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
Monzo ought to have refunded this much sooner and thats exacerbated Mr Ps 
stress and worry over the situation. So I also award £100 to reflect his non-financial 
losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Mr P the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £2,693.60.Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £100 for Mr Ps distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman