DRN-2852281
The complaint
Mr W complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined his travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr W purchased a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a holiday to Sri Lanka. He flew 
to Sri Lanka in February 2020, but on arrival and whilst loading his luggage into a taxi, Mr W 
fell over.
Mr W says he fell onto his back and banged his head on the pavement. He says he was 
lifted to his feet by the taxi driver and an airport porter, but proceeded on his way to his hotel 
as planned because no bones were broken. 
Mr W says there were a number of stairs at his hotel without handrails. He says he was 
feeling a bit sore following his fall and was scared of falling again, so decided that his health 
and well-being were more important than risking another fall. Mr W arranged a return flight 
for the day after his arrival with the assistance of his holiday provider, and he flew back to 
the UK. 
Mr W submitted a curtailment claim under his travel insurance policy. That claim was 
declined by Great Lakes which said there was no evidence to demonstrate it was medically 
necessary for Mr W to return home, and disinclination to continue a trip or abandonment due 
to diminished enjoyment of it wasnt covered. 
Mr W complained. In summary he said the terms and conditions of the travel insurance 
policy were contradictory, he hadnt needed medical assistance at the time of the fall, and 
hed made the decision to return home as he was very scared of falling again. 
Great Lakes maintained its position and so, unhappy with what had happened, Mr W 
approached this service. 
Our investigator empathised with Mr Ws position but didnt think Great Lakes had declined 
his claim unreasonably. They explained there wasnt any medical evidence to demonstrate it 
was medically necessary for Mr W to return home early, and they didnt think the terms of 
the policy were contradictory. 
Mr W disagreed with that opinion and reiterated his concerns. And so, as no agreement was 
reached the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and it must not 
reject them unreasonably. Ive thought about this when considering Mr Ws complaint, as 
well as the terms and conditions of his policy and the particular circumstances of his claim. 
Mr W has set out quite clearly why he was scared of falling again. Like the investigator 
before me, I too empathise with his position, but for the following reasons I cannot fairly 
conclude that Great Lakes acted unreasonably in declining this claim:
The policy terms set out that Great Lakes/its medical assistance company must be 
notified as soon as possible of any illness or injury before any repatriation 
arrangements are made. They also set out that Great Lakes will not be liable for any 
repatriation expenses or fees which havent been notified to, and authorised by, it or 
its medical assistance company. Mr W did not contact Great Lakes or its medical 
assistance company in advance of making arrangements to return home, so he did 
not satisfy these terms.
Mr W has explained why he felt it was necessary to return home. He also says he 
considers his fear of falling to be a medical condition, and that more attention is being 
paid to anxiety and fear in the medical press. I appreciate Mr Ws opinion on this, but 
aside from his testimony there isnt any contemporaneous medical evidence to 
demonstrate that his return home was considered medically necessary and/or safe. 
And there isnt any medical evidence to demonstrate that his fear of falling has been 
diagnosed as a specific medical condition. 
Establishing whether Mr W returning home was necessary and unavoidable is 
something Great Lakes would have wanted to do prior to agreeing any cover for him. 
But Great Lakes was unable to do this, because Mr W did not contact it in advance of 
arranging his return. 
There is no cover within Mr Ws policy for disinclination to continue a trip, or the 
abandonment of one due to diminished enjoyment. Again, I empathise with the 
situation Mr W found himself in and I accept he was scared of having another fall. But 
by not contacting Great Lakes or its medical assistance company at the time, he 
restricted Great Lakes ability to assess his individual circumstances and have any 
input as to whether or not his return home was necessary or unavoidable. 
Based on what it now knows, Great Lakes has explained that had Mr W contacted it 
at the time, it would have likely advised him to seek medical treatment in resort. It 
has also explained that it would not have advised him to return home. I dont think 
Great Lakes position is unreasonable here, based on the evidence in this complaint. 
So it would appear that Mr W wouldnt have had a successful claim even if he had 
contacted Great Lakes at the time. In any event, I note that Mr W has since told this 
service that he probably wouldnt have paid much attention to an opinion from 
Great Lakes at the time, given his fear of falling and his position of that fear being a 
medical condition. 
Ive thought about the points Mr W has raised in relation to contradictory terms, but 
like our investigator, I dont think the terms hes highlighted are contradictory. Mr Ws 
policy sets out that Great Lakes must be notified as soon as possible of any illness or 
injury, and it further sets out what a policy holder should do if they needed to seek 
medical assistance in a non-emergency. Mr W says his fall wasnt an emergency and 
he didnt need to seek medical assistance so wasnt in violation of any terms. But I 
dont think that means it automatically follows that a policy holder would, or should, 
be covered in the event of them choosing to return home without any input from or 
knowledge of Great Lakes. The policy made it clear that Great Lakes had to be 
notified of any illness or injury, and Mr W did not do that. I accept that he did not 
consider he needed any medical attention, but the abandonment of his trip needed to 
be considered medically necessary, and as I have set out above, there is no 
evidence in the case to show that it was.I fully appreciate that Mr W considered his situation warranted a return home. But I 
cannot ask an insurer to cover a claim solely on the grounds of a policy holder 
demining that the course of action they took was warranted. And although I 
understand why Mr W chose to cut his trip short, there just isnt sufficient evidence in 
this complaint for me to fairly conclude that Mr W satisfied the terms of his policy, or 
that Great Lakes acted unreasonably in declining his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman