DRN-3795395
The complaint
Miss I complains about a default registered against her by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Miss I had a loan with Santander which was due to be repaid in full on 1 May 2020. 
Unfortunately Miss I became unwell and was signed off work from the early part of 2020 
onwards. She missed her contracted repayments for March and April 2020 and called 
Santander on 21 April 2020 to discuss matters. When she called, Miss I said she wanted to 
repay the arrears in full and had the money to do so. But Santander advised her to enter a 
payment arrangement instead to pay the arrears and remaining balance (a total of £853.62).
Miss I agreed to pay £72 by 1 May 2020 and by the first of each month for 12 months. She 
stuck to that arrangement initially but was late with the payment due on 1 September; she 
paid on 18 September 2020. Miss I says she had spoken to Santanders loans department 
and was assured it would be fine provided she paid before 19 September 2020.
Santander wrote to Miss I on 9 September 2020 advising that shed broken the arrangement, 
so the arrears were to be paid in full. By that time the total had reduced to £561.62. The 
letter said. if youve already paid this or spoken to us in the last few days to make a new 
arrangement, please ignore this letter. Miss I didnt make contact, but made her payment on 
18 September 2020 and made the next two payments (due 1 October and 1 November 
2020), on time. She made the instalment due on 1 December 2020 two days late.
Santander registered a default against Miss I on 9 December 2020 and passed the account 
to a debt collector. She complained to Santander in January 2021.
Santander looked into Miss Is complaint. It said the arrangement put in place had been 
broken when the payment due by 1 September 2020 hadnt been made. It said it had written 
to her in September and October 2020 prior to issuing a default notice on 4 November 2020. 
As Miss I didnt contact it, a default was applied on 9 December 2020. Santander rejected 
her complaint.
Miss I was unhappy with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said it was clear the payment 
arrangement had been broken when the payment due on 1 September 2020 wasnt made on 
time. Our investigator noted that Santander had written to Miss I several times after that 
asking for full repayment or contact. As no contact was made and the balance wasnt paid in 
full, she felt it was reasonable for Santander to apply the default.
Santander accepted what our investigator said, but Miss I didnt. She said, in summary that 
the letters were unclear that contact was required, as she had made payments in the 
meantime. As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and think Miss Is complaint should be 
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
When Miss I contacted Santander on 21 April 2020, shed missed two monthly repayments 
 a total of £570. A further, final instalment of £285 was due on 1 May 2020. From the outset 
of the call, Miss I explained to the advisor shed been off sick for a while with health 
conditions including anxiety and she wanted to repay the arrears. She explained she had 
£800 she could use to do so. She explained several times she was keen to repay the loan 
and knowing she was in arrears was causing her stress.
The adviser acknowledged what she said but suggested a repayment plan might be better 
for her. Over the course of the first 20 minutes of the hour-long call, Miss I reiterated several 
times that she just wanted to pay the £800 as the matter was causing her too much stress. It 
is clear from listening to the call, that this is what she wanted to do. The advisor however 
kept repeating that he felt the best solution for Miss I would be to set up an arrangement to 
spread the arrears  including the final payment - over a longer time. Eventually, Miss I 
accepted what the advisor said and agreed to the arrangement mentioned earlier. She made 
the first payment on 28 April 2020.
Ive thought carefully about how this call was handled. I can fully understand why the advisor 
thought the arrangement may be better for Miss I, and I dont think he did anything wrong by 
suggesting it. But I do think he could have handled matters differently. Miss I said numerous 
times she just wanted to pay off the loan as it was causing her stress  something which 
wont have been helping her health conditions.
The advisor was concerned that Miss I appeared to be using all her available funds to make 
this payment, including money borrowed from her brother for this purpose. She assured him 
however this was what she wanted to do. She said she had food and drink available, and her 
brother was helping her when needed. I think at this stage, the advisor ought to have 
accepted what Miss I wanted and taken the payment. Afterall, Miss I knew her 
circumstances better than anyone and was best placed to make the decision.
Had the advisor accepted the £800 Miss I wanted to pay, this would have left a small 
balance of around £50 to repay on 1 May 2020. Ive no reason to think that Miss I would 
have been unable to make that payment. The loan would then have been repaid in full and 
what happened afterwards would not have transpired.
But after some time, Miss I accepted the advice she received and agreed to the 
arrangement. She made payments ahead of the due date, until 1 September 2020. 
Santander wrote to her on 9 September 2020 to say the arrangement had been broken. It 
offered the opportunity to discuss a payment plan and went on to say if shed already paid or 
spoken to the bank, she could ignore the letter.
Miss I says she spoke to the bank and was assured everything would be ok provided the 
payment was made by 19 September 2020  she made it on the 18 September 2020 
bringing payments under the original arrangement up to date.
Santander has acknowledged that Miss I spoke to it on 19 September 2020 but says this 
was relating to a different matter and was with a team which had no control over her loan. It 
said if she had spoken to the loan collections team, its likely the arrangement would have 
been reset.
Miss I resumed payments on 28 September and 28 October 2020 (due 1 October and 1 November respectively). But in the meantime, on 22 October and 3 November 2020, 
Santander wrote again saying the arrangement had broken and the full arrears were due. It 
followed this up with a default notice on 4 November 2020 demanding £345.62 within 28 
days or a default would be registered at the credit reference agencies.
Miss I then made a further monthly payment of £72 on 3 December 2020  albeit two days 
late. On 9 December 2020, Santander registered the default and passed the account to a 
debt collector. As I understand it, Miss I continued to pay £72 each month until the loan was 
fully settled in accordance with the arrangement agreed in the April call.
From a technical point of view, Santander has followed its process. Miss Is credit agreement 
had come to an end on 1 May 2020, so at that stage, the outstanding amount was due 
immediately. But Santander agreed an arrangement with Miss I. That arrangement was 
broken when a payment wasnt received on or before 1 September 2020 and it has no 
record of a discussion between its loans team and Miss I. But my role is to look at 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis  not purely a technical one. Im not persuaded 
that Santander has treated Miss I fairly and reasonably by registering a default against her. 
Let me explain why.
Santander wrote to Miss I a number of times following the late payment in September. But 
on each occasion barring the first, she was on track and up to date with the arrangement 
proposed by the advisor back in April 2020. The letters said if shed paid or had made an 
arrangement, she could ignore them; she believed she had. And at the time the default was 
registered, shed made all the payments that were due under the arrangement and its my 
understanding that she continued to do so until the loan was repaid in full.
So the default was registered effectively because she was 17 days late with one payment 
and 2 days late with another under the agreement she had been persuaded to enter into. 
This seems to me to be unduly harsh and not fair and reasonable given the impact a default 
can have on a customer.
Furthermore, as Ive noted earlier on, Miss I had been keen to repay the loan on time. She 
had the means to do so and had told Santander that having the loan ongoing would cause 
her more stress than simply repaying it. While I dont doubt the intentions of the advisor, if 
hed accepted what shed said rather than encouraging the arrangement, Miss I would not 
have entered into it and would not have found herself in this position.
It seems to me more likely than not, that had the call in April 2020 been handled as Miss I 
had wanted, shed have repaid the loan on time in May 2020 and not suffered the resulting 
distress of having a default on her credit file. She was clearly stressed an anxious when she 
called and had a clear view of how she wanted to resolve matters. She spent 20 minutes 
reiterating her view to Santander. She was persuaded during the call, to enter into the 
arrangement which then went wrong  something shed said she was concerned about at 
the time  causing her further distress and inconvenience.
For the reasons Ive set out, I intend to uphold Miss Is complaint.
Putting things right
When we uphold a complaint, we aim to put the consumer in the position they would have 
been in had the problem not occurred. In this instance, I think Miss I would have repaid the 
loan in full on 1 May 2020 without the need for the payment arrangement. Her credit file 
should reflect that position. Santander should:Update Miss Is credit file to remove the default and show the loan as having been 
settled on 1 May 2020.
Pay Miss I £150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused her.
Both Santander and Miss I have accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to 
depart from it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should settle this complaint as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman