DRN-3301132
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited has not provided tailored support when he was in 
financial difficulties.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint as I understand it is that Mr C feels Santander have not followed 
guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about providing tailored support for 
financial difficulties caused by COVID-19. 
Mr C was unable to work during the pandemic and due to him being self-employed, was not 
eligible for support under the furlough scheme. As a result, he struggled to meet his monthly 
repayments for his two MBNA credit card accounts.
He was granted a three-month payment deferral for both accounts in April 2020. The 
payment deferral meant that Mr C did not have to make any payments to his credit card 
accounts during that time and this would not be reported on his credit file. However, interest 
would continue to accrue on the accounts. At that time, he was unable to work due to the 
pandemic and had no indication of when he would go back to work, and he was eligible for 
the payment deferral. And I think the short-term solution of a payment holiday at that time 
was reasonable in the circumstances. So, I think MBNA was correct to grant Mr C the initial 
three-month deferral. 
This was extended for a further three months in July 2020. Again, Mr Cs situation had not 
changed and he was unable to meet his monthly payments at the time. But it was unclear if 
the situation would change due to the pandemic, so I think the short-term solution of a 
further three-month deferral period was reasonable. 
Following the payment deferral, Mr C contacted MBNA and advised he was still facing 
financial difficulties and could not meet his minimum repayments, which was confirmed with 
his income and expenditure assessment showing a negative income. So, Ive considered if 
MBNA tried to help Mr C. I can see that they froze the interest on both accounts in 
November 2020 and arranged a 30 day breathing space on both accounts, meaning no 
payment was due that month. And I can see that in January, some interest was refunded on 
both accounts. Looking at this, I think that MBNA did make steps to help Mr C once he 
contacted them and let them know he was struggling, which is what I would have expected 
them to do.
In MBNAs final response letter issued in November 2020 they state that the short-term 
options have been exhausted and they now need to move to long term financial difficulty 
solutions for Mr C. They confirm that no interest will be charged on the account but that 
missed payments will need to be recorded on Mr Cs credit file and there was a possibility 
the accounts could default if Mr C continued not to meet his contractual payments. 
I can see the accounts did eventually default in May 2021 due to Mr C missing payments 
and that he was sent notices of default for both accounts prior to this. Mr C was unhappy 
with this and wanted his payments to be frozen, no interest charged and for this not to affect 
his credit file as his situation was still being affected by the pandemic. Meaning he 
essentially wanted a further extension of the payment holiday. He said that MBNA were not 
following the FCAs tailored support guidance by not continuing to offer a payment holiday.
The FCAS tailored support guidance states that the maximum time payment deferrals can 
be provided which would not affect credit files is 6 months. Following that, further payment 
deferrals could be provided by lenders, but these would need to be reported on credit files in 
accordance with usual reporting processes. So I think that MBNAs offer to freeze interest 
and charges on Mr Cs credit card accounts and accept no payments, with the 
understanding missed payments would still be reported to the credit referencing agencies is 
fair and in line with the tailored support guidance set out by the FCA. It follows that I think 
MBNA acted reasonably when they defaulted Mr Cs credit card accounts following non-
payment in May 2021.
In summary, I think MBNA have acted fairly in the circumstances and I dont think they have 
made an error.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman