DRN-2898353
Complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to his overdraft charged, as a result of changing its overdraft pricing structure, when 
it ought to have realised that he was experiencing financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
that Mr Fs overdraft had become unsustainable for him by January 2018 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Fs overdraft from this point. 
Lloyds didnt respond. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Fs overdraft in 
January 2018. 
By this point, Lloyds would have seen that Mr F had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Mr Fs account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. Mr Fs statements also show that he was borrowing from 
a number of shirt-term and other high cost lenders. And he also had direct debits being 
returned too. Equally, I cant see that sufficient funds were being credited such that it could 
reasonably be concluded Mr F would more likely than not have been able to repay his 
overdraft within a reasonable period of time either. 
So I think that by January 2018, Lloyds should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr F with forbearance rather than adding even more fees and 
charges on the overdraft. And this means that Lloyds should have realised Mr F was 
experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. 
As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Fs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And as this led to Mr F paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of Lloyds failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So Lloyds needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Fs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from January 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Fs credit 
file, it should backdate this to January 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Fs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman