DRN-3856814
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds decision to 
decline a claim made under their landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D have a landlord insurance policy underwritten by Watford which covers 
buildings and contents, amongst other things, for a property they own and rent out.
They made a claim in January 2022 after discovering that tenants had set up a cannabis 
farm in the property causing extensive damage.
Watford declined the claim. They said Mrs D and Mr Ds policy covered them for malicious 
damage caused by tenants, but there was an exclusion for damage or loss caused as a 
result of building alterations, renovations or repair.
They said the claim Mrs D and Mr D were making was for damage caused when the tenants 
carried out alterations to the home. And this damage wasnt covered because the exclusion 
applied.
Mrs D and Mr D werent happy with this and made a complaint to Watford, but they 
maintained that the exclusion had been properly applied and the damage wasnt covered.
Mrs D and Mr D then brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and upheld 
the complaint. He said the exclusion relied upon by Watford was unfairly restrictive and 
worded ambiguously. 
He thought Watford should pay for the required repairs or reimburse Mrs D and Mr D (adding 
interest at 8% simple) if the repairs had already been carried out and paid for.
Watford disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We take the view that any damage caused when tenants set up a cannabis farm in a 
property is malicious damage. That damage is caused intentionally and is intended to cause 
harm.
When Mrs D and Mr D took out the policy, they decided to add optional buildings cover 
specifically for accidental or malicious damage and theft by tenants.
Theres no dispute in this case that the tenants at Mrs D and Mr Ds property caused 
malicious damage by setting up the cannabis farm. For example, they added lights and 
ventilation to aid the growing of the plants which caused damage to the structure of the 
house.
Watfords analysis of the claim is correct then, in so far as it brings us directly to the relevant 
section of the policy  the optional cover for malicious damage by tenants. The dispute is 
about the meaning of the exclusion set out in that section which applies to loss or damage 
caused by the tenants:
As a result of any building alterations, renovations or repairs
Our investigator thought this clause was unfairly restrictive because if we take the widest 
definition of the word alteration then any damage is by definition an alteration and would 
not be covered. For example, damage caused by a brick thrown at a wall in an act of wanton 
vandalism is an alteration to the wall. 
If we accept that, the supposed cover provided here  and paid for by the policyholder - 
would in fact cover nothing at all. Which would be unfair.
Watfords response to this argument was that the cover is meaningful because cover would 
be provided if the tenants had simply smashed up the property. 
By implication, I believe Watford are saying that cover caused in essence for its own sake is 
covered, but where an alteration to the property is carried out for some wider purpose  for 
example, growing cannabis  then the exclusion applies and there is no cover.
Whilst this is an interesting semantic or philosophical argument, I think what it does show is 
that the wording of the exclusion as it is set out in the policy is not entirely unambiguous. 
If I put myself in the position of a potential purchaser of the policy, I might be inclined to read 
the exclusion to mean that alterations such as knocking through walls to create an open plan 
space or to remove fireplaces or cornices, for example  would not be covered. 
I might also be inclined to think that criminal damage to create a suitable environment for 
drug production, for example, would be covered. Thats not a home alteration, renovation or 
repair, its criminal and malicious re-purposing of the property without regard for the damage 
caused.
In my view, thats the most natural reading of the meaning of the exclusion. Its certainly one 
reasonable and justifiable reading of it. And that means the exclusion as set out in the policy 
is in fact, at best, ambiguous. 
Our view is that where there is ambiguity in a policy term, its usually fair to interpret that 
term in the way most beneficial to the policyholder rather than the insurer. Thats because 
its the insurer who writes the policy terms - and they are the expert in this situation, not the 
policyholder. 
The insurer, in other words, should be expected to accept responsibility for any way in which 
the customer may have been misled (even if inadvertently) by a lack of clarity in the policy 
wording.
Its important to note here that Watford arent obliged to offer policies which will cover 
damage caused by the setting up of cannabis farms. 
If the policy had explicitly said that such damage wasnt covered, then no-one could have 
been in any doubt about the meaning of the policy terms. Some policies explicitly exclude damage caused by illegal activity  again, this is a fairly 
unambiguous way to set out what the policy will and will not cover. I note that Watford 
include that kind of exclusion in this policy - but its restricted to any illegal act carried out by 
the policyholder and/or their family (not tenants).
Other policies exclude damage caused by someone who is lawfully in the property. That 
exclusion isnt included in this policy. Which is unsurprising, I suppose, given that there is the 
option to take additional cover specifically to insure against damage caused accidentally or 
maliciously by tenants.
In summary, Im satisfied that on balance the policy term on which Watford sought to rely in 
declining Mrs D and Mr Ds claim is ambiguous. Read in one way, the exclusion would apply 
in this case. Read in another  perfectly reasonable and justifiable  way, it would not. And 
that being the case, it would be unfair for Watford to decline the claim on that basis.
I believe Watford intended to exclude this kind of damage. But Im also satisfied that they 
could have realised that intention by setting out what they meant in clear and unambiguous 
terms. That they failed to do so is their responsibility, not their policyholders. 
Putting things right
Im not sure whether Mrs D and Mr D have as yet had the necessary repairs to the damage 
caused by their tenants carried out or not.
If they have not, then Watford must accept the claim and carry out or pay for the repairs in 
line with the remaining policy terms.
If they have had the repairs carried out, Watford must reimburse them  on receipt of 
invoices or other proof of payment  and add 8% simple interest calculated from the day(s) 
Mrs D and Mr D paid for the repair work to the date Watford make this payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint. 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must:
carry out or pay for the repairs to Mrs D and Mr Ds property; or
if those repairs have already been carried out, reimburse Mrs D and Mr D their costs, 
on receipt of acceptable proof of payment, and add interest at 8% simple from the 
date Mrs D and Mr D paid for the work to the date Watford make this payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman