DRN-3601866
The complaint
Mr D and Ms S complain about the service they received on a cashback payment they 
believe they were entitled to when they arranged their new mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC. 
They want Lloyds to honour the £750 cashback offer.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into them in depth. 
In summary, Mr D and Ms S made a re-mortgage application with Lloyds on 9 November 
2021. The advisor told Mr D and Ms S of a potential cashback offer if they upgraded to a 
specific bank account with Lloyds. As Mr D and Ms S didnt have the account they were told 
that, if they decided to upgrade to that account they needed to let the advisor know so the 
right product code could be applied to their mortgage offer for them to be able to redeem the 
cashback offer.
Mr D and Ms Ss mortgage offer was produced on 1 December 2021 and the re-mortgage 
completed on 31 January 2021. Mr D and Ms S say they tried to upgrade to the relevant 
account but were unable to do so. They say they werent able to upgrade online because 
they kept getting an error message. 
So they tried to contact Lloyds by phone, but werent able to speak to an advisor because 
the lines were busy and eventually after waiting the calls were disconnected. Mr D and Ms S 
also said they emailed the advisor but got no response. So they complained to Lloyds that 
they missed out on the cashback offer because of these issues. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint and say it was for Mr D and Ms S to upgrade the account. 
And that the cashback would only have been applied if Mr D and Ms S had upgraded the 
account and subsequently contacted Lloyds to change the product code on the mortgage 
offer before completing their mortgage. Lloyds did offer £30 for the poor service when Mr D 
and Ms S tried to contact it. 
Mr D and Ms S didnt agree so referred the complaint to us. Our investigator said they 
thought Lloyds offer was fair and didnt think Mr D and Ms S were entitled to the cashback 
offer. 
Mr D and Ms S didnt think it was fair, and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The mortgage product that Mr D and Ms S applied for didnt include a cashback offer. 
Having considered the call Mr D and Ms S had with the advisor it was highlighted to them 
that if they upgraded the account then they could potentially benefit from the offer but they 
would need to contact Lloyds again to amend the product. However, that would have led to a 
new mortgage offer being issued, which itself could have been on different terms to the offer 
of 1 December 2021. 
It was not for Lloyds to arrange the upgrade of Mr D and Ms Ss bank account but for them 
to do this and let Lloyds mortgage advisor know that this had been done so they could make 
the relevant changes to their mortgage product. 
Mr D and Ms S say they tried to upgrade the account online but were unable to do so. Lloyds 
have explained that there can be a number of reasons as to why an account might not be 
able to be upgraded online, such as needing further information. So I dont think it was an 
unreasonable reason that this wasnt possible at the time when Mr D and Ms S tried to do 
this. 
Mr D and Ms S also say they tried to call Lloyds on a couple of occasions but after waiting in 
a queue the call disconnected. Lloyds have told us that its not unusual for calls to be 
disconnected when there are long wait times this is to prevent customers waiting for long 
periods of time and possibly incurring high call charges whilst waiting. 
Mr D and Ms S have told us they called during lunch breaks and Lloyds have explained 
these are usually its busier times. So again, I dont think it was unreasonable for this to have 
happened. Mr D and Ms S could have tried to call at other times when it may have been 
quieter like later in the evening or at weekends. 
Lloyds says that Mr D and Ms S could also have upgraded the account at a local branch. But 
Mr D and Ms S say that it didnt occur to them to go to a branch and because they have a 
young family they attempted the channels which were most convenient for them. 
I appreciate it may have been an inconvenience to have to go into branch, but Lloyds have 
told us Mr D and Ms S had a number of branches in their locality. And as they had been 
unsuccessful in upgrading their account by the other channels, I think it would have been 
reasonable of them to try through a branch as it was for them to upgrade the account before 
the completion of their mortgage if they wanted the cashback offer. 
Mr D and Ms S have told us they sent an email to the mortgage advisor when they werent 
able to upgrade the account. This was during the festive period and the advisor was on 
leave which isnt unusual, but I cant see they responded on their return as I would have 
expected. However even if they had responded sooner, they would only have been able to 
refer Mr D and Ms S to upgrade the account online, over the phone or in branch because 
this wasnt something the advisor was able to do themselves.
So overall I think the compensation of £30 already offered by Lloyds for the inconvenience 
caused due to the service issues is fair in the circumstances. So I wont be asking Lloyds to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jag DhupharOmbudsman