DRN-3598555
The complaint
Mr W complains that advice given to him by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (LCL) 
about his pension savings in 2014 was based on a fundamental misunderstanding of the 
regulations concerning the application of lifetime allowances (LTA). And he further 
complains that LCL failed to make him aware of its limitations in providing financial advice 
when he made it aware that he owned property in Ireland, and resided there for part of the 
year.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld and what LCL needed to do in order to 
put things right. Both parties have received a copy of my provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
In December 2010 Mr W retired and took pension benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS). Subsequently he was offered, and accepted, a new role 
that would provide him with a substantial annual income. As that new income was 
significantly in excess of his normal expenditure (after accounting for his pension 
income from the OPS) he sought advice from LCL about making additional pension 
contributions to minimise his liability to income tax.
Mr W was provided with advice by LCL in February 2014. As part of its advice LCL 
identified that Mr W would be able to make a pension contribution of £100,971 in that 
tax year, when considering his income and past allowances that were carried 
forward. But in April 2014 legislation would reduce the LTA available from £1.5M to 
£1.25. LCL identified that, after considering the value of Mr Ws occupational 
pension, and his other pension savings, making that contribution would place him in 
excess of the new LTA limit.
So LCL recommended that Mr W apply for fixed protection (FP2014) to retain his 
LTA at £1.5M. But the downside of making that application was that Mr W gave up 
the ability to make future pension contributions.
In 2020 Mr W complained that LCLs calculations of his LTA position in 2014 had 
been incorrect. Rather than exceeding the LTA, Mr W says that his true position left 
him with approximately £300,000 of unused allowance (based on the lower £1.25M 
allowance) after his additional contribution had been made. So he says there was no 
need to take the FP2014 and that he could have continued to make pension 
contributions for a number of years, and so benefitted from the associated income 
tax relief.
 
In 2020 Mr W was living in his second home in Ireland at the start of the coronavirus 
pandemic. Due to restrictions on travel Mr W told LCL that he though it possible that 
he would remain in Ireland for the remainder of the year, and potentially beyond, and 
so his tax residence might change. He sought advice from LCL about the income tax 
implications of that change.
At that time LCL provided Mr W with some new terms and conditions. Those made 
Mr W aware that LCL did not have the required permissions to provide him with 
advice when he was in any overseas location, regardless of whether that location 
was in the European Economic Area (EEA). Mr W says he cannot find any reference 
to that restriction in any earlier terms and conditions hed been provided with. But 
since LCL assured him the new terms did not change their previous working 
relationship he assumes they had been present from the start. And since LCL was 
aware that he spent at least part of each year abroad he thinks LCL acted 
unreasonably in accepting him as a client and taking an annual advice charge.
As my starting point for considering this complaint I have looked at the advice that 
was provided to Mr W by LCL in 2014. And in particular I have reviewed in detail the 
calculations that LCL performed to assess Mr Ws current utilisation of his pensions 
LTA. Having done so, I entirely agree with Mr Ws conclusion that the basic premise 
of that assessment was incorrect.
 
Mr W had already taken some pension benefits in 2010. Those were in the form of an 
annuity provided by his OPS. When those benefits were taken the scheme 
administrator was required to calculate the equivalent value of the benefits so they 
can be tested, both at that time and in future, against the relevant LTA. In 2010 the 
scheme administrator calculated Mr Ws pension benefits to be valued at £1,077,924. 
And at that time, since the LTA was set at £1.8M, those benefits equated to 59.88% 
of the LTA.
In April 2012 the LTA was reduced to £1.5M. And, as Ive noted earlier, the LTA was 
reduced once again in April 2014, to £1.25M. But the relevant legislation, contained 
in the Finance Act 2004 states that;
The correct method for calculating LTA usage requires the past crystallised 
amount be indexed at the same rate the standard LTA has been indexed.
So, following the reduction of the LTA in April 2014, a proportionate reduction in the 
value of Mr W pension benefits already taken should have been applied. That means 
those OPS benefits should have been determined to have a value of £748,500.
At that time Mr W held other pension savings valued at £94,693. And as I said earlier 
LCL had advised him to make a one-off pension contribution of £100,971. So taken 
together LCL should have concluded that Mr W had remaining headroom of 
£305,778 before he reached the new, lower, LTA limit.
LCLs calculations were flawed  instead it concluded that making the additional 
contribution would place Mr W above the revised LTA limit. It had failed to apply the 
required indexation to Mr Ws previously taken pension benefits. Whilst I accept that 
LCL is entirely correct in saying its advisor had gathered the correct information, and 
was aware of the pension benefits Mr W had already taken, it seems beyond 
question that the advisor based their recommendation on incorrect analysis.
But that in itself doesnt mean that the recommendation was incorrect  or that Mr W 
has lost out. I have no way of knowing for certain what Mr Ws decision would have 
been had the correct information been provided to him. But Mr W has provided us, 
and LCL, with what appears to be well considered and honest testimony about his 
likely decision. I entirely accept that testimony is provided with the benefit of hindsight  and there is a possibility that Mr Ws testimony might be influenced by later 
changes in legislation and recent investment performance. But I have no reasons to 
doubt what he says, and think it reasonable to use that testimony as the basis for my 
decision.
Mr W has told us that, had the true LTA position been explained to him in 2014, he 
would not have applied for FP2014, and would have continued making pension 
contributions. And given what he has told us about his income at the time, and the 
clear rationale that he provided to LCL about wanting to minimise his taxation liability, 
I think that what Mr W has said is entirely plausible.
Mr W has said that he would have expected to make further pension contributions of
£125,000 over the following years. It appears to me those would have been 
affordable based on his income, and allowable under the relevant legislation. I dont 
think that making contributions of that amount, and considering the likely investment 
returns, would mean that Mr W would have been at risk of breaching the LTA even 
after it was reduced further in 2016. I accept that Mr W would have still had some 
considerable time before he was required to take his pension benefits at age 75. But 
that wouldnt have prevented him from crystalising his remaining pension savings 
earlier than that and so creating a new benefit crystallisation event, and further 
recalculation of his OPS benefits.
 
So I do think it is likely that Mr W has lost out as a result of the incorrect information 
he was given by LCL in 2014. But for that incorrect information I think he would have 
continued to make pension contributions amounting to £125,000 and benefitted from 
the relevant tax relief on those contributions. I think a sum equivalent to that tax relief 
should be paid to Mr W as compensation.
In saying that, I am mindful that Mr W did gain some benefit from the advice he was 
given by LCL in 2014. I understand that he still retains his FP2014 LTA of £1.5M. So 
at the point he decides to crystalise his remaining benefits he might avoid a taxation 
charge that would otherwise have been due. But Im satisfied that Mr W would have 
taken appropriate action, if required, to mitigate that taxation charge had he not had 
the benefit of the increased LTA. So I dont intend to make any allowance for that 
benefit in the redress I direct below.
I turn now to whether Mr W was treated unfairly by LCL by it continuing to advise him 
when it knew that he spent part of the year outside the UK. But Im sorry to tell Mr W 
that I dont think this part of the complaint should be upheld.
Until 2020 it seems to me that Mr W considered himself to be resident in the UK, both 
in general terms and for taxation. Whilst it is clear that he visited his second home 
regularly I dont think that reasonably meant LCL was unable to service him as a 
client. It was only in 2020 when circumstances led to a more permanent change in 
Mr Ws living arrangements that its clause relating to overseas clients became 
applicable. I dont know whether that clause applied in the past  but I dont think 
Mr W has lost out if it did. His dealings with the firm before 2020 had been from the 
UK. And so LCL was reasonably able to provide the advisory services to him.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr W and LCL have said that they accept my provisional findings. 
But they have both also provided some additional information in response to my decision.
Mr W has confirmed that he was an additional rate taxpayer during the period he would have 
made the additional pension contributions. And since then he has remained a higher rate taxpayer. He has confirmed that it would be reasonable for him to make pension 
contributions now utilising his last three years allowance. And he says that he has sufficient 
headroom against the LTA to do so, and so relinquish the protection he has through 
FP2014.
LCL has asked if Mr W would be able to provide detail of the investment performance of his 
pension savings to allow it to calculate the compensation he is due. Mr W has advised he 
doesnt hold that information. So both parties have agreed it would be reasonable to direct 
that the compensation be based on a benchmark calculation rather than the actual returns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to alter those 
conclusions. I think it is likely that Mr W has lost out as a result of the incorrect information 
he was given by LCL in 2014. But for that incorrect information I think he would have 
continued to make pension contributions amounting to £125,000 and benefitted from the 
relevant tax relief on those contributions. So LCL needs to put things right.
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think that LCLs error meant that Mr W was 
prevented from making additional pension contributions amounting to £125,000 over the 
period 2015 to 2018. Although it is true that Mr W will have still enjoyed the use of those 
funds, he will not have benefitted from the tax relief that he might have otherwise received. 
Mr W has provided us with extensive evidence to show that his earnings and expenditure 
were such that he could afford contributions of this amount. Rather than adding these 
amounts to his pension he has instead made other, less tax efficient, investments.
The evidence I have seen demonstrates that Mr W was an additional rate taxpayer (45%) 
during that period. Mr W has confirmed that this is a correct assessment.
LCL needs to pay compensation to Mr W equivalent to the tax relief he would have received. 
For simplicity I have assumed that Mr W would have made each contribution towards the 
end of each tax year when his earnings and tax affairs could be best assessed  so I have 
assumed here that contributions of £31,250 would have been made on 31 March between 
2015 and 2018 inclusive. For ease I will assume that the tax relief would be received around 
two months later. So LCL should use dates of 31 May each year to calculate the investment 
returns and interest I detail below.
I intend to direct LCL to pay Mr W a total of £56,250 to reflect the tax relief he has lost. That 
comprises a total of 45% tax relief on total contributions of £125,000
The basic rate portion of that tax relief (£25,000) would have been added to Mr Ws pension 
savings. So LCL should add compensatory investment returns to this amount, based on the 
benchmark that both parties have accepted, and calculated from the date each tax relief 
payment would have been claimed (as set out above) to the date of my final decision. The 
benchmark that should be used is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(or the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index prior to 1 March 2017).
But that part of the tax relief would have been added to Mr Ws pension. And that would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore this part of the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's expected marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. Mr W has confirmed he is likely to be a higher rate taxpayer so the reduction 
should equal the current higher rate of tax (40%). However, as Mr W would have been able 
to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of that part 
of the compensation resulting in a total overall reduction of 30%.
Should that part of the compensation not be paid to Mr W within 28 days of his acceptance 
of my final decision, LCL should add further interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires LCL to take 
off tax from this interest (if it is required to be paid). LCL must give Mr W a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr W would have needed to reclaim the remaining £31,250 over the three years in question 
through self-assessment, and Ill assume that this would have been received at the same 
time as the tax relief would have been applied within the pension plan. Mr W would have 
received this in the form of a tax rebate, which he could have used as he saw fit. And so LCL 
should pay Mr W the tax rebates he would have received, with the addition of 8% simple 
interest from the date that they would have been received (as set out above) up to the date 
of settlement.
Although Mr W gave up paid employment in 2018, and has since not been in receipt of 
qualifying earnings, he would nevertheless have been able to contribute £2,880 annually and 
receive tax relief. So since Mr W has confirmed the Money Purchase Annual Allowance 
hasnt been triggered, and he has made no other pension contributions, he would also be 
entitled to use three past years of this allowance carried forward. And so these contributions 
could now be made in lieu of those which he would otherwise have made up to 2018. 
Since headroom still exists against the LTA, LCL may deduct from the total loss the amount 
which Mr W would now be able to receive as tax relief from such pension contributions. 
Those deductions should be based on an income tax rate of 40%.
LCL should provide Mr W with details of its calculations in a clear and understandable 
format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Lighthouse Advisory Services 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman