DRN-3957800
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a holiday product purchased 
in 2012.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Hs, because it relates to a credit card 
in his sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Hs name, Ill refer to Mr and 
Mrs H throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H purchased a points-based membership from a holiday club provider (the 
Supplier) in October 2012 (Time of Sale). Mr and Mrs H say they were approached by the 
Supplier in October 2012 and agreed to buy points costing £3,000. They paid for the points 
using Mr Hs NatWest credit card. The points would then be exchanged for holidays across 
the Suppliers portfolio.
Unhappy with what had happened at and after the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs H raised a 
claim against NatWest  using a professional representative (B) - in early April 2018. B 
raised the following complaint points:
Mr and Mrs H had made use of the product, but they were concerned that the 
supplier had been taken over by a third-party and that staff had been made 
redundant.
Mr and Mrs H had struggled to book holidays, repeatedly being told there was no 
availability. They were told to try to make a booking closer to the time of the holiday 
but when they did, they were still told there was no availability. Mr and Mrs H say that 
when they looked online for the resorts there was availability on the dates they 
wanted. They felt they had paid £3,000 for something that wasnt available to them 
but available to any internet user.
Mr and Mrs H requested a full refund.
NatWest said that B raised a complaint on behalf of Mr and Mrs H that the holiday product 
they acquired in 2012 was misrepresented and that NatWest hadnt responded to their 
letters. NatWest said it didnt believe there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link for 
a claim under Section 75 of the CCA. It noted there had been confusion in regard to the 
original contact, as it thought it hadnt received the information it had requested when this 
had been provided. It apologised for this and noted that its disputes nor complaints 
departments had reviewed the claim.
Unhappy with NatWests conclusion, Mr and Mrs H complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our adjudicator considered this complaint and thought that there was a valid DCS 
link and so Mr H had a valid claim under Section 75 of the CCA. She also considered the 
complaint under Section 140A of the CCA. However, she didnt think that NatWest was 
wrong not to uphold the claim as she didnt find that she could say the product had been 
misrepresented or that the actions of the supplier resulted in an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the key points from which are set out below: 
Was the right arrangement in place?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a 
claim under that provision. And given the facts of this complaint, thats also the case when 
claiming under Section 140A of the CCA.
As the purchase agreement indicates that payments under that agreement (except for those 
for finance) had to be made to a trustee rather than the Supplier directly, its now possible 
that there was no such agreement in place following a very recent High Court judgment in 
the case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC [2022].
However, as I understand it, the claimant has sought permission to appeal the decision. And, 
in any event, given the overall outcome Ive reached below, I dont think its necessary to 
make a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for the purpose of this 
decision because I dont think the complaint should succeed under Section 75 nor Section 
140A of the CCA.
Section 75: Misrepresentation and breach of contract
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75 of the CCA, there needs to have been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. Mr and Mrs H raised concerns about the acquisition of the 
Supplier. While I understand this may have caused uncertainty and I note the comments 
made about how staff were treated, this would only constitute a breach of contract if the 
goods and services Mr and Mrs H had acquired were no longer available to them following 
the acquisition. In this case I have nothing to show this was the situation.
Mr and Mrs H say that they were unable to book holidays due to a lack of availability. For me 
to conclude there was a misrepresentation in regard to the availability of holidays, I would 
need to be satisfied, based on the available evidence, that the Supplier made a false 
statement of fact when selling Mr and Mrs H the holiday products in October 2012. In other 
words, that they told Mr and Mrs H something that wasnt true and that the misrepresentation 
was material in inducing Mr and Mrs H to enter the contract.
I have been provided very limited information in this case and I cant see anything to show 
that Mr and Mrs H were told that there would be unlimited availability or that they would 
always be able to book the holidays at a time they wished. Instead, the information seems to 
suggest members would have to book in advance and holidays would be subject to 
availability. Given this, and I note that Mr and Mrs H have said they have been able to make 
bookings at certain times, I do not find I can say that the product Mr and Mrs H acquired was 
misrepresented.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law, so I have taken it into consideration.
Our investigator addressed Section 140A in her view. But in this case, I do not find I need to 
consider this further. I say this because, as set out above, I do not find I have evidence that a misrepresentation occurred and based on the information received I dont have anything to 
show there were any other acts and/or omissions by NatWest and/or the Supplier that were 
unfair or misleading.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision and NatWest confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I set out in my provisional decision that while I think there may be an issue with the DCS 
relationship given the overall outcome Ive reached, I dont think its necessary to make a 
formal finding on the DCS arrangement for the purpose of this decision because I dont think 
the complaint should succeed under Section 75 nor Section 140A of the CCA.
I note the claims raised under Section 75 and 140A of the CCA but for the reasons I have 
previously set out I do not think there is enough evidence to say that the holiday product 
Mr and Mrs H acquired was misrepresented to them or there were any other acts and/or 
omissions by NatWest and/or the Supplier that were unfair or misleading. 
As Mr H accepted my provisional decision and no further information was provided, my 
conclusions havent changed from those set out in my provisional decision. And so, while I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs H may be unhappy with the product they purchased, I do 
not find that the evidence available supports their claim for a refund under the CCA. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman