DRN-2667552
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Premium Choice Ltd unfairly cancelled his motor policy,
Mr M is represented by his mother Mrs M. However, for ease of reference I shall just refer to 
Mr M throughout where possible.
What happened
Mr M first applied for a motor policy with Premium on 4 November 2018. This was 
unfortunately cancelled for undisclosed claims.
So, Mr M then arranged another policy on line starting 2 December 2018. Mrs M said she 
was careful to ensure that the question asking about cancelled previous policies was 
answered yes. The policy was offered by Premium and Mr M accepted the premium price 
quoted and Mr M paid his deposit of £184.99 and set up his direct debit for monthly 
payments of £113.40.
On 14 December 2018, Premium sent a letter to Mr M saying his policy had to be cancelled. 
When Mrs M phoned Premium it said it was because he hadnt disclosed a previous policy 
had been cancelled. Mrs M said the cancellation had been disclosed.  
Then Premium sent another letter dated 24 December confirming the policy would be 
cancelled within seven days. It also took the first direct debit payment of £113.40 on 2 
January 2019. Mr M then sent Premium information which showed he had disclosed the 
previous policy was cancelled. Premium wanted further confirmation from the aggregator 
web site Mr M had used. 
Premium wrote to Mr M on 20 March 2019 saying that he still owed £67. As Mr M heard 
nothing further from Premium after 9 April 2019, Mr M obtained another policy from a 
different insurer costing £2,637.48.
So, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator discovered that there has been a 
mapping issue between the aggregator website and Premium which omitted Mr Ms correct 
affirmative answer to the fact a previous policy had been cancelled. However nevertheless 
had the mapping issue not happened Premium still couldnt have offered a policy to Mr M 
due to the previous cancellation and previous claims. 
So consequently, as Premium had waived the cancellation charge and the commission 
charge which he thought was reasonable. He didnt think Premium had to do anything 
further.
Mr M didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
I do appreciate and understand why Mr M doesnt agree. The matter has been overly 
confused and complicated by the fact that some information on Mr M application for his 
second policy didnt transfer over to Premium which initially caused the cancellation. 
However once that was sorted out Premium couldnt place Mr Ms policy due to the previous 
cancellation, previous claims and the motoring conviction of one of his named drivers some 
which was also not disclosed. 
My duty is to assess whether Premium did anything wrong, given the underwriting rules of 
the insurer. Insurers are fully entitled to decide what issues or risks they want to accept and 
what they dont. And because of the insurance record of the applicant and the intended 
named drivers they are entitled to decide what premium to charge. Premium amounts 
increase for such things like previously cancelled policies, claims often regardless of whose 
fault the accident was and driving convictions or points too.
So, Ill now explain my decision. 
Its clear the first policy Mr M took out on 4 November 2018 was properly cancelled because 
some claims werent disclosed on the application form. When Mr M then reapplied, Mrs M 
made sure he correctly disclosed the previously cancelled policy. However, through no fault 
of Mr M or indeed Mrs M that information failed to go through from the price comparison 
website to Premium. That also wasnt Premiums fault either. A policy was then offered given 
it seemed there was no previous cancelled policy which Mr M accepted.
But when Premium discovered there was a previously cancelled policy it had to then cancel 
this one as the insurer doesnt offer policies in situations where a previous one had been 
cancelled.  The insurer additionally unfortunately discovered that Mr M didnt disclose two 
claims on the application. Namely the 17 November 2018 and another one dated 5 March 
2018. Plus, Mr Ts father who was a named driver on the policy had a motoring conviction 
dated 18 September 2015 which also wasnt disclosed. Mr M did disclose the claim on 12 
July 2018 only.  The insurer said given this type of insurance record, Mr Ms application 
wasnt one they could accept under their underwriting rules.
There is a duty on the applicant to answer all the questions on the form. And although Mr M 
did answer the question about previous cancellations properly, the question about previous 
claims wasnt answered fully. Thats not Premiums fault so I cant hold it responsible for the 
second cancellation.
The fact that Mr M now has two cancellations on his record is the reason why his policy 
through another provider was so high.
Turning now to the fact that even though the December policy had to be cancelled Mr Ms 
first direct debit went through which Mr M is concerned about. Mrs M asked that the direct 
debit wasnt taken, so Mr M has complained that it was. But in the call recording with Mrs M 
on 31 December (as the investigator detailed) Premiums adviser did explain that 
unfortunately the direct debit couldnt be stopped at that time as it had already gone through 
the payment cycle with company through which Mr M was paying his monthly instalments. 
But Premium did say whatever was taken would be reflected into the final balance. Thats 
reasonable and its not Premiums fault it cant stop a payment once its entered the payment 
cycle.
Premium then worked out the time on risk which Mr M would have to pay for on both 
policies. On the first policy starting in November 2018 the balance owing was £107.17. On 
the second policy starting in December 2018 the balance owing ended up being £44.13. 
Premium didnt charge Mr M this amount as a gesture of goodwill given all the confusion initiated by the comparison website. They also waived the cancellation charge and the 
retained commission ensuring Mr M didnt have to pay anything. I consider this was very fair 
and reasonable.
So, whilst it has been very confusing given the issues with the comparison website, it 
remained that Mr M has two correctly cancelled policies because on both applications, some 
previous claims and his fathers motoring conviction were not disclosed. Therefore, I dont 
consider Premium has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman