DRN-2778809
The complaint
Mr and Miss D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly processed a direct debit 
indemnity claim on their account. 
Mr and Miss D are represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by them directly.
 
What happened
 Mr and Miss D hold a bank account with Barclays. In May 2020 they contacted Barclays to 
place some of their direct debits on hold. But shortly after, they realised Barclays had 
processed a direct debit indemnity claim, reversing the last monthly payment they made to a 
leasing company  who Ill call company A. Shortly after, company A began legal action 
against them. 
Barclays accepted they made an error and should not have processed the indemnity claim, 
and offered Mr and Miss D £200 in compensation. But said they shouldnt be held 
responsible for the action company A took following their mistake. 
Mr and Miss D said that the cost of dealing with the legal action alone was in the region of 
£1,400, and that they suffered a great deal of distress, worrying about the impact this could 
have on their business. They said they also incurred further costs in taking out a loan to 
clear the debt. So they refused Barclays offer, and brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint, and accepted Barclays had made an error. But 
she said she didnt think the direct debit indemnity reclaim was the sole reason for company 
A taking the action it did. So, she didnt think Barclays should be held wholly responsible for 
the actions of Company A. And she felt the £200 Barclays had offered in compensation, was 
sufficient in the circumstances. 
But Mr and Miss D remained unhappy, and said the direct debit indemnity reclaim was the 
sole reason for the legal action that followed. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As its clear the direct debit indemnity claim should not have been processed, and both 
parties agree on this, Ive not looked into this point in great detail. But for the avoidance of 
doubt, Im satisfied Barclays should not have processed the claim. So Ive gone on to look at 
what I think they should do to put things right. 
When considering the level of responsibility Barclays should take for the error, I need to think 
about what they shouldve known may be a likely consequence of their actions. As just 
because one party makes a mistake, it doesnt necessarily mean theyre responsible for 
everything that follows. 
The conduct of Mr and Miss Ds credit agreement with company A is not something Barclays 
would be aware of. So, theyre unlikely to have known whether Mr and Miss Ds payments 
towards this agreement had been maintained on time up until this point. But from what Mr 
and Miss D have told us, it would seem that they had made their payments towards 
company A on time, and that it was following the April payment being recalled, that their 
account fell into arrears.
 
While the direct debit reclaim issue occurred in May 2020, the legal claim form raised by 
company A was not raised until September 2020. And while it referred to an indemnity, it 
also talks about the termination of the agreement in August 2020. By which time, not only 
had the April payment been recalled, but the subsequent payments in May, June and July, 
had also been returned unpaid.
So, given Mr and Miss D failed to make other payments, I think its fair to conclude  as the 
investigator has  that while the direct debit indemnity reclaim may have been the start of the 
problems, it wasnt conclusively the sole cause of the actions that followed by company A. 
I can see that Mr and Miss D have highlighted a document provided by company A that 
states that it was because there was an indemnity raised, that company A took a hard 
stance. But the same paragraph also goes on to talk about the fact that they received no 
payment from Mr and Miss D for a number of months, and that no payments were being 
made by the guarantor. So it would appear that, while a contributing factor, it may have been 
more than just the indemnity reclaim that led to company A taking the actions that it did. 
But when looking at what Barclays should do to rectify its mistake, I need to consider what it 
would reasonably have known may be a consequence of its actions. From what Ive seen 
above, I dont think Barclays could be expected to know in full, how Mr and Miss Ds 
agreement with company had been run up until this point. And even if they were to have 
been aware that Mr and Miss D had maintained their payments towards this agreement on 
time, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that Barclays wouldve been able to reasonably 
foresee that legal action would be the likely result of just one payment being recalled. 
So, while I accept that Barclays made a mistake initially. I dont think its fair to hold them 
wholly responsible for the stress Mr and Miss D experienced as a result of their mistake. 
Especially when I can see that the payments towards the account continued to fail in the 
months that followed. So I think the £200 Barclays offered, is sufficient compensation for the 
impact their mistake has had on them.
I appreciate this has been a very distressing time for Mr and Miss D, and the way in which 
theyve been pursued for this debt by company A following Barclays error, has caused them 
a great deal of worry. If Mr and Mrs D remain unhappy with how they were treated by 
company A following Barclays error, then they should raise these concerns with company A. 
But for the reasons set out above, I dont think Barclays is wholly responsible for the events 
that followed after their initial error. So Im not asking them to do anything more. 
 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr and Miss D £200 in 
compensation to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr 
and Miss D £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman