DRN-3682020
The complaint
Mr S complained that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd , his insurance broker, unfairly 
cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Right Choice cancelled his motor insurance policy on 7 December 2021 because they said 
he wasnt up to date with his premium instalment payments. Mr S said he didnt know about 
this and only found out on 13 December when the police stopped him for driving without 
insurance and confiscated his car. He thought that he had made the payments and Right 
Choice had made a mistake in cancelling his policy. He wanted them to accept 
responsibility.
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld and made recommendations 
for redress. Right Choice didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Right Choice said they cancelled his policy because he was in arrears with payment of his 
premiums. 
When Mr S took out his policy he also took out an agreement with a finance company to 
enable him to pay the annual policy premium monthly. He did this by paying the finance 
company by monthly direct debits. 
Right Choice phoned Mr S on 10 November about arrears on his policy. Ive listened to the 
recording of that call. Right Choices adviser explained that Mr S owed one months premium 
plus charges on it. Mr S told the adviser that he was confused about owing Right Choice 
anything, and he asked the adviser to give him a breakdown of what Right Choice said he 
owed. The adviser agreed that Mr S could pay the arrears direct to the finance company 
rather than to Right Choice. This was to avoid an extra charge that Right Choice would 
impose. Mr S did then pay those arrears to the finance company. However Right Choices 
adviser in the 10 November call had made a mistake about what Mr S owed and didnt tell 
him the correct amount. 
Right Choice later decided that Mr S had also missed two previous payments, and so later 
said that Mr S owed that direct to Right Choice because Right Choice had paid the finance 
company for those. The finance company hadnt told Mr S about this either. Ill call this the 
other amount. 
 
Right Choice admitted that the adviser didnt tell Mr S the correct amount on 10 November 
because they were not aware of the other amount then, as this only came to light later. Due 
to this Right Choice apologised to Mr S and waived the policy cancellation charges and 
offered a slight reduction to his outstanding balance.
Mr S couldnt understand that he had arrears, or why Right Choice had cancelled his policy. 
He provided bank account evidence of the direct debits to the finance company. Right 
Choice disputed that the finance company was in fact able to collect the direct debits, but 
they havent been able to show us confirmation of that from the finance company. So its still 
not clear whether Mr S did in fact owe the other amount. But even if he did, Right Choice still 
had to treat him fairly.
Right Choice accepted that in their 10 November call they could have been clearer about 
how much they said Mr S owed. They also acknowledged that if Right Choice had given him 
the correct information and contacted him the cancellation of the policy may not have 
happened. But Right Choice still felt  justified in cancelling as he might not have paid the full 
arrears even if they had told him about it. 
I dont agree with that approach, and I dont think that Right Choice were at all clear with Mr 
S. In the November call Right Choice misinformed Mr S about what he owed. He paid that 
amount but after that Right Choice didnt contact him again until their emailed letter of 30 
November which told him about the other amount and warned him that they would cancel 
the policy if he didnt pay it in seven days. Right Choice followed this with an emailed letter 
on 7 December and a text too, both of which confirmed that Right Choice had cancelled his 
policy. 
Mr S said he didnt receive these as he was having problems accessing his email. While I 
have no reason to disbelieve that, Right Choice said that they emailed them and, if so, it 
would not be their fault if they were not received. Right Choice said they cancelled fairly 
because they followed their policy and regulatory requirements, However, I also have to look 
at whether it was fair of Right Choice to cancel and whether they gave Mr S enough notice. 
I dont think they did in these circumstances. Right Choices letter of 30 November didnt 
explain how the other amount allegedly owed was calculated and didnt refer to the 
conversation on 10 November. Nor did it refer to the arrears that Mr S had paid and how that 
related, if at all, to the other amount. So even if Mr S did in fact owe Right Choice that other 
amount,  I dont think that Right Choice explained it well enough or gave him enough chance 
to deal with it, even though hed already told them he was confused about how much he 
owed and why. I dont think that Right Choice had a good enough reason to cancel his policy 
as quickly as they did on only one warning letter. 
If Right Choice had explained it to him adequately, he may have been able to pay any 
outstanding balance. After all, he had paid the arrears after the 10 November call. I think that 
Right Choice should have done more to warn Mr S about the arrears before they cancelled 
his policy. As the consequences of driving without insurance are so severe, I dont think one 
warning letter was enough and Right Choice should have contacted him again before 
cancelling.
Mr S tells us that because Right Choice cancelled his policy he has been charged with 
driving without insurance and is to appear in court. This could have significant adverse 
repercussions for him and its understandable that he is worried about this. 
I can also see that it must have been embarrassing to have been stopped by the police and 
have his car impounded and dealing with that situation overall must have been stressful too. 
So I think that Right Choice should pay him £300 compensation to acknowledge that and 
reflect the stress their actions would have caused him.
They should also refund him any impound charge he had to pay to get his car back after it 
was impounded, plus interest on that.I think Right Choice should make sure any record of his cancelled policy is removed from 
any internal or external database, to prevent an adverse impact on his future premiums. 
Right Choice should also provide Mr S with a letter of indemnity explaining that Right Choice 
cancelled the policy due to their error, so he can speak to an new insurer about them 
rerating his premiums, and so he can provide this to the police or any other interested 
parties if necessary..
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd to do as follows:
Remove any record of Mr Ss policy cancellation from any internal or external 
database. 
Refund to Mr S any car impound fee that he may have had to pay after he was 
stopped by the police. 
Pay him 8% simple interest from the date he paid this, to the date Right Choice settle 
it. 
Provide Mr S with a letter of indemnity to explain it wasnt his fault his insurance was 
cancelled. 
Only charge Mr S for his time on cover and waive any charges caused by the 
cancellation.  
Pay Mr S £300 compensation. 
Right Choice must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr S accepts my final decision. If they do so later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Right Choice consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr 
S a tax deduction certificate if Mr S asks for one, so Mr S can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
