DRN-3031485
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Ms R says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because Capital 
One told us that the commission for Ms Rs PPI was more than 50% of what she paid, 
Capital One needed to pay back some of the commission she paid for the PPI. Capital One 
says it has already done that by adding the amount to an outstanding credit balance and so 
has nothing more to do. 
Ms Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event Capital One has paid back some of 
the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Capital One made it clear that Ms R didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because to get the cover Ms R had to tick a box for it 
on the application form for her credit. The box is so ticked on the copy of the form 
Capital One has provided from the sale. And Ms R signed that form which suggests 
her agreement to its contents.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms R - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms R enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms R  for 
example she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  
in particular Ms R was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. The 
cover would have paid out in addition to Ms Rs sick pay and for longer than her 
employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay. And Ms R also told us she had 
no other means to rely on in the event that long term illness stopped her from 
working, or if she lost her job. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably 
thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also looks like it was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms R would have declined the cover had Capital 
One done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back or mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One did need to disclose the commission it received  
but in any event Capital One has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Ms Rs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And Capital One (Europe) plc has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R. 
So, Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman