DRN-3316327
The complaint
Mr I complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in April 
2009 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I says he was pressurised into taking out the URCA to obtain the benefits without fully 
understanding what it was, and he wasnt offered any alternatives.
Halifax says it provided Mr I with full information about the cost and benefits of the URCA 
and he chose to take it out.
This sale took place through a conversation between Mr I and Halifax and I wasnt there so I 
cant know what was said. I can only look at the evidence available today to make my 
decision.
Both parties agree that Mr I had previously held a fee free bank account. And fee free 
accounts were widely available and advertised from other banks and financial institutions at 
the time of sale. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr I knew he had a choice whether 
to take out the URCA or not and he chose to do so based on the information Halifax gave 
him.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of Mr Is circumstances that I would 
expect to see if Halifax had recommended the URCA to Mr I or advised him to take it out. 
This service is also aware that Halifaxs sales at the time were generally non-advised. So, I 
think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale and the only requirement on 
Halifax was to provide Mr I with enough information to make an informed decision.
And I think its more likely than not that Halifax did.
I say this because there was clearly a substantial discussion during the sale where Halifax 
was trying to sell the benefits of the URCA to Mr I. Halifax has provided evidence that it 
subsequently sent Mr I a welcome pack with detailed information about it. And Mr I went on 
to enquire about and use several of the benefits. 
As this was a non-advised sale it was for Mr I to decide which benefits he wanted to use and 
to cancel any alternative cover if he wished to do so. And he could have cancelled the URCA 
at any time but didnt for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Halifax didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the 
URCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman