DRN-3228421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the service plan fee (the fee) imposed by Interactive Investor 
Services Limited (referred to as the business or IISL) in 2019. 
They say they werent told that the fee would increase and didnt consent to it.  
What happened
In August 2011, Mr and Mrs H held an investment account with a predecessor business. In 
December 2017, the investment account was migrated across to IISL. They were charged a 
quarterly fee of £22.50 for the use of the IISL platform. 
In June 2019, IISL changed its pricing structure. It charged customers £9.99 a month for its 
basic investor service plan, it says to give customers flexibility. 
IISL says that on 19 April 2019, it sent Mr and Mrs H a secure message to their online 
account notifying them of the new fee structure that was due to start from June 2019. IISL 
says that Mr and Mrs H wouldve also received an email prompt, telling them to login to their 
online account to view their messages. 
Mr and Mrs H maintain that they didnt receive any correspondence about changes to the fee 
structure, so werent aware of what was happening. They also say that they didnt have 
access to their account. 
Mr and Mrs H said that they only make £25 a month from the investment, so a charge of 
£9.99 would leave them with only £15.01 a month from the investment. They want a refund 
of the fees charged totalling £209.79. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr and Mrs H were content with paying £22.50 a quarter, before the fee structure 
was changed. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to ask IISL to refund the fees 
for a service that it provided. 
Just because Mr and Mrs H were paying £2.49 a month (more) under the new 
structure, doesnt mean theyre entitled to a refund of the fees.  
IISL provided evidence that shows notifications were sent to Mr and Mrs H  via 
secure message on the platform  but they didnt open them. IISL also sent Mrs H 
more than one email, at least, notifying her of the changes. 
The notifications explained that the fee structure was changing and that Mr and Mrs 
H had other options, if the basic investor service plan wasnt suitable for them. The 
notification also made clear that if they had any questions, they could contact IISL to 
discuss. 
In the circumstance, IISL took reasonable steps to notify Mr and Mrs H of the 
changes, even though they maintain that they didnt receive any secure message or 
email, so havent read the notification. 
Mr and Mrs H had a responsibility to read the messages sent. If there was a problem 
with their email service, the business cant be held responsible for this. 
In the circumstances, IISL hasnt done anything wrong by not writing to Mr and Mrs 
H about these changes or phoning them. As an execution only platform, its down to 
the customers to manage their own portfolio. Mr and Mrs H shouldve been aware of 
this, as theyve been using the service since 2017. 
If Mr and Mrs H no longer wish to pay a fee, IISL has confirmed that they can move 
to another provider without a penalty. 
IISL has made a commercial decision to change its fee structure, its not something 
that our service would get involved in. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, they said:
The investigators view is based on the evidence provided by IISL, but the 
communication was never received by them. 
On 13 October 2019, they wrote to IISL asking it to terminate the account but didnt 
receive a response. 
On 20 October 2020, they received a message but couldnt open it. IISL later 
explained that the message was in response to it stopping the £25 fees.   
Despite writing a letter to IISL, they were told that the business wasnt geared 
towards dealing with written requests. Theyve had another obstacle placed in the 
way of this account termination. 
IISL is treating them (and other elderly customers) with high handed contempt. 
The investigators view has failed to grasp the nettle.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
IISL confirmed that it met regulatory requirements to notify customers of its price 
change. 
Because its an online platform, the majority of IISLs communication is done 
electronically. 
Paper communications can be requested, but that wasnt done by Mr and Mrs H. 
In terms of the account closure request, IISL said it does accept closure requests via 
letter, but the account needs to have no shareholdings and less than or equal to 
£100 in cash. Because this wasnt the case, it couldnt accept Mr and Mrs Hs 
instructions.
IISL explained that it couldnt accept instructions because the market could change at 
any time, and shares could be traded at a price changed since the letter was 
received.    
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs H say, Im satisfied 
that they were sent proper notice about the changes to the fee structure. Therefore, Im 
unable to safely say that theyre entitled to a refund of the fees following the restructure.  Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope that they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by them, and IISL, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I 
must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its for me to 
decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.
A financial business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, to set its own fees. So, I cant say that IISL has done anything wrong by 
changing its fee structure as long as it has informed its customers of the change, which Im 
satisfied it has. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs.
Im mindful that as an execution only online platform, most of its communication is done 
electronically. IISL wasnt obliged to treat Mr and Mrs H differently to other customers simply 
by virtue of their age and I dont think it has done anything wrong by not doing so. I 
understand that if Mr and Mrs H wanted paper communication, they couldve requested the 
business to do so, but they didnt. So, in the circumstances, I cant blame IISL for 
communicating with them electronically rather than in writing. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were sent 
notification of the upcoming changes via secure message on 19 April 2019, and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that these messages werent received. I note the business says that the 
messages werent opened, despite being notified that they had a secure message from the 
business. If Mr and Mrs H didnt read their messages, its not something I can blame the 
business for.  
Im satisfied that the messages made clear, in good time, the changes that were about to be 
implemented. I note that Mr and Mrs H also had some choice about whether (or not) they 
wished to proceed under the new fee structure. Just because the fees increased  and it 
wasnt what Mr and Mrs H would ve wanted  doesnt mean that theyre entitled to a refund, 
or that IISL has behaved unreasonably.  
I note Mr and Mrs H say that they couldnt access their account, and/or their secure 
messages. But if that was the case, there was nothing stopping them from getting in touch 
with the business to find out why that was or to ask about the messages they received. 
In the circumstances the evidence is inconclusive as to whether the cause of the problem 
was at IISLs end or Mr and Mrs Hs. Although the fact there is no record that any other client 
had a problem, and Ive seen nothing to suggest there was an issue internally, perhaps 
indicates the problem was more likely (than not) to be at Mr and Mrs Hs end. Even if I did 
make a finding that the problem was at IISLs end  which I dont  theres no evidence that 
this was because of something IISL did wrong. 
The above, notwithstanding I note that Mrs H was also emailed on 20 April 2019 about the 
changes to the fee structure. I note IISL says:
In cases where there was no valid email address, or the email returned as undeliverable, a 
paper copy was instead sent. I have checked with our Communications Team who have 
confirmed that an email was sent to Mrs H (name anonymised), and that this does not show as undelivered. Therefore, I believe it is reasonable to state that the customer did receive the 
notification email but may have accidentally deleted or disregarded it.
So, in light of what IISL says, I think its likely that the email to Mrs H was sent and received. 
Furthermore, and on balance, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have received a 
single message notifying them of the upcoming changes.    
Despite what Mr and Mrs H say, I cant safely say that IISL did anything wrong by not calling 
them or writing to them in addition to sending the secure messages and emails. As I 
mentioned above, this was an execution only platform and it was up to the customers to 
manage their own accounts. Besides, IISL was at no point asked to communicate with Mr 
and Mrs H in writing. If it had been asked to do so, I think its more likely than not IISL 
wouldve written to them. 
I understand that if Mr and Mrs H remain unhappy about the new fees, IISL said they can 
transfer their investment out to a new platform, without a penalty. I understand that this is 
what they wish to do. As its an execution only platform its a matter for Mr and Mrs H what 
they do going forward. 
I note IISL said that in order to close the account, it needs to have no shareholdings and less 
than or equal to £100 in cash. This is something that Mr and Mrs H may wish to bear in mind 
if the account hasnt already been closed. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator, and I havent given them what they want. Whilst I appreciate their 
frustration, Im afraid Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman