DRN-4131579
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his static caravan insurer Chaucer Insurance Company 
Designated Activity Company regarding a claim he made when his caravan was damaged 
by a storm.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr Ls caravan was damaged during a storm  part of the roof was torn off. 
Mr L called Chaucer and it asked him to get a quote. Mr L understood Chaucer would use 
the quote to settle his claim. But when Chaucer saw the quote it decided to appoint a loss 
adjuster. The adjuster visited the caravan site on 19 March 2022. Following receipt of the 
adjusters report Chaucer declined the claim. It said corroded staples had caused the roof to 
be affected by the storm. Noting that damage caused by corrosion is excluded, it declined 
the claim. Mr L was unhappy about the appointment of the loss adjuster and the decline. So 
he complained.
Our Investigator, having considered the expert opinion available, felt Chaucer had reached a 
fair and reasonable decision that the storm had not been the main cause of the damage. 
Rather it likely had only highlighted the corroded staples. 
Mr L wasnt happy. He said it seemed illogical that part of the roof was still intact if staples 
used to fix it had corroded and been the cause for part of the roof to be lifted/torn away. 
Following some further correspondence, his complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
I wasnt minded to conclude that Chaucers claim decision was unfair or unreasonable. 
However, I did think it had misled Mr L in respect of the loss adjusters appointment  and 
I felt that this caused him frustration and upset when his claim was declined. As such 
I thought Chaucer should pay Mr L £200 compensation. So I issued a provisional decision to 
explain my views to both parties. My provisional findings were:
I know that Mr L thinks that if Chaucer can fairly and reasonably decline this claim, then his 
policy is not fit for purpose. I can assure Mr L that is not the case. The policy offered full 
cover for the caravan and on a new for old basis. But, like most policies the cover is limited 
to damage caused by certain instances or events, and there are exclusions to cover. In the 
circumstances here Chaucer declined the claim as it didnt feel that the storm had caused 
the damage  that corroded staples had been the dominant factor, where damage caused by 
corrosion is specifically excluded. But that doesnt mean that, in other circumstances, a claim 
for storm would always have been declined, purely based on the caravans age. 
I appreciate that Mr L believes that the dominant cause of the damage to his caravan was 
the storm. However, Chaucer has a different view and that has been formed following receipt 
of the expert consideration of its loss adjuster. Chaucer is entitled to rely on that expert 
opinion. The loss adjusters view carries more weight than Mr Ls  but Ive still considered 
whether or not the adjusters findings are compelling. I think they are.
The loss adjuster saw the caravan not that long after it was damaged. The adjuster took 
photos and considered things like how exposed the caravan was, whether other caravans on 
the site were damaged. The adjuster has explained how the photos taken show staples 
broken off, with parts remaining in the wood, surrounded by staining indicative of corrosion. 
The photos also show some staples had not corroded, at least not to the extent they had 
broken. The adjuster concluded that the wind had not been the dominant cause of the roof 
being torn off  rather it was the corroded staples that had meant the storm was able to 
cause the damage Mr L found.
I understand that Mr L thinks that if corrosion had been the cause, the rest of the roof panels 
would have been torn off too. But I think that argument can just as equally be turned around 
to say that if the storm was the cause, regardless of the condition of any securing staples, all 
of the panels would have been affected. However, neither of those arguments takes into 
account that it is possible for different parts of the roof to have been affected in different 
ways. Not least regarding Mr Ls view, not given that I noted above that not all of the staples 
exposed following the storm had broken  some remained intact and the sheeting they had 
been securing had torn through them. So its possible that in the unaffected areas of the 
roof, more staples like that were in place than the ones which were severely affected by 
corrosion, thereby stopping those parts of the roof being torn away. I appreciate that Mr L 
will likely view my comment as no more than conjecture. But I offer it here to show that its by 
no means clear that just because some of the roof remained intact, the part which was torn 
off must have suffered that damage only because of the storm. 
I also understand that Mr L thinks that any sign the loss adjuster saw of corrosion only 
occurred because of the delay between the loss occurring and the visit. But the delay didnt 
change the fact that some staples were broken whilst others werent. And corrosion isnt 
something which occurs in a matter of weeks, it is a long-term process. 
So, as I said, I do find the loss adjusters expert opinion is compelling. As such I think 
Chaucers decline was not unfair or unreasonable. 
However, I also said above that I feel Chaucer misled Mr L about the adjusters involvement 
which I accept caused him upset. I know Mr L was upset that after asking him to get a quote, 
Chaucer then decided to appoint an adjuster. That in itself was not unfair of Chaucer. It is 
sometimes the case that either due to workloads, or maybe even in an attempt to limit their 
outlay, an insurer will, as a starting point ask for a quote for repair/replacement. However, it 
is also sometimes the case, as it was here, that upon consideration of a quote, the damage 
is shown to be more extensive than expected and an insurer will want to obtain further 
validation and verification of the loss before looking to settle the claim. That, in general 
terms, is not an unreasonable thing for an insurer to do.  
Here though Mr L told Chaucer he was unhappy about an adjuster being appointed and 
asked why that was felt to be necessary. Mr L was told two things:
That the assessors would confirm if the caravan was so damaged it needed to be 
replaced.
The purpose of [the appointment] is to assist you with the disposal of the caravan and 
also aid the search for a replacement and re-siting. They will also consider the contents 
claim presented.
So I think Mr L was led to believe by Chaucer that his claim was all but accepted, that the 
adjusters involvement was purely to do with settlement. But I dont think this caused Mr L 
any loss beyond the upset and frustration he felt when he was told, a couple of weeks after 
the visit, that Chaucer was considering declining the claim. For that upset and frustration, Im 
satisfied that £200 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. Im aware that Mr L claimed for some damaged contents items too. Im not sure what 
happened in respect of that claim. Chaucers final response letter is not clear in this respect, 
only referring to the claim and damage to the caravan roof. But it seems the storm damaged 
contents items, and the policy offer cover for contents items damaged by storm as well as 
those suffering accidental damage. So, I trust it has handled and settled the contents claim. 
But if it hasnt, Ill likely require it to consider it.
Following my provisional decision being issued, Chaucer did not reply further to us. But Mr L 
told us it had contacted him to arrange payment of my suggested compensation award. 
Mr L, in providing his own response to my findings, said he was disappointed as he feels 
some of Chaucers policy clauses could always excuse it from paying a claim. He explained 
that when the loss adjuster visited his only focus was on the staples  he paid no heed to the 
damaged contents items at all. Mr L said there were claims for accommodation and ground 
rent to be considered too. Hes worried Chaucer will just decline the contents claim stating 
the corroded staples caused the damage. He said the compensation for being misled was 
welcome  but was a drop in the ocean for what he had lost replacing the caravan which he 
had reasonably thought he was covered for. 
Whilst reviewing Mr Ls response, I noted his concerns about his claims for ground rent and 
alternative accommodation. I asked our Investigator, given that my provisional decision was 
that Chaucers decline of the claim for damage to the caravan itself was fair and reasonable, 
to provide some clarification to Mr L. Our Investigator explained to Mr L that Chaucer cant 
fairly and reasonably be required to consider his losses for rent and accommodation 
because the policy makes cover for these dependant upon there being a valid claim for 
damage to the caravan. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L has some wider concerns about the policy he had with Chaucer. But 
my focus is on whether, in relation to the circumstances claimed for, Chaucer applied the 
relevant policy terms in a reasonable manner such that its decision on the claim for damage 
to the caravan was fairly made. For the reasons explained provisionally, Im satisfied it did 
do that.
I know Mr L had also asked Chaucer to cover his losses for ground rent and alternative 
accommodation. But, in the circumstances here, that isnt something I can fairly and 
reasonably require Chaucer to do. Thats because the policy offers cover for these only in 
connection with a valid claim for damage to the caravan itself. And Ive found that Chaucer 
fairly and reasonably declined Mr Ls claim for damage to his caravan. 
I also explained provisionally that I felt Chaucer had misled Mr L about the reason for the 
adjusters visit. Whilst Mr L was given to think the adjuster was there, in part, to assess the 
contents claim, Chaucer intended the adjuster to validate the claim. Which is why the 
adjuster focused on the staples. 
I know Chaucer has contacted Mr L already regarding my compensation award. I trust that 
following our Investigator advising it that Mr L has accepted my final decision, if he does, it 
will contact him again with a view to progressing the contents claim. Ive found it should be 
doing that because, from what Ive seen here, the main and direct cause of damage to the 
contents items was the storm. I appreciate that Mr L has had a significant loss in having to replace his caravan. That is 
unfortunate. However, my view on Mr Ls complaint about Chaucers actions has not 
changed from that stated and then clarified provisionally. My provisional findings, including 
the clarification by our Investigator (summarised above), along with my comments here, now 
form the findings of this my final decision. 
  
Putting things right
I require Chaucer to pay Mr L £200 compensation. And consider the contents claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
to provide the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman