DRN-1571065
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card in February 1994.
What happened
Mr M complained about the sale of a PPI policy sold to him in February 1994.
MBNA agreed the policy was mis-sold and offered compensation.
When calculating the compensation MBNA told Mr M it did not hold records of his credit card 
account from between February 1994 and June 1995. So MBNA estimated the amount of 
PPI premiums paid by Mr M during this period.
Mr M said MBNA had under-estimated the PPI premiums he paid during that period. As 
evidence he produced credit card statements showing he had paid more than MBNA 
estimated.
An adjudicator from this service agreed that MBNA had under-estimated the premiums paid 
by Mr M. The adjudicator sent MBNA the statements supplied by Mr M and asked MBNA to 
re-calculate its compensation offer taking into account the new information.
MBNA did not reply to the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect MBNA to refund the PPI 
premiums and any card interest or associated charges caused by the PPI. Wed also expect 
MBNA to compensate the consumer for any periods when theyd been out of pocket as a 
result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case MBNA does not hold any data for Mr Ms account for the period between 
February 1994 and June 1995. That isnt surprising as businesses are not required to hold 
information indefinitely. In cases like this I would normally expect MBNA to make reasonable 
assumptions to estimate the premiums paid by Mr M.
But in this case Mr M has been able to supply copies of his old statements dating back to the 
period when MBNA does not hold its own data. I can see from the statements given to us by 
Mr M that he did pay more in PPI premiums during the period from February 1994 to June 
1995 than MBNA has estimated.So Id expect MBNA to use these statements to produce a more accurate calculation of what 
it owes Mr M.
Our adjudicator sent MBNA the statements and asked it to provide a new calculation using 
the statements supplied by Mr M. Unfortunately MBNA has not responded. 
Putting things right
MBNA needs to carry out a new calculation this time using the statements supplied by Mr M 
for the period between February 1994 and June 1995. It can still use reasonable 
assumptions if any months are not covered by Mr Ms statements. But any assumptions 
should take account of the information provided on Mr Ms statements.
To be clear MBNA needs to:
MBNA should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. To 
do this it should use the data it holds on Mr Ms account from June 1995 onward together 
with the statements provided by Mr M. It should then:
MBNA should find out how much Mr M would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
 MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
If  when MBNA works out what Mr M would have owed each month without PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr M wouldve 
owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
I understand MBNA has already paid Mr M some compensation for the mis-sale of the 
policy. It can take this off the new total before making payment to Mr M.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct MBNA Limited to pay Mr M 
compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman