DRN-3782057
Background to the complaint
Mr B complains that Ulster Bank Ltd will not refund money he paid to an alleged investment 
scam. For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr B includes his representative. 
In summary, Mr B invested a total of £30,000 into an investment venture with a company Ill 
call F. He made three payments of £10,000 each in October 2017, with the hope of making 
a profit. From his deposits with F, Mr B was paid a series of dividends by the firm. 
When these dividends or interest payments ceased, Mr B began to think F was not a 
legitimate business. He later complained to Ulster Bank that he had been scammed. Mr B 
also raised concerns about another company that hed been investing with around the same 
time, the subject of which has been considered in a separate case with our service. 
One of our investigators thought there was insufficient evidence that F was operating a 
scam, meaning that Ulster Bank were not required to have taken steps to protect Mr Bs 
account. Overall, our investigator thought the bank should not be held liable for the £30,000 
paid to F. Because Mr B does not agree, the case has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, Ive considered Mr Bs submissions regarding the potential bearing his 
other case with our service has on this complaint. As Ive set out above, this separate 
complaint is not about any potential loss caused to Mr B by the investment with F, but 
instead concerns payments Mr B made to a different investment firm.
Initially, Mr B made a clear request that these matters be considered as two individual 
complaints. However, he has since proposed that both be reviewed together as one. I 
understand this is because Mr B believes that the findings on one case should materially 
impact the other, i.e. one being upheld would naturally lead to the other also being found in 
his favour. The point being, Mr B is concerned that my determination of this complaint may 
be detrimental to his overall position, as I am not making a finding on both sets of disputed 
transactions. If I were, Mr B thinks this would result in a more favourable outcome.  
Pursuant to the complaint handling procedures of our service, where two or more complaints 
from one complainant relate to connected circumstances, I may investigate them together.  
There is a link between the two alleged scams, in the sense that the payments were all 
remitted from Mr Bs same account with Ulster Bank within the same time period. 
Nonetheless, I do not deem it a strict requirement to determine both these series of 
transactions within the same complaint. I say so because, having reviewed the evidence on 
Mr Bs other complaint, Im satisfied it doesnt make a material difference to my decision 
here on this case. Although I make no finding on the other complaint, I can assure Mr B that 
the way in which the two cases are considered makes no difference to the outcome 
regarding these payments to F. For that reason, there is no detriment to him that this office 
has considered the two groups of contended payments as part of separate complaints. 
The relevant regulations and industry guidance make it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee (i.e. the entity 
receiving the funds) was a fraudster; meaning in this case that Ulster Bank could have 
delayed the payments while any concerns about F were discussed with Mr B.
To that end, I would need to be satisfied that F was a fraudulent outfit when these payments 
were made in October 2017, in order to expect Ulster Bank to have done anything further 
here. In other words, there needs to be compelling evidence that F was operating a scam, 
one that falsely represented an investment scheme when in truth it only intended to deceive 
consumers  with no investments made at all. 
When determining this, Ive borne in mind that some investment traders may use sales 
methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be unfair. Especially, when 
considering the financial losses incurred because of a disappointing return on an investment 
thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to us involving investment merchants are 
in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be viewed as 
unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to the high 
legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
Ive taken into consideration the concerns Mr B has raised about the techniques F employed. 
I also accept that F may not have been authorised by the UK regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Theres a lack of information available about F, given the time 
thats passed since Mr B made these payments. Moreover, the firm looks to have since 
dissolved. Still, we know that, in 2017, some investment schemes (such as the issuing of 
certain securities) were not regulated activities under UK financial services law. So, F not 
being authorised by the FCA does not necessarily mean it was acting fraudulently.  
Ive reviewed the available industry intelligence about F, as an investment company being 
identified as untoward by official powers and bodies can be strong evidence that it might be 
fraudulent. As far as I am reasonably aware, there are no such warnings about F. The 
relevant watchlists, along with other reputable sources, do not indicate that F was carrying 
out fraud. Overall, there is a lack of evidence that F was set up to falsely represent 
transactions to cause a loss to consumers by dishonest means. 
It also seems highly unlikely that a scam would return funds. Its evident Mr B was receiving 
a return on the deposits he made to F; for example, he received around £2,000 back in the 
months after October 2017. There was also a host of subsequent monthly dividend/interest 
payments that show Mr B was regularly receiving money back from the investment(s).
In conclusion, Im not persuaded F was fraudulent. Consequently, Ulster Banks duty to 
intervene wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Mr Bs investments returning a 
loss, based on market performance. But Ulster Bank isnt required to protect its consumers 
from the risk of financial loss due to investment choices, and it could not give unauthorised 
investment advice under these circumstances. Therefore, I dont consider Ulster Bank acted 
unfairly by not intervening with these payments. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman