DRN-4050271
The complaint
Mr M complains N26 Bank GmbH (N26) have not refunded the money which was transferred 
to one of its customers accounts as a result of a purchase scam.  
What happened
The detailed circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not 
repeat them all again here. But in summary, Mr M says he fell victim to a scam. He made a 
payment, by transferring a sum of £430 from his bank account with M to the sellers 
account, which was held with N26, for the purchase of an iPad. The seller told Mr M the iPad 
would be sent to him within 48 hours and that he should receive it within three to five days, 
but unfortunately nothing was received, and the seller stopped responding to Mr M. 
  
Mr M reported this to his own bank, who contacted N26, but no funds remained that could be 
returned. 
Mr M was unhappy with N26 as the recipient bank/payment service provider (PSP) and 
asked that it refund his loss.
N26 issued its final response after the complaint was brought to our service. It didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Mr M remained unhappy, so one of our Investigators looked into things. 
Initially in the absence of any information from N26, she upheld Mr Ms complaint and asked 
that it refund the disputed sum with interest. In response N26 provided information in support 
of its position. Our Investigator reconsidered the complaint (taking into account the 
information N26 had shared) and concluded that she couldnt ask N26 to do anything further 
to resolve the complaint. Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
When Mr Ms complaint was passed to me, I could see in response to our Investigators 
outcome hed expanded on his complaint. I could also see how strongly he felt, and how 
much trying to recover his loss meant to him. So, I spoke to Mr M to explain in greater detail 
why I couldnt uphold his complaint. I also explained that our service is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and our role is to look at N26s actions, not investigate the crime or bring 
the person(s) responsible for tricking him to justice  that would be a matter for the police 
and courts.  
Mr M asked for my written final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate the outcome will be 
disappointing for Mr M, and Im genuinely sorry to hear about his loss, but I cant fairly and 
reasonably ask N26 to refund this. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I note Mr M says the Investigators outcome favoured the scammer and system 
seems to be favouring fraudulent people. Id like to assure him that we are independent of 
both parties and were impartial. We look into complaints brought by consumers who think a 
financial business has done something wrong thats caused them to lose out. We consider 
all of the evidence both parties send us to decide if we think a business has treated 
someone fairly. And its the nature of looking at complaints that consequently one party will 
be unhappy with our findings. 
Also, we are not investigating the individual(s) that perpetrated the alleged scam as we cant 
consider complaints about the actions of criminal(s)/scammer(s). I appreciate Mr Ms 
concerns that the individual that tricked him is still operating and potentially defrauding 
innocent victims. But the actions of a scammer(s) are a criminal matter. I understand Mr M 
has reported this to Action Fraud, who he says have done nothing to help him. But I still 
consider the police and courts are better placed to resolve this part of his complaint than we 
are. I appreciate Mr Ms frustrations with the justice system, but I cant investigate the 
actions of the police or the courts. 
I can see Mr M feels strongly that N26 should refund his loss and feels its unfair that the 
bank/PSP is unwilling to do so. But I want to be clear that unwittingly falling victim to a scam 
doesnt entitle the victim to a refund from the bank/PSP that received their money. In these 
circumstances I could only direct N26 to reimburse Mr M for his loss if Im satisfied it did 
something wrong where it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to provide a refund. Im 
afraid I cant direct N26 to refund Mr Ms loss on the basis that he has suggested it ought to. 
That being that he acted in good faith when making the payment; and has been the victim of 
a scam. 
When considering complaints of this nature, I can understand why, with the benefit of 
hindsight, its sometimes easy to say the recipient bank/PSP ought to have identified the 
activity on the account as fraud and shouldve done more to prevent the loss, or it couldve 
done more to assist in the recovery of the funds upon receipt of notification of fraud. 
However, I must be clear, when deciding this complaint, I need to think about what N26 
knew at the time  not what is known today. And where it is supposed (as is the case here) 
that N26 didnt do enough. My role is to look into the individual circumstances of the case 
and decide (within my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), based on what I have seen, 
whether it should have fairly and reasonably done more.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied N26 carried out appropriate checks to verify the identity 
of the recipient accountholder (in line with its regulatory obligations) when opening the 
account. So, it follows that I dont think there is any reason, based on the opening of the 
account, to ask N26 to do more here.
  Ive reviewed the account statements since account opening and also considered whether 
there was anything prior to Mr Ms notification of fraud that ought to have alerted N26 to the 
possibility of fraud. Im satisfied none of the account activity ought to have stood out to N26 
as suspicious. So, I dont think there have been any failings by N26 regarding the monitoring 
of the recipient account, so I cant say it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Ms loss in this 
way either.
Im also satisfied that N26 responded appropriately when it received notification of fraud from 
M. Unfortunately, however, by the time N26 had been told that Mr Ms payment had been 
made as a result of a scam, Mr Ms funds had already left the recipient account (in fact these 
were spent on the day of receipt). So I dont think there were any failings that prevented 
Mr M recovering his money. 
Mr M has asked a number of questions about the recipient account. He wants to know what 
action, if any, has N26 taken in relation to the account which received his payment. He feels 
if the account is still operational, or it was for the time between his money being received 
and N26 being in receipt of notification of fraud from M, it should have removed and returned 
to him, any funds which were available. In response to our Investigators assessment Mr M 
has also expressed that he is unhappy N26 have not reported the recipient accountholder to 
the police. Im satisfied N26 have taken the steps Id expect a recipient bank/PSP to take 
upon receipt of notification of fraud, which is to carry out its own investigation into the 
allegation and make a decision about whether it allows the account to remain open, provides 
notice for closure or closes the account without notice. Im also satisfied that there were no 
other funds that it couldve returned as the account had a zero balance when notification of 
fraud was received. And it isnt N26s responsibility to report the matter to the police. N26 
themselves havent been a victim of crime, Mr M has  so it would be for Mr M, to report the 
matter to the police. Im confident N26 would co-operate with any police investigation  
including the sharing of any information if they were to request it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman