DRN-1633319
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr F. The van here 
was over four years old and had completed over 140,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear. 
Im not persuaded that this van was of unacceptable quality when supplied. Ive considered 
the vehicle health check that Mr F commissioned from the franchised dealership and Ive 
also considered the independent report provided. Im persuaded by the contents of the 
independent report because:
The engineer is an independent expert and has provided a statement explaining his 
obligations to the Court, whereas the same cant be said for the franchised 
dealership who were commissioned by Mr F.
The independent engineer has commented on all the issues raised by the franchised 
dealership in the health check they prepared. He has provided measurements of the 
oil, coolant, brake fluid and brake wear which demonstrate compliance. 
The independent engineer has also checked the wheels for binding and could not 
identify any binding on either the front or rear wheels.
There were no warning lights visible when the inspector provided his report and as 
this was after the franchised dealership provided their comments, I think, on balance, 
its most likely warning lights arent present.
The independent engineer didnt find issue with the functioning of the clutch. He did 
agree there was some clicking but thought that was only from the pedal. In a 
vehicle that had completed over 140,000 miles I think some wear and tear, such as 
this, can be expected. I dont think this suggests the van was of unacceptable quality.
The independent engineer did identify a potential leak on the gearbox and a twisted 
exhaust although he noted it wasnt blowing. He thought these were faults related to 
normal wear and tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage and, as hes an expert in 
these matters, I think thats likely.
I note Mr F was able to complete about 4,000 miles in the van in roughly three months 
before it was independently inspected. That seems a reasonable mileage and the fact Mr F 
has been able to cover a reasonable mileage in the van supports the independent engineers 
view, and mine, that the vehicle was of acceptable quality. I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence that this van was of unacceptable quality.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman