DRN-3581300
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have dealt with 
their mortgage. They said they agreed to transfer their mortgage to interest only however, 
Barclays transferred the mortgage back to capital repayment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took a mortgage with Barclays in November 2016. They took this mortgage 
out on a capital repayment basis over a term of 33 years. 
Due to the covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs O contacted Barclays as their income was 
negatively impacted, and they asked for support. It was agreed that Barclays would switch 
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage from repayment to interest only temporarily for a period of 12 
months  from May 2020. This arrangement is also known as a concession. 
As the 12 months came to an end, Barclays sent Mr and Mrs O a letter to explain what their 
new contractual monthly payments (CMP) would be once their mortgage reverted to 
repayment. During this concession period, Mr and Mrs O also applied to switch the interest 
rate on their mortgage. A mortgage offer was sent in November 2020, part way through the 
concession, which confirmed the new rate that Mr and Mrs O had chosen. As Mr and Mrs O 
were part way through the concession, the mortgage offer sent showed the mortgage and 
CMP as being on interest only. Mr and Mrs O said they paid a fee of £999 for the interest 
only mortgage. 
In April 2021, Mr and Mrs O were sent a letter by Barclays who informed them that from May 
2021, their CMP would be increasing to £1,427.13 as opposed to the £441.60 that was 
detailed on the mortgage offer they received in November 2020. 
Mr and Mrs O wanted to remain on interest only and said they were then considered for an 
interest only mortgage by going through a review of their finances with Barclays but were 
told they didnt meet their lending criteria. Mr and Mrs O believe that Barclays didnt take 
account of all their income during the review. 
Mr and Mrs O complained to Barclays who accepted they made an error in sending the 
mortgage offer in November 2020 on an interest only basis. They also acknowledged that 
the service they had provided to Mr and Mrs O should have been better and offered Mr and 
Mrs O £1,000 total compensation to reflect this. Barclays also agreed to waive any early 
repayment charges (ERCs) that Mr and Mrs O would be charged if they redeemed their 
mortgage early  during the fixed rate period. Barclays said this was to give Mr and Mrs O 
the option to seek an alternative provider who may be able to offer them an interest only 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs O werent happy with Barclays, so they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman where it was looked at by one of our investigators.
Our investigator thought that the level of compensation that Barclays offered was fair, but 
initially didnt think that Barclays had assessed the change to interest only using all the 
income provided by Mr and Mrs O. So she told Barclays to go back and assess this based 
on the information they had at the time in 2021. The income that Mr and Mrs O thought was 
missing was dividends paid to Mrs O. 
Barclays responded to the investigator providing further evidence which suggested that Mrs 
O didnt declare any dividends when going through the income and expenditure assessment. 
Barclays also provided a copy of the telephone call which confirmed this. 
Our investigator then agreed with Barclays that the dividend income had never been 
declared so didnt think it was fair to ask Barclays to go back and review the change to 
interest only based on the income from 2021. She did however say that Mr and Mrs O were 
free to go through a review with Barclays now, to see if they now met their lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs O disagreed. In summary, they made the following comments:
The main focus of their complaint is the amount of errors that Barclays made. 
Numerous errors were made by different staff members and its had a significant 
impact on their family
The initial errors took some six months to come to light which is significant as family 
plans were made. These errors have meant they had to pay an additional £1,000 per 
month with just two weeks notice
They believed the interest only had been approved so they made plans to reinvest 
money into home improvements. These errors have resulted in their finances being 
in a significantly different position than they believed was agreed and still hasnt been 
rectified
They had to take time out to try and put things right by attending a mortgage 
appointment. They were given incorrect information that the repayment method can 
be changed over the phone
The income taken has been misunderstood. They were told by Barclays that all their 
income could have been used. The second telephone call which confirms all the 
income was taken into consideration has not been provided by Barclays
Barclays are allowed to submit evidence when they choose and seems to be the 
reason they cannot use the previous income figures
They do not feel they have been put back in the financial position before the mistakes 
happened. 
Mr and Mrs O then went on to clarify two mistakes made by Barclays:
1st mistake  phone call conversation to convert repayment method (to interest only) 
approved as Mortgage offer confirms a 24-month fixed term rate on interest only 
2nd  mistake  Barclays havent used the correct income at the mortgage appointment 
so didnt proceed to full application in 2021. Further borrowing would have been 
likely, interest only would have been likely and a lower interest rate could have been 
secured
As Mr and Mrs O disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O have made very detailed submissions and provided a lot of information as to 
why they think their complaint should upheld  and why Barclays need to do more. I wont 
comment on every point that Mr and Mrs O have made, but I want to reassure them that I 
have considered everything they have told us when making my decision. I also think it may help at this point if I explain that the Financial Ombudsman doesnt 
supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role isnt to punish or 
penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to see if Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their dealings with Mr and Mrs O. 
Mr and Mrs O contacted Barclays during the pandemic to explain that their incomes had 
been impacted. At this point, Mr and Mrs O wanted to see if they could change their 
mortgage from capital repayment to interest only.
Ive listened to this telephone call and Mrs O calls Barclays to do this and the adviser 
explains that they need to carry out an income and expenditure. Mrs O confirmed she didnt 
want anything to impact their credit file. The adviser confirmed how a payment deferral 
would work and that it wouldnt have an impact on their credit file and the same applied if 
they moved their mortgage to interest only and he confirmed they could do that for 12 
months. 
During the telephone call, an income and expenditure was completed by the adviser and a 
12-month interest only concession was agreed with effect from May 2020. Mr and Mrs O 
have a main mortgage account and a sub account. Mrs O mentioned that their fixed rate was 
due to end and wanted to know if the concession would impact them applying for another 
rate. The adviser explained that she would need to speak to another mortgage adviser but 
explained it was unlikely to impact the change as the 12-month concession was something 
they were able to offer  so didnt think it would. 
Im satisfied that the adviser at Barclays made it very clear that this concession would be for 
12 months. It was also made clear that Mrs O should raise queries regarding the interest 
rate switch with another department and that the concession wouldnt have any impact on Mr 
and Mrs Os credit file  as long as they kept up to date with the payments agreed. The 
adviser confirms that a letter would be sent to Mr and Mrs O to confirm the agreement and 
he also said that Mr and Mrs O would receive a further letter towards the end of the 
agreement letting them know what they CMP would increase to, once the mortgage reverts 
to repayment following on from the 12 months. It was confirmed that the concession would 
start from May 2020 as Aprils CMP had already been taken.
Ive seen the letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs O dated 11 April 2020 which confirmed how 
much the new monthly payments were going to be from May 2020 on interest only. This 
letter doesnt make it clear that the agreement is for 12 months  however, having listened to 
the call, it was made clear that the concession would only be for that period of time  which 
Mrs O seemed to understand.
Ive also listened to the telephone call where Mrs O contacts Barclays to explain their 
interest rate is coming to an end. Mrs O explains they would like a new interest rate and tells 
the adviser that they are currently on interest only. Mrs O asked the adviser if changing 
interest rate would impact the mortgage type or just the rate. The adviser confirms that the 
repayment type would stay the same unless Mr and Mrs O were to go through a mortgage 
contract variation  which changes the mortgage type. The adviser explains that rates would 
be available online so Mrs O could see what they were and that the rate would be calculated 
on interest only. Mrs O confirmed with the adviser that nothing would change with regards to 
the repayment type, and the adviser said no. Im satisfied that Mrs O knew from the previous 
telephone call that the interest only concession was only for 12 months and after the 
discussion with the adviser about interest rates, that the repayment type wouldnt be 
affected. 
The issue that occurred is the mortgage offer that followed in November 2020, confirmed the 
new interest rate that Mr and Mrs O applied for, but the offer stated that both mortgages 
were on interest only and that the term remaining was 31 years and one month. The offer also confirms that a fee of £999 was added to the mortgage and its clear that this is a 
mortgage product fee. The new combined CMP was shown as £441.60.
In April 2021, Barclays sent a letter to Mr and Mrs O letting them know that their mortgage 
would be reverting to capital repayment and that the new CMP for both accounts would be 
£1,427.13. Mr and Mrs O have said this is different to what was shown on the mortgage 
offer. Following receipt of this letter, Mr and Mrs O contacted Barclays to explain their 
financial position and that they wanted to be considered for further interest only forbearance. 
The contact notes I have reviewed show that Barclays explained that any further support 
would impact Mr and Mrs Os credit files and they gave Mr and Mrs O another telephone 
number to call for support.
Ive listened to the telephone call from 12 April 2021 where Mrs O contacted Barclays to see 
what other mortgage support was available. Mrs O explained that they were on a 12-month 
interest only concession but Mr O was still on furlough so wanted to discuss if it was possible 
to extend the interest only arrangement or convert the mortgage to interest only 
permanently. Mrs O said she thought after they fixed the mortgage, that the mortgage had 
switched to interest only permanently but she had received a letter that day, which said that 
the mortgage was going to revert back to repayment  so she wanted to see what options 
were available. The adviser explained that if Mrs O wanted this switch to be a permanent 
one, she would need to speak to another department. 
I think having listened to this call, the service could have been better. I dont think the adviser 
really understood what Mrs O wanted to do and the advice could have been clearer and 
explained what the process would be. However, I do think its clear that Mrs O still knew the 
interest only concession was for 12 months  although I do note she commented to say she 
thought it had switched permanently when she got the offer in November 2020. 
Mr and Mrs O agreed a two-year fixed rate which expires on 31 January 2023. Barclays 
have agreed that an error was made when the mortgage offer was sent to Mr and Mrs O as 
it showed that the mortgage was on interest only  which in fairness, it was at the time. 
However, the mortgage was only ever going to be on interest only for 12 months  because 
this is what was agreed with Mrs O in April 2020. Having listened to all the telephone calls 
available, there isnt any doubt that Mrs O wasnt aware of this. And having looked at the 
mortgage offer, the £999 fee that Mr and Mrs O paid wasnt to switch the mortgage to 
interest only, it was a product fee for the fixed rate of interest that was applied to the 
mortgage  and this is standard practice. 
I think its fair to say that communication could have been clearer by Barclays but the other 
issue that needs to be addressed is the fact that Mr and Mrs O wanted to switch their 
mortgage to interest only permanently. Mrs O contacted Barclays once she received the 
letter which explained the mortgage was going to revert to repayment in May 2021. 
Mrs O believes that they met Barclays criteria to enable them to do this. She thinks that 
Barclays didnt take all her income  namely dividends of £22,500. And she believes that 
had Barclays of included this amount, they would have been able to switch to interest only. 
What I now have to consider is if Barclays carried out the income assessment fairly, based 
on the income evidence that Mr and Mrs O submitted. 
Ive listened to the call recording that Barclays have sent us when Mrs O had a discussion 
with one of the advisers in 2021. Mrs O explains on this call that she has two incomes and 
provided that information. She then provides the income figures for Mr Os gross profit. The 
adviser tells Mrs O that he thinks the criteria has been met, however he later confirmed that 
Barclays would require evidence of the income that was discussed on the call. The adviser 
also asked Mrs O the reason why they wanted to switch the mortgage to interest only and 
Mrs O explained it was to look at making other investments.Ive seen an email from the adviser where he explains to Mrs O that he would send a link for 
the income evidence to be uploaded so that they could review it. Ive looked at the income 
data that Mr and Mrs O provided to Barclays and there is nothing to support that Mrs O had 
dividend income of £22,500. Having listened to the telephone call carefully, where Mrs O 
gave details of her income and Mr Os income, there was no mention of this dividend. 
Ive seen the email that the adviser sent to Mr and Mrs O where he explains that they didnt 
meet the criteria to switch the mortgage to interest only as they were around £9,000 short to 
meet the lending criteria. I havent seen any response from Mr and Mrs O which challenges 
the fact that the dividend has been omitted from the calculation. 
I am therefore satisfied that at the time, Barclays assessed Mr and Mrs Os income correctly, 
based on the evidence that was provided. Lenders are entitled to set and make their own 
lending decisions, but we need to ensure that they have made any commercial judgement 
legitimately. Having considered everything, I think that Barclays have assessed Mr and Mrs 
Os income correctly, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs O are very unhappy that Barclays have not been able to provide 
certain telephone calls, and Mrs O believes that there is a call that confirms the dividends 
have been mentioned. But as Ive said, I havent seen anything for that period of time, either 
on any of the calls I have listened to, any income evidence or any of the email exchanges 
between both parties  that this was mentioned or queried. 
We rely on businesses to provide the Financial Ombudsman with information and evidence 
that we require to make a fair judgement. As Ive mentioned already, we are not there to 
supervise or punish businesses if they are unable to provide us with certain information. 
As Mr and Mrs O are still in a fixed rate period, Barclays have agreed to waive any ERCs 
that Mr and Mrs O would be charged, if they wanted to come out of their fixed rate early. 
This will give Mr and Mrs O the option to seek an interest only mortgage elsewhere. While I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs O have explained they are unable to do this based on their current 
situation, Barclays have done what we would have expected them to do. Mr and Mrs O can 
contact Barclays now to see if they meet the criteria to transfer their mortgage to interest 
only. If they wish to do this, they should contact Barclays to discuss this. 
Barclays have acknowledged that things could have been better and acknowledged the 
mortgage offer that was sent out in November 2020 showed the mortgage was on interest 
only for the remainder of the term. As Ive mentioned, there is no doubt there that this was 
an error  as it was made very clear that the interest only concession was in fact only for 12 
months. Barclays have offered to pay Mr and Mrs O £1,000 compensation which I think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed with my decision, but I am satisfied that 
Barclays have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays have already made an offer to pay £1,000 to settle the complaint and I think this is 
fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £1,000 if they havent already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman