DRN-4189094
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) will not 
refund the money she lost as the result of a scam. 
Mrs F has used a representative to bring her complaint to this service. For ease, I will refer 
solely to Mrs F throughout this decision. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will provide only a summary here. 
Mrs F contacted a scammer about marketing a product. The scammer introduced her to an 
investment platform. My understanding is that Mrs F paid the investment platform via debit 
card and the funds were then sent on to a scam company called B which purported to be a 
crypto trading firm. Mrs F made the following transactions and the payments were made 
using a debit card
Transaction number Date Amount Merchant
1 28/10/2020 £100 Igniter
2 02/11/2020 £500 Igniter
3 27/11/2020 £500 Igniter
4 24/12/2020 £25 Igniter
5 24/12/2020 £5,000 Igniter
6 30/12/2020 -£300 credit Transferwise
7 27/01/2021 -£400 credit Transferwise
8 27/01/2021 -£50 credit Transferwise
9 08/02/2021 -£250 credit Transferwise
10 08/02/2021 £250 Transferwise
Mrs F tried to withdraw some of her profits roughly a year after the scam started. She says 
she was unable to do so and therefore she realised that she had been scammed. Some 
years later Mrs F raised a fraud claim with Halifax. It rejected her claim. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part because he thought that Halifax should have 
intervened at transaction 5 and had it done so the scam would have been stopped. He 
therefore thought that this transaction should be refunded. He did not consider transaction 
10 as a credit was received on the same day so he did not think there was a loss in relation 
to this. He did though after some back and forth decide that there should be a 50% reduction 
to the refund as Mrs F used part of the proceeds of a loan to fund transaction 5 and that had 
Mrs F told the loan provider of her intentions for the loan then it would not have been 
granted. So, he thought that Mrs F contributed to her own loss.
Halifax did agree with this proposed outcome. Mrs F via her representative did not agree as 
they said that Mrs F was honest about the loan purpose as she intended the loan for 
installing a new boiler which she did get done around this time. So, this complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs F made and authorised the payments. Mrs F knew who she was 
paying, and the reason why. At the stage she was making these payments, she believed she 
was transferring funds to invest in crypto. I dont dispute Mrs F was scammed and she 
wasnt making payments for the reason she thought she was, but I remain satisfied the 
transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Halifax has an obligation to follow Mrs Fs instructions. So, in the first 
instance Mrs F is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors that must be 
considered.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the 
payments were debit card payments the principles of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code do not apply in this case.
This means I think that Halifax should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Firstly, I should say that like the investigator given that payment 10 went to an account that 
Mrs F held via a different bank and I cant see that this was listed as part of the scam by 
Mrs F in her initial submissions so I dont think that it is part of this scam.
I think Halifax should be liable for payments 5. Ill explain why.Payments 1,2,3 and 4
There is a balance to be struck. Banks and building societies have obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. In this instance the first four payments were not of an unusual 
size or frequency that I think it should have prompted an intervention from Halifax. So, I dont 
think that Halifax did anything wrong in relation to these payments.
Payment 5
I think Halifax ought to have carried out further checks and spoken to Mrs F before 
processing this transaction. It was larger than the first four payments and was unusual 
enough in itself compared to Mrs Fs normal account usage to have prompted an 
intervention from Halifax.
I also appreciate that Mrs Fs loss didnt materialise directly from her Halifax account in these 
circumstances. But even though she was transferring funds to an account in her own name, I 
still think that Halifax ought to have taken a closer look at payment 5  given the significant 
risk of fraud associated with cryptocurrency investments at the time.
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. 
And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in frequency. So, by the 
time Mrs F started making her investments in October 2020, it is reasonable to say Halifax 
ought to have had a good enough understanding of how crypto scams works  including the 
fact that their customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it 
on again to the scammers.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Halifax shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud at the time Mrs F was making this payment, and that it should have 
led to it intervening to ask further questions about payment 5.
I would expect Halifax to have intervened and asked Mrs F who the payment was for, what it 
was for, and for the  surrounding context of the payment - it could, for example have, asked 
how she had been contacted, whether shed parted with personal details in order to open a 
trading account, whether she was being helped by any third parties e.g. a broker, and how 
she had come across the investment.
I have no reason to believe Mrs F wouldnt have been open with Halifax, and I think she 
would have taken its intervention seriously. So, I think Halifax would have quickly learned 
from its conversation with Mrs F the basic background to the payment instruction  that she 
was buying cryptocurrency and then sending onto what she thought was a cryptocurrency 
type trading investment which shed decided to pursue after learning about it via WhatsApp.
Even though the conversation would have identified the payment was going to Mrs Fs own 
account (before being sent onto the scammers), the conversation shouldnt have stopped 
there on the basis that the money appeared to be going to somewhere safe and within 
Mrs Fs control. This is because by 2020 Halifax was well aware  or ought to have been 
well aware  of how scams like this work  including that the customer often moves money 
onto an account in their own name before moving it on again to scammers. 
So, I think Halifax would have been concerned by what the conversation would most likely 
have revealed and so warned Mrs F, explaining the typical characteristics of scams like this. 
Had it done so I think Mrs F would have listened and recognised she was at risk. I am 
satisfied she would have had second thoughts if Halifax had intervened effectively. It therefore follows I think Mrs F would not have gone ahead with payment 5.
Ive considered carefully whether Mrs F should hold some responsibility for her loss by way 
of contributory negligence. In this instance the investigator said that Mrs F should be partially 
responsible for her loss as she used the majority of the proceeds from a loan to make 
transaction 5. And that during the loan application process Mrs F had not disclosed that her 
loan was mainly being used for investment purposes. 
Mrs Fs representative has argued that she gave the correct reason for the loan to the loan 
provider and she did use the majority of the funds to install a new boiler. I have carefully 
considered this but I think it likely given the timing of the loan and the payments to B that 
when Mrs F took out the loan she did intend to use most of the proceeds to invest with B. I 
also am satisfied that had she told this to the loan provider it would not have agreed to the 
loan. So, I think that Mrs F did contribute to her own loss.
I should also add for the sake of completeness that even had this not been the case I would 
likely have made a 50% deduction for the redress. I say this because I have researched B 
and I can see that around the time that Mrs F was scammed it was promising 1% to 2% a 
day in returns along with other bonuses such as cars and watches. This is considerably too 
good to be true and therefore I dont think anyone could reasonably have thought that this 
was a legitimate company to deal with. I dont think that Mrs F did her due diligence prior to 
investing with B.
So overall and having considered everything I think that Mrs F contributed to her own loss 
and therefore I feel that it would be appropriate to reduce the amount of compensation due 
to Mrs F by 50%.
I have thought about whether Halifax could have recovered the funds via a chargeback but 
given the timescales between when the scam occurred and when Mrs F raised a complaint 
about this matter I dont think a chargeback would have been successful. I also dont think 
that there was any other way to recover the funds.
In relation to interest added to the redress I note that the investigator recommended that no 
interest be due as the loan was applied for prior to the scam payment and therefore had the 
scam not occurred the loan and associated interest would still have to be paid. I am not sure 
I completely agree with this, however I also note that Mrs F did receive credits from B that 
were paid into her wise account and were forwarded to her Halifax account. So I would 
usually think it appropriate to deduct these from the refund due (prior to the 50% reduction). 
Given that roughly the interest that Mrs F would have earned would be commensurate with 
the deduction that I would have proposed from the redress, I think for the sake of avoiding 
further delays that the redress already proposed by the investigator and agreed to by Halifax 
is fair and reasonable given the overall circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
Halifax therefore will have to
Refund 50% of transaction 5
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay the 
redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman