DRN-3684540
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed him in full after he was the victim of 
a scam.
What happened
Early in 2021 Mr B was contacted by a scammer claiming to be an investment broker. They 
persuaded Mr B to start investing his money and provided him with a false platform showing 
him the returns he was making.
It appears under the scammers instructions, Mr B sent money from his Lloyds account, to a 
third party account with a crypto currency trading platform the scammers told him to open. 
From there it seems he sent the money onto scammers. It seems he also allowed the 
scammers to have remote access to his devices while he was making transactions and 
using this they could access the funds.
A few weeks after Mr B started to send money he told the scammer he wanted to withdraw 
funds but they persuaded him to remain invested for another month, providing him with a 
contract that guaranteed him a 35% return. They then told him he needed to pay more to  
release the profits he believed hed accumulated.
Between March and May 2021 Mr B sent the scammers over £32,000 across 29 payments. 
Throughout the scam it appears Mr B was able to withdraw around £10,000 which he 
believed to be profit, but appears to be money the scammers allowed him to access to 
reassure him and tempt him to continue to send more money. His total loss was around 
£22,000.
The majority of the payments Mr B made to scammers were for between £50 and £1,000. 
But some of the payments were for more, around £2,000 and £3,000. The sixth payment Mr 
B made was for over £6,000 and was blocked by Lloyds due to its unusually large value. Mr 
B spoke to Lloyds about this payment, answered some questions about it and was provided 
with general scam warnings. As Mr B was happy to proceed with the payment Lloyds 
allowed this to go through.
I issued my provisional decision in August 2022. In summary I felt that Lloyds ought to have 
done more when it spoke to Mr B and had it questioned him about things sufficiently I 
thought it likely wouldve uncovered the scam and prevented the payments being made. But 
I also thought Mr B hadnt acted reasonably in sending the money he did to scammers so I 
felt he shared responsibility for his loss.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision. He asked me to increase Lloyds liability from 
50% to 70% to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience he and his family had been 
caused by the scam. 
He also asked me to reconsider the total amount payable by Lloyds as he felt it should be 
liable for 50% of his total loss which was £12,723.71 not £11,338.05 as Id set out in my 
provisional decision. Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline 
provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered both parties responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
decision remains the same. For completeness, I have set my provisional decision out below 
and addressed the parties arguments within it to form my final decision.
The payments Mr B made to scammers werent paid directly from his account to the 
scammers. All payments were made via two other accounts both in Mr Bs name and set up 
by him. So Im satisfied the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) doesnt apply in this case.
But, Ive also considered Lloyds other obligations in this case. Theres no dispute the 
payments Mr B made were authorised even though he was the victim of a scam. The 
payments were made by him and under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), and the 
terms and conditions of his account, hes presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have measures in place to look for and identify 
transactions that are significantly unusual, out of character or otherwise might indicate 
someone had been the victim of a scam. And, where it reasonably ought to have identified 
such a transaction, it might be appropriate for it to carry out further checks to satisfy itself its 
customer isnt at risk.
Its clear Lloyds did have these measures in place  it stopped the sixth payment Mr B 
made. And I think this was the first payment Lloyds reasonably ought to have stopped. All 
the other payments up until this point were for relatively small amounts and in line with Mr 
Bs regular spending. So I dont think they reasonably ought to have appeared unusual and I 
dont think theres anything that otherwise wouldve indicated Mr B was at risk.
But, when Lloyds contacted Mr B to discuss the payment I dont think the call went far 
enough in trying to ensure Mr B wasnt the victim of a scam. I dont agree that the answers 
Mr B gave ought reasonably to have reassured the advisor he spoke to.
Mr B was asked what the payment was for and who it was to. He told Lloyds it was to his 
own account and it was an investment. I wouldve expected this to have prompted further 
questions from Lloyds. Upon being told the payment was for an investment I wouldve 
expected the advisor to ask Mr B some basic questions about this, such as what he was 
investing in and how the investment came about.
Mr B hadnt been told to lie to his bank. So I cant see any reason he wouldnt have told it 
what he understood to be the truth  that he had been contacted out of the blue and was 
investing in crypto currency. And I wouldve expected, based on this information, Lloyds to 
have asked further questions that likely wouldve uncovered the scam. I say this because at 
the time Mr B made this payment, I think Lloyds ought to have been aware of the prevalence of the use of crypto-currency investments in scams and ought to have recognised that the 
situation Mr B was in carried all the hallmarks of this type of scam.
I dont think the advisor Mr B spoke to was particularly engaged with the conversation and 
asked him a series of closed questions regarding the payment. So I dont think they probed 
him sufficiently. Ive also listened to the warning they read out and I dont think it was specific 
to his circumstances or relevant to what was happening to him. So I dont think this 
reasonably wouldve prompted Mr B to reflect on his own circumstances or ask more about 
his situation. The majority of the scam warning relates to impersonation scams which isnt 
what Mr B was victim to. Had the advisor questioned him sufficiently, I think they reasonably 
ought to have identified he was the victim of a well known investment scam, and couldve 
provided a targeted warning relevant to him.
Ive noted Mr B was asked if hed been asked to move money, and technically he had been. 
But in Mr Bs view his broker had advised him to invest which isnt quite the same. He was 
also asked if hed downloaded anything and Mr B said no, which wasnt true. But the 
software hed downloaded had been sometime before, not in relation to this particular 
payment. And both of these questions were asked in the context of a standard warning 
around impersonation scams, which again didnt relate to Mr Bs situation and there was no 
genuine engagement or conversation with him about this. So I dont think its the case that 
Mr B lied or provided a cover story. I think the issue here was that the conversation wasnt 
made relevant to him so didnt prompt him to properly reflect on his situation.
Overall I dont think this conversation ought to have reassured Lloyds Mr B wasnt at risk or 
that it provided Mr B with sufficient information or support around the scam hed fallen victim 
to. Had it questioned him as I wouldve expected I think the scam likely wouldve been 
uncovered, so I think its missed an opportunity to prevent the scam from 30 March 2021 
when this conversation took place. I think Lloyds is partially liable for Mr Bs loss from this 
point.
Did Mr B contribute to his loss by way of contributory negligence?
Whilst I do think Lloyds ought to have done more in this case, it isnt Lloyds sole 
responsibility to protect Mr Bs money. He also has an obligation to do this. I understand Mr 
B believes he proceeded with caution in this case because he sent the scammer money 
incrementally and could withdraw funds throughout, but overall I dont agree hes acted 
reasonably in making the payments he has.
From the outset I think there were a number of concerns with the situation Mr B was getting 
involved with. Had he carried out any basic checks or tried to verify what he was being told 
by scammers, Im satisfied he wouldve recognised he was the victim of a scam from the 
outset. So I think he shares responsibility for his loss. I think this because:
Mr B has said he was contacted out of the blue by the scammer and wasnt 
expecting or looking to invest at the time. And based on what hes said it appears he 
accepted what they told him about the investments they were offering without 
researching this or seeking any other advice.
Mr B says he searched the company online and found positive reviews but hasnt 
been able to provide much detail around this. When Ive tried searching for any 
information about the companies involved around the time Mr B was contacted by 
them, I cant find any positive reviews online. Ive also seen that before Mr B made 
his first payment to them, the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) had issued a warning about the company indicating it was a scam. So I think had Mr B carried out 
any basic checks online before he started dealing with the scammer, it wouldve been 
apparent they werent legitimate and he was putting himself at risk.
I can see that following his initial payment of around £1,000 Mr B received more than 
this amount back which appears to have persuaded him to continue sending 
payments. Following this repayment he sent around £16,000 more before receiving 
money back into his account (although I acknowledge that the fake platform provided 
showed him alleged profits). And I accept this initial return plus fake profits wouldve 
been persuasive. But Mr B has also provided his correspondence with the scammer 
during this time. And I think its clear they are applying significant and unprofessional 
pressure to Mr B to send more and more money, despite him asking them not to. I 
think he reasonably ought to have been concerned by this as I dont think its how a 
reasonable person would expect a legitimate broker to act. And although he had 
received back around £1,100 from the scammers, he proceeded to send significantly 
more than this amount without any further return.
It appears the scammer had promised Mr B a guaranteed profit of 35%. I dont think 
its reasonable to expect any legitimate advisor to be offering a guaranteed profit.
Essentially Mr B started sending large amounts of money to an individual, without verifying 
who they were in any way. As I dont think hes acted reasonably in doing this I think hes 
contributed to his loss by way of contributory negligence. So I think Mr B is liable for 50% of 
his loss from the point Lloyds reasonably ought to have prevented the scam.
Mr B has asked me to consider reducing his liability. Hes suggested Lloyds should be liable 
for 70% of the loss rather than the 50% Ive suggested. But I dont think hes presented any 
further evidence that would make that appropriate here. Hes explained the scam has had an 
emotional impact on Mr B and his family and I have no doubt this is the case. But Lloyds isnt 
responsible for the scam itself or the distress the scam might have caused. This has been 
caused by the scammers. And whilst I have outlined it couldve stopped things sooner, for 
the reasons given I think Mr B also couldve done this. So I think its fair in this case for 
liability to be shared equally.
Redress
Lloyds should:
Reimburse Mr B for 50% of the money he paid to scammers from 30 March 2021, 
less the money he received back after this date (£11,338.05).
Add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount from 30 March 2021 (when it had 
the opportunity to stop the scam) to the date of settlement.
Mr B has disputed this amount and said his total loss was £25,447.41 (£35,430 that he 
transferred, less the £9,982.59 he was able to successfully withdraw). But Im not asking the 
business to reimburse him for 50% of his total loss. For the reasons given, I think Lloyds is 
responsible for reimbursing Mr B for 50% of his loss from 30 March 2021 as this is the point 
at which Lloyds was able to prevent the scam.
From 30 March 2021 Mr B sent £31,130 and was able to withdraw £8,453.90. So his loss 
from 30 March 2021 was £22,676.10. Lloyds is liable for 50% of this loss, which is 
£11,338.05.
Most of the money Mr B has used to fund the scam appears to have come from other current 
accounts. So I think its fair that Lloyds pays 8% interest on the 50% from 30 March 2021 until the date of settlement. Mr B has asked me to update the figure to include the 8% 
interest Ive asked Lloyds to apply in this case. But the interest is payable until the date of 
settlement which hasnt been set yet. Lloyds will confirm the interest applicable to 
£11,338.05 when the redress is paid.
Mr B has said hed taken out loans to fund the scam, but the evidence hes sent suggests 
hes taken out loans for considerably more than the amount he sent to scammers. And the 
majority of these loans appear to have been taken out after he stopped paying them. Id also 
note that some of the borrowing appears to be a second charge on his home jointly with 
another party. So I dont think he has evidenced that he funded these transfers with this 
borrowing, or that the borrowing was taken out solely due to the scam. And, although he has 
also said he had to spend money on credit cards due to the scam, based on his statements 
it appears he has used credit cards for a number of years leading up to the scam. So again, I 
dont think Ive seen evidence this use has solely been caused by the scam itself.
Whilst I have no doubt losing so much money has had an impact on his overall finances I 
havent seen sufficient evidence this scam was the sole reason for the borrowing hes 
described. So I dont think its fair in this case to ask Lloyds to also pay the interest Mr B has 
accrued in this borrowing.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank Plc to pay the settlement outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman