DRN-2315480
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1996 in connection with a joint 
mortgage.
Mr W and Mrs W complain Lloyds Bank took too much time to respond to their PPI mis-sale 
complaint and was unsure if the complaint had been closed.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W complain they didnt know PPI had been added to their account; and more 
recently said they were told to get it to secure the mortgage. They said they didnt need it 
because Mrs W was in good health, they could rely on their family to pay and they had other 
insurances to rely on. They also complained about the delays in the way Lloyds Bank 
handled their complaint.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like they were 
offered an optional policy and it was suitable for their needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mr W and Mrs W 
probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mr W and Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. 
The policy only covered Mrs W so I will sometimes only refer to her, but I will refer to Mr W 
and Mrs W where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws and Mrs Ws complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Lloyds Bank made Mr W and Mrs W aware the policy was optional. 
They first said they didnt know they had PPI and later said they were advised to buy the PPI 
to get the mortgage. I looked at the mortgage application form from 1996. It wasnt a 
separate form, but I can see Mrs W answered the eligibility questions and indicated the level 
of cover needed. 
I saw Mr W and Mrs W had signed the application form, so I can reasonably assume they 
checked the contents of the form before signing it to make sure they agreed the contents. So 
I think their signatures were enough for them to have PPI added to their mortgage account 
with their consent and knowledge.
I also noted that the policy was tailored to cover Mrs W for accident, sickness and 
unemployment and that would have been a conscious decision for them to take limited PPI 
cover just for Mrs Ws salary. It is likely that, as Mrs W had a regular monthly income and as 
Mr W was working in an agency which only provided a variable weekly income, they needed 
to protect the mortgage repayments if Mrs W couldnt work. So I think the PPI was most 
likely presented to them as an optional product and it was added to their account with their 
consent and knowledge. 
Lloyds Bank said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for 
Mr Ws and Mrs Ws needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mr W and Mrs W because 
she was eligible for the PPI policy, it seems the policy was affordable for them at the time 
and, it doesnt look like Mrs W was affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the 
policy. 
I then looked into their financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was 
still suitable for them.
Mrs W said she was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits if she 
was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; she also had other insurance policies, 
including life cover. However, having decided they wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think 
Mr W and Mrs W probably thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to them in addition 
to Mrs Ws employee benefits, and her life insurance. I say this because the PPI could have 
paid out for longer than her employee benefits at a time when they might have needed it 
most. So I dont think her employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
I think it was useful for Mr W and Mrs W to be able to rely on the PPI policy for mortgage 
repayments instead of using the other policies; and her life insurance was designed to cover 
other events which this PPI did not cover. So I dont think her finances at the time of the sale 
made the policy unsuitable.  
Mr W and Mrs W said they could rely on their families to pay their mortgage. I understand 
the point they are making, but there was no guarantee they could still rely on this support at 
some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this potential support made the policy 
unsuitable.
I also looked at whether Lloyds Bank gave Mr W and Mrs W enough clear information about 
the policy. In respect of the cost and benefits, it seems the cost and benefits were set out in 
the mortgage offer. I dont know how they were shown during the application process, but I 
cant rule out that they could have been explained to them in the meeting. So as Ive decided 
they chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think that 
having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put them off from 
taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mrs Ws attention. But as she 
wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think she would 
have decided not to buy PPI even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think they were aware PPI was optional and they 
consented to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for their circumstances and that they had 
enough clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. Mr W and Mrs W also complain about the time taken for Lloyds Bank to respond to their 
complaint and further requests for information and they were concerned the complaint was 
closed. I appreciate their frustration going through this; however, Mrs Ws complaint was 
made at a busy time on 28 August 2019 - around the PPI deadline date - and I can see 
Lloyds Bank did send their final response in October 2019. I dont think there was an 
unreasonable delay here, so I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman