DRN-3721544
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that Santander, has decided not to refund her after she was the victim of 
a scam.
Miss E has used a representative to bring her complaint to our service  C.
What happened
Miss E met someone through an online dating website. Miss E says the person she met 
shared pictures of himself with his family and said he had a similar profession to hers  all 
which made it seem genuine and plausible. After a few weeks he persuaded her that she 
could invest money in crypto-currency to earn a good return. Miss E says he shared the 
profits he was making with a particular crypto-currency company and shared photos of his 
portfolio all of which persuaded her she should also invest. 
Miss E said she checked the company website and it had a live chat feature which 
reassured her it was genuine. She didnt carry out any further checks (for example on 
companies house) as the company said it was based in the USA. She was sent a link and 
given a username and password to access the account.
Miss E had an existing crypto-currency platform account provided by L, which had been 
open for at least a year. Miss E sent funds from her Santander account, and another bank 
account, to her account with L. She says she then sent money on from her account with L to 
purchase cyrpto-currency, and thought she was purchasing bitcoin. After seeing an initial 
small return, she invested further funds. When she was asked to pay a management fee and 
she explained she didnt have any more money, the scam was revealed. 
Miss E says she made three cards payments of £500 each, followed by a £10,000 bank 
transfer all to her account with L. The £10,000 was stopped by Santander and Miss E called 
the bank to unblock the payment. She was asked several questions to help to determine if 
she was the victim of a scam. She satisfied the bank that she wasnt and Miss E decided to 
proceed with the payment. She went on to make further payments of £1,500 and £6,000 to 
her L account, following this conversation with the bank.
Santander decided not to refund Miss E. It said it warned Miss E about the dangers of 
scams. Although Miss E suffered a loss, the transactions she authorised from her Santander 
account, were to her own crypto account with L. It advised that she contact L about the 
losses that occurred from that account. 
Miss E didnt accept the banks findings and brought the complaint to our service. Miss E 
says she was advised another crypto-currency provider had been banned by the FCA. And 
when she was asked if she was sure the company was legitimate  she said she had no 
reason to doubt it wasnt. She argues that had the bank asked her further questions such as 
how she had located the company and who had informed her of the company she 
wouldnt have proceeded with the payment.
One of our investigators looked into things. He said: 
- The first three credit card payments wouldnt have triggered Santanders fraud 
systems as they arent of a high value. 
- Santander did intervene with the £10,000 bank transfer and although it didnt go far 
enough, even if it had asked more questions he didnt think the scam would have 
been exposed, as Miss E continued to trust the scammer even after the scam was 
revealed.
- And there wasnt anything negative about the crypto company online to have given 
Miss E concerns or to have persuaded her not to go ahead.
C- on behalf of Miss E disagreed with the investigators findings. It felt it was unfair to state, 
that because Miss E was under the spell, further questioning wouldnt have made a 
difference. It felt that questions such as whether a third party was involved or where she 
found the investment would have exposed the scam. The way she had met the individual 
who gave her the advice would have been a red flag for the bank. And it ought to have 
advised her not to go ahead without seeking financial advice or to carry out further checks. It 
said as Miss E is a professional and understands the importance of receiving advice from 
professionals. And had she received these types of warnings/advice this would have instilled 
doubt in her mind and she wouldnt have gone ahead.
The investigator considered these additional points but concluded that they didnt change his 
findings. He said; even when Miss E was told it was a scam, she continued to contact the 
scammer under the belief he would refund her money. 
C, acting for Miss E, didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have come to largely the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
 
Ive carefully listened to the call between Santander and Miss E when she called up to 
unblock her account, following the attempt to transfer £10,000 to her account with L.
The adviser explains there are lots of scams so the blocks on the account relate to that. 
There is a detailed discussion about Miss Es account with L. The adviser asks if Miss E has 
used L before and she says she has and usually makes transfers from her Santander 
account. The adviser says theres only a £1 payment to L previously. Miss E goes on to say 
shes been with them for years. 
From reviewing Miss Es statements, she has received funds from L several times in the 
year prior to these events. 
The adviser goes on to explain that there are significant risks with crypto-currency 
companies as they arent regulated by the FCA so she has no protection at all and if its a 
scam company - Miss E will lose her money. The adviser also says the FCA is strongly 
advising customers not to continue with companies like L because of the high risk of scams.  Miss E says she is aware of this. Shes asked if shes used this particular company before 
(I think Miss E and the adviser are referring to L) - Miss E says yes, shes asked if shes ever 
been able to draw down money before and Miss E says yes its always successful. Shes 
asked what checks shes made. Miss E says shes been with L for a while and never had 
any issues with them. 
The adviser explains Miss E will be liable as soon as the payment is made. The adviser 
makes sure Miss E opened the account willingly and has sole access to it. Miss E is also 
asked if shes making the £10,000 payment with anyone pressuring her to do so and Miss E 
says she isnt.
The adviser goes on to read a script about impersonation scams, overpayment scams, 
phishing links being sent etc. Miss E is asked again if she has any concerns and wants to go 
ahead, she says yes. The adviser asks if shes been on trust pilot to check if shes not used 
them for a while (here I think shes referring to L again)  Miss E says yes, I have. The 
adviser says they log a lot of scams against these types of companies and thats why shes 
asking so many questions. She says, again, that the FCA strongly advises customers not to 
use them. And she says they have stopped using another cyrpto-currency provider because 
they are also being targeted by fraudsters. Miss E is asked if shed like some time to think 
about it or for the payment to be processed. Miss E says yes go ahead with the payment 
now.
Having listened to this call I agree with the investigator, that the bank could have asked 
some more questions but overall I think the bank did a good job at trying to understand 
Miss Es motives for the transactions, her knowledge and understanding of the risks involved 
in purchasing crytpo-currency and it gave sufficient and repeated warnings about doing so
At no point did this cause Miss E to doubt or question the transaction she was making. 
There was also opportunity in this call for Miss E to explain who else was involved in her 
decision to make with these transactions/investment, but she chose not to share this 
information. I dont think Santander was on notice that any sort of romance element was 
involved here, and it did ask if anyone else was involved and Miss E said no. So Im not 
persuaded that with further questioning she would have revealed her personal 
circumstances and how she came to decide to send money to L and then on from there.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Miss E would have sought additional financial advice 
even if she was advised to. And as Ive said she received several warnings during the call 
with Santander and still decided to proceed. So, Im not persuaded any further warnings 
would have caused Miss E to act differently.
And so, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in deciding not to refund Miss E. 
My final decision
Santander doesnt need to refund Miss E her losses. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman