DRN-2722661
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has declined a claim 
under his commercial motor policy.
What happened
Mr S submitted a claim after he drove through a puddle close to his house and his vehicle 
cut out. When he got his vehicle home via a tow, it became clear it wouldnt start so he 
submitted a claim to Haven under his commercial motor policy. However, Haven advised 
that as hed driven through deep water the claim was excluded.
Mr S was unhappy with this, so he complained to our Service. An investigator looked into the 
complaint, and upheld it stating that Haven hadnt shown any evidence that Mr S had 
recognised the risk and recklessly drove through the puddle. The investigator recommended 
that Haven reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
However, Haven doesnt agree. It says Mr S didnt calculate the risk to his vehicle nor did he 
attempt to safeguard his vehicle. Haven say Mr S proceeded to drive through the water, 
despite the potential risk to his vehicle, and its asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions state that cover is excluded for loss or damage caused by 
driving your vehicle through deep water or rough terrain. Haven says that Mr S didnt make 
any attempt to safeguard his vehicle and he proceeded through the puddle despite the 
potential risk to his vehicle. 
My role is to consider whether its fair and reasonable for Haven to rely on the above 
exclusion and whether Haven has shown it applied the exclusion fairly. So, to fairly refuse Mr 
S claim Haven needs to have shown that he recognised there was a risk of damage to his 
vehicle. And that having recognised that risk he took no action to prevent the damage  or 
took actions he knew to be inadequate. The appropriate test is one of recklessness - as 
applied by courts in Sofi V Prudential. 
And based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Haven has done enough to show that    
Mr S was reckless and drove through water that he knew to be too deep. 
Deep isnt defined in the policy, so I think what is considered deep would be different for 
different types of vehicle. Mr S has a 4x4 pick-up truck, so is higher off the ground than a 
normal car. Mr S lived two minutes away from where the puddle formed, and he says he 
uses this road every day. He says he has never seen this road filled with water like this 
before, and this puddle formed on a bend, so he didnt see it as he approached the bend. 
Also, it was evening time so there was limited light (it was November). He says when he 
came across the puddle first the water only came halfway up his wheel. He says he knew 
the gradient of the road went upwards so he felt it was safe to continue. He says he was 
very surprised when his vehicle went dead, and he opened the door to see the water coming 
into the vehicle. He contacted a family member who was able to tow him using a normal car, 
which would indicate that the level of the water had lowered significantly quite quickly.
From the file I cant see that Haven sought to investigate what happened. The file would 
suggest that once Mr S said hed driven through a puddle, Haven declined the claim 
straightaway. There were emails between the parties where Mr S asked Haven to inspect 
the vehicle and the location of the flood. But Haven advised that cover for this event was 
excluded and continued to decline the claim.
However, based on the evidence presented in this file I dont consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Haven to rely on the exclusion unless Mr S behaved recklessly by driving 
through water that he knew to be too deep. Mr S evidence is that the incident happened on 
a November evening. So, I infer that it was dark. He was on a road he knew well, and he 
says hed never seen water settle on this part of the road before. He entered the puddle 
believing it was safe to do so, and with the knowledge he was approaching an upwards 
gradient. He was driving a 4x4 so he was very surprised when the vehicle cut out and the 
water had risen so high in the seconds since hed first visually checked the water depth. 
Theres no evidence of weather warnings, road closures, police attendance or warning signs.
So, looking at the incident as a whole, I dont find that Mr S drove through water that he 
knew to be too deep. So, I dont consider that Mr S acted recklessly, and I dont think Haven 
treated Mr S fairly by applying the policy exclusion for driving through deep water.
  
Putting things right
To put things right Haven should settle Mr S claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. If this results in a cash settlement, Haven should add interest to the 
amount it pays Mr S at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated from the date he drove 
through the water to the date it makes payment.  
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint and require Haven Insurance Company Limited 
to settle Mr S claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If this 
results in a cash settlement it should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated 
from the date he drove through the water to the date it makes payment.
If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should
also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Derek DunneOmbudsman