DRN-2886458
The complaint
Mr B complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined his claim and 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident and declared a total loss. Watford found that Mr B 
had made modifications to the car after hed taken out the policy. These hadnt been 
disclosed as required. Watford said the policy didnt offer cover for modified cars. So it 
cancelled the policy and declined the claim. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr B should 
have declared the modifications as required by the policys terms and conditions. But he 
thought it was unfair for Watford to cancel the policy and decline the claim. This was 
because the two mid-term modifications were cosmetic and non-fundamental changes. And 
he thought they hadnt changed the risk for the insurer.
He thought Watford should consider the claim and, if it made a payment, add interest to this. 
He thought it should remove records of the cancellation and pay Mr B £300 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Watford replied that it thought the changes had been fundamental and increased the risk of 
theft, for example. It said the policy would have been cancelled if Mr B had told it about the 
modifications. It asked for an ombudsmans review. So the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, when Mr B first took out his policy, the car was unmodified from the 
manufactures standard specification. So Mr B correctly stated then that the car had no 
modifications. 
But I think its agreed that Mr B was required by the policys terms and conditions to declare 
the changes he later made to his car to Watford. But he didnt do this. I think Watford has 
made it clear that it wouldnt have continued to provide cover if it had known about the 
modifications. 
So what I have to consider is whether it was fair and reasonable for Watford to cancel the 
policy mid-term and decline the claim when it found out about the modifications. These were: 
Roof re-wrap and de-chroming of grill
Wheel refurbishment with black powder coat
Our approach is that by issuing a policy, Watford had effectively promised to cover Mr B 
against certain contingencies. And in many cases, if Mr Bs circumstances changed during 
the term of the policy, that was generally just part of the risk Watford agreed to take on. So 
for non-fundamental changes we would not normally expect Watford to then change its mind 
about what cover, if any, it would provide. 
We would accept a fundamental change in the risk to be where modifications had completely 
altered the cars specification, e.g. a higher performance engine. And this wasnt the case 
here. Im satisfied that the changes Mr B made to his car were cosmetic and werent 
fundamental to the risk Watford had agreed to accept. 
Mr B may have made his car attractive to other car-owners, but I dont think this 
fundamentally increased the risk to Watford. So I think it was unfair for it to cancel Mr Bs 
policy mid-term and decline his claim. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Watford has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
And so I think Watford should now consider Mr Bs claim. If it makes a payment, I think it 
should add interest to this as Mr B has been without his money for some time. I think this 
recompenses Mr B for having to pay interest on his purchase of a replacement car. I also 
think Watford should remove any records of the cancellation so that Mr B doesnt have to 
declare this in the future. 
The investigator recommended that Watford should pay Mr B £300 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. I can see that Mr B has been caused stress and anxiety. Hes 
taken time off work. And hes been pursued by another party, and now by Watford, for the 
cost of third party damage. I think £300 compensation for this is fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance.
 Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following:
1. Act as if the policy was still in place and consider Mr Bs claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of his policy.
2. If the claim is accepted and a payment is made, interest should be added to this amount 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the claim was declined (27 October 
2020) until the date of payment. 
3. Remove records of the cancellation from any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded. 
4. Pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unfair 
cancellation and refusal of indemnity.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Watford to take off tax from this interest. Watford must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman