DRN-1329295
 
The complaint
Mr S has consent to let (CTL) on his residential mortgage (mortgage 1) with Bank of 
Scotland plc. He has another mortgage (mortgage 2) with a separate division of BoS, 
Halifax.
Mr S makes two complaints against BoS. The first (complaint 1) arises from the resolution of 
an earlier complaint with which this decision is not concerned. Complaint 1 is set out in 
Mr Ss  complaint form dated 11 January 2019. The second (complaint 2) is set out in his 
email to our service dated 26 September 2019. This decision concerns only one of the 
complaints, but to avoid confusion I will set them both out as follows:
Complaint 1
I have been asking BoS for a product review/better interest rate for several years. Every 
time I would ask they would tell me that my mortgage account was ineligible for a product 
review as it had a consent to lease on it. I recently applied for a further advance through the 
Halifax to pay BoS off, I got declined but Halifax then agreed to give me a better interest 
rate.
I originally bought the house for me to live in on a residential mortgage with BoS. 
Unfortunately [there were problems with] the neighboursand I was subjected to physical 
violence and verbal abuse. I tried to sell the house but there was very little interest and no 
offers. This is the reason I had to move out and the reason I sought consent to lease.
I have explained these reasons to BoS and they would only ever renew the consent to lease, 
they would never agree to a product review/a better interest rate.
I have effectively been pushed out of my home through no fault of my own and then being 
penalised for it by the bank. I do not believe that under the circumstances BoS couldn't have 
done something sooner.
Whilst the UK has had low interest rates I have been paying a high interest rate with BoS. 
Every month I have been paying excessive interest. I feel that BoS could have offered me a 
better interest rate years earlier - if they can do it now they could have done it before but 
chose not to. I would like for them to compensate me from the date I originally asked with 
interest.
Complaint 2
My current complaint is that BoS wont allow me a further advance to release equity so I can 
purchase another property and at no point did the Halifax or BoS explain to me that agreeing 
to the product transfer would prevent me from exploring a further advance with the BoS 
anytime in the future. Yet both banks knew this was something I was considering.
What happenedThis decision concerns complaint 2. 
Mr S bought his house on a residential mortgage (mortgage 1) with BoS. Because of 
problems with the neighbours he tried to sell the house but there was little interest and no 
offers were made. He therefore had to move out, and obtained CTL. 
He subsequently asked BoS for an interest rate product on mortgage 1, but it said the 
account was ineligible because of the CTL. Mr S says that for many years he had been 
seeking an interest-rate product on mortgage 1, without success. Upset about paying a high 
rate of interest on mortgage 1, he then applied for a further advance on mortgage 2, 
intending to use the advance in order to redeem mortgage 1.
His application for a further advance on mortgage 2 was refused based on affordability, so 
Mr S complained. BoS maintained the refusal but as part of the resolution of that complaint, 
it offered to allow Mr S an interest-rate product on mortgage 1 despite the CTL. This would 
normally have been outside its policy.
Mr S then applied to BoS for a further advance on mortgage 1, in order to buy another 
property. But this was refused. On Mr Ss complaint, BoS referred to its letters confirming the 
CTL was a short term solution and as he had said he didn't intend to ever move back to the 
mortgaged property, it was unable to approve the request for a further advance. 
Mr S questioned why BoS was able to waive its policy to allow a product transfer but not to 
allow a further advance. BoS said a product transfer didn't increase the risk to the bank, 
whereas further lending did. It had made an exception to allow the product transfer, but was 
unable to make another exception to allow further borrowing.
BoS said it wouldn't have known when Mr S completed the product transfer that he intended 
to request further borrowing on mortgage 1 whilst he had CTL, as he previously wanted to 
repay this account in full.
Mr S wasn't happy with this and brought complaint 2 to this service, but our investigator 
didn't recommend it be upheld. Mr S didn't agree and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS says it doesn't offer further advances on its CTL mortgages. Its true, as Mr S says, that 
it waived its policy to allow the product transfer. But that didnt increase the lending risk. A 
further advance is different because it involves lending more money.
Mr S says in complaint 2 that BoS failed to explain that agreeing to the product transfer 
would prevent him from exploring a further advance at any time in the future. But it didn't. 
What prevented the further advance was the CTL. This had always been the case since he 
applied for CTL on the mortgage.
And when Mr S first applied for CTL he said it was because his mother was terminally ill and 
in need of constant care and attention, and he needed to reside at her address as she 
couldn't be left on her own. There was no occasion at that time for BoS to mention that CTL 
mortgages didn't permit further borrowing. That question didn't arise. There was no 
suggestion at that point that Mr S might want to borrow more money. I cant say that BoS acted unfairly towards Mr S by adhering to its lending policy on CTL 
mortgages.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman