DRN-4183243
The complaint
Miss T complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2021 Miss T applied for a credit card with 118 118 Money. 118 118 Money 
approved the application and gave Miss T a card.
Miss T complained that 118 118 Money lent to her irresponsibly. She said that at the time 
she applied for the card she had a low credit score, a recent CCJ and several credit 
accounts with missed payments.
118 118 Money didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when Miss T applied for the card she 
had provided details of her income and expenditure, which it had validated using industry 
standard checks and found the credit to be affordable for Miss T.
Miss T remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that 118 118 Money hadnt responded to 
requests from this service for information about the checks it had carried out so he had 
reached a view on the basis of the information provided by Miss T that the lending was 
unaffordable and asked 118 118 Money to refund all interest and charges on the account.
118 118 Money didnt respond to the view, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ts complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, 118 118 Money needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Miss T was able to sustainably repay what was being lent to her. 
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayments and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
118 118 Money hasnt responded to requests from this service to provide information about 
the checks it carried out and the information if gathered. Because of this, I cant be satisfied 
that the checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Using the information available, Ive thought about whether the lending decision as fair. Ive 
not received any information from 118 118 Money, so Ive only been able to take into 
account the information provided by Miss T. Without any evidence from 118 118 Money to 
challenge what Miss T has said about her financial circumstances at the time the card was 
given to her, Im persuaded that the landing decision wasnt fair. Therefore, I uphold the 
complaint. 
Putting things right
118 118 Money must:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss T together with 8% 
simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement.*. 118 118 Money should also remove any adverse information in relation to the 
account from Miss Ts credit file.
If, after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance, 118 118 Money must arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Miss T. Once Miss T has cleared the balance, 118 118 Money 
should remove any adverse information in relation to the account from Miss Ts credit file.
*HMRC require 118 118 Money to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss T 
a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman