DRN-2407473
The complaint
Mr S and Miss V (the policyholders) complain that Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
mis-sold them a mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
In 1993, Prudential sold Mr S and Miss V a with profits mortgage endowment policy. It had a 
target of £62,000 and a term of 25 years. Miss V was later removed from the policy. It was 
assigned to Mr S only in 1996. And he surrendered the policy in 2007. 
In early 2020, Mr S complained to Prudential (via a representative) that the endowment had 
been mis-sold. His main points were that it was too risky, and he should have been sold a 
repayment mortgage instead. But Prudential said the policy had been suitable. Unhappy with 
this response, Mr S and Miss V (still via a representative) referred the matter to our service. 
They were unhappy with how the policy had been described in the application  and they 
also mentioned concerns about the level of borrowing. 
Prudential consented to us considering this case. Our investigator didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold. He thought the policyholders could have taken the low risk the policy was 
reasonably expected to pose at the time of sale. Their representative disagreed, arguing that 
they should have been sold a repayment mortgage over a thirty-year term instead, given the 
overall level of borrowing and the risk involved. But our investigator still thought Prudentials 
advice had been suitable  and that the policyholders had likely been given enough 
information about their repayment options. So, Im now making the final decision on how this 
complaint should be resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont agree that Prudential mis-sold this mortgage endowment policy. Ill 
explain why. 
This was a low cost, with profits policy. At the time of sale, these were generally seen as low 
risk investments that would have been suitable for most people. Its not for me to re-advise 
the policyholders or substitute what I think would have been best for them in 1993 with the 
benefit of hindsight. The key question Ive considered is  did the policy more likely pose a 
risk to the policyholders that they couldnt take or werent suited to? That would be the case 
if they couldnt take any risk with repaying their mortgage. But Id consider it suitable if they 
could and were willing to take a small risk, in exchange for the potential of generating an 
additional lump sum on top of repaying the mortgage at the end of the term. And the likely 
lower monthly costs of an interest-only mortgage compared to a repayment mortgage. 
At the time of sale, the policyholders were engaged and buying their first home. The 
application form says that Mr S was a 24-year-old computer engineer earning £18,320 per 
year. And Miss V was a 23-year-old merchandiser earning £11,000 per year. Given that they 
both said they wanted to retire at 60, and that the term of the policy was 25 years, they 
would be expecting to be economically active  for several more years  when the term 
ended. These circumstances dont indicate that they couldnt have taken the small amount of 
risk this policy would have been seen to present at the time. 
Although their representative has suggested that the policyholders wouldnt have understood 
all the detail of how the policy worked  I think they were aware that there was some risk 
involved. I can see, for example, that the application form mentions that the policy would 
have to achieve 7.5% growth per year to reach the target amount. And it indicates that other 
repayment options were discussed. I do take on board their point about the wording on the 
form. But overall, I dont think theres enough for me to say that the policyholders were given 
incorrect information that induced them into taking a policy they otherwise wouldnt have 
wanted. And I do think it reasonably comes across that there is some risk involved. So I cant 
safely conclude that they couldnt and werent willing to accept any risk  as Id need to do to 
uphold this complaint. I also think the life cover offered by this policy would have been 
suitable for the policyholders, given that the plan was being taken to help repay their joint 
lending. 
I note that the representative has said that a repayment mortgage over a 30-year term 
should have been sold instead. But, as explained, Im not looking at what may have been the 
best option for the policyholders. Im looking at whether the recommendation was suitable. 
Ive explained above why I dont think it was unsuitable to recommend a mortgage 
endowment rather than a repayment mortgage. Additionally, the application states that the 
policy had a 25 year [policy term] and £62,000 [target amount] as this is the amount and 
term of the loan. This suggests Prudential was making a suitable recommendation to match 
their lending  which it didnt provide. And Mr S and Miss V stated in their application that 
they wished to pay off their mortgage early. This seems to contradict the assertion that they 
should have been recommended a longer term.  Id also point out that increasing the term 
would likely have been more expensive in the long-run  due to the additional interest the 
borrowing would incur.   
The representative has also mentioned that they dont think the mortgage was affordable if 
we use 2.5 joint income. This seems to me a distinct point to the complaint initially put to 
Prudential. But, to the extent that this point was included in the complaint form we sent 
Prudential when we took on this case, and as its given us consent, I will say that I agree 
with our investigator that this point doesnt suggest the policy was mis-sold. Prudential 
wasnt the lender here. And the 2.5 measure the representative has mentioned wasnt a 
fixed rule or cap for how much banks could lend. Whats affordable wont solely depend on 
salary and the overall amount of the lending  other factors (such as the loan term, interest 
rate, other debts, disposable income, etc.) will affect this. Even if we follow the 
representatives logic  the measure its referred to was normally seen as a likely gauge of 
how much banks would be willing to lend in relation to salary. According to the information 
recorded on the application with Prudential, the policyholders mortgage was £62,000 and 
their joint salaries came to around £29,320. This suggests the capital borrowing was less 
than 2.5 times their annual salary. So this point doesnt suggest that Prudentials advice was 
unsuitable. 
I do understand why the policyholders have raised this complaint  I know there has been a 
lot of concern about these types of policies/mortgage set-ups. Although theyll no doubt be 
disappointed in the outcome, Id reassure Mr S and Miss V that Ive looked into the individual 
circumstances of their complaint when reaching my decision. Based on what Ive seen, on 
balance of probability, I dont consider Prudential to have mis-sold this policy. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss V to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman