DRN-2371383
The complaint
Ms N complains about the quality of a car she was financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).  
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms N acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Ms N. The car here 
was around three and a half years old and had completed about 11,000 miles. 
I dont think a reasonable person would consider a gearbox to have proven sufficiently 
durable if it failed after only 47,000 miles. 
If Ms N hadnt looked after the car properly she could have contributed to that premature 
failure. However, Ive not seen any evidence that was the case. I say that because:
a full service history has been provided by Ms N;
the diagnostics didnt highlight any concerns about misuse;
the manufacturer provided the parts for nothing and paid for some of the labour costs 
associated with the repair. The car was out of warranty and the manufacturer didnt 
have to provide this support. Whilst it was provided out of goodwill I also think its 
reasonable to suggest that goodwill payment would not have been made if there 
wasnt a likelihood the gearbox had failed prematurely.
So, I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality as I dont think it has proven to be 
suitably durable. VWFS have a responsibility for the quality of the car when supplied and, as 
the car wasnt suitably durable, I think they need to take action to put things right for Ms N.
  
Putting things right
Ms N would not have needed to obtain diagnostic reports if the car had been of an 
acceptable quality. So, VWFS should refund the cost of the two diagnostic reports she 
obtained.
They should also refund the labour cost she incurred of £685.13.
Theyll need to add 8% simple interest to these refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement as Ms N has been deprived of that money.
Its clear Ms N has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take her car back to 
the garage for repairs and to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have 
been resolved earlier. In those circumstances VWFS should compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced and I think a payment of £100 would suffice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
refund £685.13 of labour costs and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund the two diagnostic charges Ms N incurred of £138 and £202 and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Ms N £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman