DRN-1730586
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) told him he had no outstanding balance following the voluntary termination of 
his agreement. It later told him the balance was over £8000.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with BPF. In May 2017 Mr Bs financial circumstances changed and he decided to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.
Mr B says that following the voluntary termination, he didnt hear anything from BPF
He contacted it in August 2019 and was told on two separate occasions that he didnt owe 
anything.
The account was subsequently sold to a third party in September 2019 who contacted Mr B 
and asked him to pay the outstanding balance.
Mr B complained to BPF. In response, BPF said the outstanding balance had been 
transferred to a holding account in October 2017, which had caused confusion when Mr B 
contacted it in August 2019. It acknowledged that Mr B had been provided with incorrect 
information about the balance and offered compensation of £100.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Since bringing this 
complaint, hes also realised that he was charged a collection fee of £84 when he terminated 
the agreement. He says this should be refunded because he returned the car himself.
BPF agreed to refund the collection fee and offered a further £50 compensation, which Mr B 
declined.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the offer made by BPF was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he felt frustrated by the errors made and the incorrect information 
given to him. He wants more compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that at the time he voluntary terminated the agreement, Mr B had only paid one 
monthly instalment. Ive looked at the voluntary termination pack and although it doesnt 
specifically confirm the outstanding balance, it does say that if 50% of the total amount 
payable under the agreement hasnt been paid, Mr B would need to make arrangements to 
pay 50% of the total amount payable. Because of this, I think Mr B wouldve been aware that 
there was a balance to pay.
I cant be certain of whether BPF discussed the outstanding balance with Mr B when he 
called them to request voluntary termination. However, I can see that BPF wrote to Mr B on 
11 December 2017 and confirmed an outstanding balance of £8804.91. Ive got no reason to 
think that Mr B didnt receive this letter. So, whilst I agree that Mr B was given incorrect 
information about the balance when he contacted BPF in August 2019, I think he was aware 
in December 2017 that there was a significant balance.
BPF has acknowledged that it provided incorrect information in August 2019. Ive thought 
about the impact of the error on Mr B. On balance, and because Im satisfied that BPF had 
previously written to Mr B and made him aware of the balance, I think the offer of £100 
compensation if air in the circumstances.
I appreciate that BPF made an error when it added a collection fee to the balance. This has 
already been refunded to the account and further compensation offered. I understand that 
Mr B is frustrated about this but on the basis that he didnt pay the collection fee at the time, I 
think BPF has done enough to resolve this aspect of the complaint.
Finally, I can see that BPF credited Mr Bs account with just over £1000 in September 2019. 
This was in relation to a remediation for failure to send annual statements. Ive thought about 
whether sending an annual statement wouldve made a difference here but on balance, I 
dont think it would. As Ive already said, Mr B was made aware of the balance in December 
2017 , so Im satisfied that he knew about the debt even without being sent statements.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman