DRN-3195543
The complaint
Mr D complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) acted unfairly by paying his 
barristers fees when he was unhappy with the work carried out. 
Amtrust use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage claims 
on their behalf. So any reference to the insurer within this decisions should be read as 
including the acts and omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate that Amtrust initially said that funding was only available for the direct 
access barrister to complete a legal assessment  not to carry out negotiations with 
Mr Ds employer. But upon review, the insurer decided that it would be reasonable for 
them to cover the barristers fees for the settlement negotiations he carried out. So, 
even though such costs may not strictly be covered under the policy terms and 
conditions, Amtrust is entitled to exercise their discretion to cover certain costs on a 
goodwill basis if they deem it appropriate.
There is nothing wrong with the insurer doing this, so long as it does not cause any 
detriment or financial loss to the policyholder, which I do not consider it has in these 
circumstances. Mr D has had the costs of an invoice covered that he wouldve 
otherwise had to pay himself, so it has been to his benefit. His claim has also now 
been settled, so theres also no question of the indemnity limit being unfairly reduced 
by uninsured costs either. 
I note that several concerns have also been raised by Mr D about the actions of his 
direct access barrister, as he says he was pressured by him into accepting a 
settlement from his employer. However, as the investigator has already highlighted, 
Amtrust is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert 
dealing with the case (and neither are they responsible for the acts or omissions of 
the legal professional). As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the 
claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations 
reasonably and dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to consider the quality of 
legal advice or the actions of a barrister/solicitor as this falls under the remit of the 
Legal ombudsman.
As I have already set out above, I do not consider that Amtrust have acted unfairly by 
paying the barristers invoice. I understand that Mr D was not happy with the work 
carried out by his direct access barrister. But that does not mean the costs would not 
have been payable, or that Amtrust was wrong to pay them. I also note that Mr D 
says this matter has affected his wellbeing. Im sorry to hear that his health has 
suffered as a result of his claim. But Im not persuaded this can fairly or reasonably 
be attributed to any acts or omissions of Amtrust as the insurer. So, I will not be 
directing them to pay any compensation in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D. But Im not persuaded that 
Amtrust has done anything substantially wrong here, so I will not be asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman