DRN-3827094
The complaint
Mr E says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £3,000 that 118 118 Money provided
to Mr E on 10 March 2020. The monthly repayments were £215.14 and the total repayable 
was £5,163.36.
Mr E says the loan was not affordable for him and he struggled to repay it. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Es complaint. He said 118 118 Moneys checks were 
proportionate and did not show anything that ought to have led it to make a different lending 
decision.
Mr E disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Es complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that  
Mr E would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr E wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr E. In practice this
meant that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Mr E undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some
information from Mr E. It asked for his monthly income, his housing costs and his general
living costs. It says it sense checked these against reasonable averages, it hasnt confirmed 
if it then made any adjustments. It carried out a full credit check to understand Mr Es credit 
history and his existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loan which 
was other. Based on these checks 118 118 Money thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term of the loan, the stage in the lending
relationship and the amount of the monthly repayment relative to Mr Es declared income.
The lenders checks showed Mr E would have around £545.11 monthly disposable income 
after taking on this loan. His credit check showed a relatively low level of existing debt  
£2,089.  There was some adverse information  for example, a default in 2018 but Mr E had 
almost cleared that balance with £90 remaining. He had missed some payments on a credit 
card more recently but had made his payment in the two months prior and the balance was 
not high at £129.  So I dont think this data was enough to have made 118 118 Money think 
there was a risk this loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr E.
I am sorry to hear it was hard for Mr E to make his repayments but based on the results of 
the lenders checks I dont think it was irresponsible for 118 118 Money to lend to him. And I 
think the checks were sufficient in the circumstances of the application.
It follows I dont think 118 118 Money was wrong to give this loan to Mr E.
Ive also thought about whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly in some other way and I
havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman