DRN-3326650
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (Ecclesiastical) hasnt 
paid a claim for a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were insured under an annual travel insurance policy, provided by
Ecclesiastical. They were due to travel abroad on a skiing holiday, to a country which Ill call
F, on 17 March 2020.
From 14 March 2020, the government in F began to introduce restrictions due to the
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. These included the closure of non-essential
establishments, the reduction of public transport and the closure of ski resorts. On 17 March
2020, the same day Mr and Mrs H were due to travel to F, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth
& Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO))
advised against all but essential international travel.
Mr and Mrs H were therefore unable to go on holiday and they made a claim under their
policy with Ecclesiastical for their non-refundable accommodation costs.
Ecclesiastical said Mr and Mrs Hs policy didnt cover the circumstances they found
themselves in. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to Ecclesiastical before bringing their
complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said, although Mr and Mrs Hs claim
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy, she thought it would be fair
and reasonable for Ecclesiastical to cover their claim regardless. This was because Mr and
Mrs Hs policy didnt provide any cover for travelling against FCDO advice and our
investigator didnt think it was fair for Mr and Mrs H to be left in the position of having no
cover if they travelled, but also having no cover if they cancelled their holiday.
Ecclesiastical didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Mr and Mrs Hs complaint was
referred to me. I made my first provisional decision about the complaint in December 2021.
In it, I reached the following conclusions:
Mr and Mrs H didnt travel for two reasons - because the government in F introduced
restrictions, and because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to F;
Neither of these reasons for cancellation are specific, listed insured events for which
cancellation cover is provided under their policy;
However, I said I thought it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for
Ecclesiastical to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and
conditions and to treat Mr and Mrs Hs claim as being covered under the cancellation
section of their policy;
This was because I didnt think the fact that there was no cover under Mr and Mrs Hs
policy for cancellation claims in the event of FCDO advice changing was clearly
brought to Mr and Mrs Hs attention  and I set out the reasons why;
These reasons included the content of the Insurance Product Information Document
and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance contract with 
Ecclesiastical.
Mr and Mrs H responded to my first provisional decision and said they had nothing further to
add. Ecclesiastical replied with a detailed response. Ive considered everything Ecclesiastical
has said and Ive summarised what I think is the key argument as follows:
Mr and Mrs H didnt travel because of the closure of ski resorts and the reduction of
public transport in F. The FCDO advice of 17 March 2020 was completely irrelevant
to their decision. Therefore, the exclusion in their policy relating to travelling against
FCDO advice is also irrelevant.
This service has since asked Mr and Mrs H for evidence of when their flights and
accommodation were cancelled. Mr and Mrs H have provided emails showing this happened
on 14 March 2020.
I made my second provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint earlier this month. In 
it, I said:
Many of the arguments which Ecclesiastical raised in response to my first provisional
decision are, to my mind, not central to the outcome of this complaint. However, what I think
is central to the outcome is the reason why Mr and Mrs H didnt travel as planned.
Ecclesiastical says Mr and Mrs H didnt travel because of the closure of ski resorts and the
reduction of public transport in F. The evidence which Mr and Mrs H have now provided
confirms this was the case. The evidence shows they cancelled their trip  including the
flights and accommodation - on 14 March 2020, which was before the FCDO advised
against all but essential international travel on 17 March 2020. So, I cant fairly say Mr and
Mrs H cancelled their trip because FCDO advice changed.
Although FCDO advice did subsequently change, making it unlikely that Mr and Mrs H could
have travelled anyway (even if theyd wanted to), this wasnt the reason for their claim.
Theyd already taken the decision to cancel their trip on 14 March 2020, prior to the advice
changing.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, particularly as I said I intended to uphold their
complaint previously. But, the reason for their claim was the closure of facilities at their
destination abroad, and this isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their insurance
policy
While there may be a gap in cover in Mr and Mrs Hs policy  meaning theyd have no cover
if they travelled against FCDO advice but also would have had no cover if theyd cancelled
because of a change in FCDO advice  I cant fairly ask Ecclesiastical to cover Mr and Mrs
Hs claim when their trip was cancelled for a different reason.
So, I dont now intend to direct Ecclesiastical to do anything further.
Ecclesiastical didnt respond to my second provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H replied and 
said they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided any new evidence or additional submissions, I see no reason 
to change my second provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman