DRN-3883290
The complaint
Mr H complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined his 
storm claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim to RSA for the damage caused to his main property and calf shed by a 
storm. RSA instructed Mr H to find a roofer to determine the work that was required. RSA 
said Mr H should get the work carried out if it was to cost less than £1,500 and asked him to 
submit an invoice and details of the work. However, as the work was over this level, RSA 
decided to appoint a surveyor to review the damage.
RSA said the roof at the rear of the property was in poor condition. It said, I dont think we 
can accept the widespread damage to both roofs is consistent with a single one-off event of 
storm. It said a well-maintained roof would be capable of withstanding these conditions.
Mr H said he had always maintained his roof and provided some invoices related to some 
previous work. He said the roof served its purpose before the storm and was watertight. He 
said the damage he had claimed for had been caused by the storm.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought RSA had provided 
evidence to support why it had declined the claim for wear and tear. As, wear and tear is 
excluded from the policy, he thought RSA had been reasonable to decline the claim. Mr H 
disagreed with our investigator, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 8 December 2022. I said:
I have started by considering whether I think RSA were reasonable in declining the claim. 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
RSA has acknowledged that the weather at the time met its definition of a storm, so I dont 
need to consider this point any further. Ill consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Significant winds could result in tiles or other items been blown from a roof or causing them 
to become dislodged. Therefore, as the damage observed was like this, I do think the 
damage claimed for is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. Therefore, I will 
consider the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have considered what RSA said when it declined the claim. It said the wind had highlighted 
a pre-existing issue on the two roofs. I have checked the terms and conditions of the policy 
and it shows that the policy doesnt cover damage caused by anything which happens 
gradually or damage caused by wear and tear. I appreciate Mr H says the policy indicates 
any settlement will be reduced for wear and tear, but the policy says this only applies where 
the damage is covered by the policy. As RSA said the claim wasnt covered, the reduced 
settlement doesnt apply here.
I have also noted a general condition in the policy which falls under taking care, which the 
policy defines as your family must take all reasonable steps to prevent loss or damage to 
everything which is covered by this insurance. Your family must keep all the property in good 
condition and in good repair.
Therefore, I think if RSA has shown there was pre-existing damage to the roofs then Im not 
likely to uphold this complaint. I will also consider if theres evidence of reasonable 
maintenance to keep the property in good repair.
Its RSAs obligation to prove the exclusion clause applied specifically in this case and I can 
see it has used the surveyors report along with a review of photographs to come to its 
conclusion. I think this is a reasonable approach.
In respect of the rear part of the main roof, RSA said the widespread damage of slipped, 
cracked or missing slates indicates an ongoing issue of maintenance and I struggle to 
believe all these areas only became apparent after the storm. If you compare the first picture 
on page 11 of the report, which shows the main roof at the rear versus the extension and 
look at the difference in quality and appearance. This helps prove our decision that a well-
maintained roof would be capable of withstanding these conditions.
I can only make decisions based upon the evidence that is provided to me. RSA have had a 
report produced by an expert which has led to them declining the claim. I think the 
conclusions it has made seem fair. The photographs provided dont appear to contradict 
what RSA has said, so I think it has taken a reasonable approach.
I appreciate Mr H has shown some evidence of maintenance of his property, but this 
evidence is limited and doesnt provide me with assurance that the roof has been properly 
maintained. I think RSA has shown through its comparison with an adjacent roof, that the 
roof that was looking in better condition showed no signs of damage. Therefore, I think on 
the balance of probabilities, the storm wasnt the main cause of damage to the rear part of 
the main roof, I think it merely highlighted a pre-existing condition. I think if it had been better 
maintained it also wouldve withstood the storm. Therefore, I dont intend to uphold this 
aspect of the complaint
In respect to the calf shed, RSA said the roof looks in better condition than the rear of the 
main roof, Mr Hs comments indicate the roof has been in place since 1960 and I think its 
reasonable to expect that general wear and tear will have occurred during this period. The 
wind dislodged the metal ridge, but considering the ridge remained in place on the main roof, 
there is likely to be underlying issues present.The surveyor said, the slates are dislodged on most of the roof. I dont find RSAs 
conclusions persuasive here. Mr H said he had to point out to the surveyor the metal ridge 
on the top of the shed had blown some distance away from the structure. Having reviewed 
the photographs, I dont think there is widespread damage  the slates still appear to be in a 
uniform position. RSA said itself the roof was in better condition than the main roof. I dont 
think its reasonable to say wear and tear is the cause simply because of the age of the 
building or that implying there maybe underlying issues. I think RSA needs to prove this and 
show evidence. I dont think it has on the calf shed, therefore, I intend to uphold this aspect 
of the claim. The damage to the slates isnt widespread like on the claim for the main roof, so 
I think its more likely the storm caused this damage.
Therefore, I intend to require RSA to settle the claim for the calf shed in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Im not anticipating the whole roof will need 
replacing, but I would expect the dislodged slates to be replaced and the metal ridge, so the 
shed is returned to its pre-loss condition.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr H said, I am pleased to note that in respect of the calf shed [the ombudsman] considers 
that payment should be made in full with the issue of the rear of the main house 
outstanding.
Mr H has provided a detailed and thoughtful response in relation to the issue of the main 
house roof. Mr H has explained how the appearance of slate tiles can differ depend on 
where they are sourced from. He stated that damage was caused by the storm  he said the 
slates werent damaged prior to the storm. He has provided information in relation to the 
construction of his home and his efforts over the years to maintain his home himself as well 
as more recently with external contractors. Mr H explained how he witnessed himself how 
the sarking was detached from the corner rafter and was hanging loose on both sides. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should clarify that I didnt say the payment should be made in full for the calf shed  I set 
out that part of the claim should be settled in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. I dont see any reason to change my approach on this point. The terms and 
conditions reasonably set out how a claim should be settled.
Our service is one where we base our decisions on the evidence that is presented by both 
parties. I have considered the response provided by Mr H in relation to the main roof. It 
wouldnt be fair to alter my decision based solely on Mr Hs additional testimony, I would 
need to see supporting evidence as well.
Unfortunately, no new evidence has been put forward that has persuaded me to alter my 
decision. I know this may disappoint Mr H, but I think Ive made a fair decision on the reports 
and photographs that have been provided to me. I havent seen anything that leads me to 
want to change my decision and the justification I laid out in my earlier provisional decision. 
Therefore, my decision remains unchanged.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
to:
Settle the claim for the calf shed in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman