DRN-4335246
The complaint
Mr T complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to inform him of his pension 
options before he turned 75 years of age. He no longer has the option to drawdown his 
pension as he wanted. He says had he been made aware; he would have acted differently.
What happened
Mr T originally took out a pension with Friends Provident, which was then acquired by 
Friends Life and now by Aviva.
He explains that he is not in good health and had waited to access this pension hoping to 
draw the full amount as cash to purchase a bungalow to give him a better standard of living.
Mr T says he did receive some paperwork but wasnt aware his options would be different at 
age 75 and had he known he would have taken steps to look into things. When he realised, 
he wouldnt be able to drawdown his pension, he complained to Aviva.  
On 5 June 2023, Aviva issued its final response letter. It didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It 
said it had sent numerous letters in the three years preceding Mr Ts 75th birthday. Some 
letters asked him to call them to discuss his retirement options and others drew his attention 
to the fact options would be lost if he didnt decide before, he reached 75 years of age.
Disappointed, Mr T brought his complaint to his service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr T. She looked carefully at all the correspondence 
from Aviva since 2019. She found nearly all of them referred to Mr Ts retirement options and 
asked him to contact Aviva to choose what he would like to do with his funds once he 
reached 75 years of age. The letters also explained what would happen with the policy if 
Aviva didnt hear from him once he reached 75. She found in total; nine letters were sent to 
Mr T regarding his options. The investigator found that all the letters were correctly 
addressed, and none were returned undelivered. So, in her view Aviva had informed Mr T 
about the options available for a number of years before he reached his 75th birthday and 
she didnt find it done anything wrong.
Our investigator spoke with Mr T after she issued her view. He was very disappointed. He 
felt Aviva was making up rules to benefit themselves and this had impacted greatly on his 
plans to purchase a bungalow which would make a huge difference tohis standard of living. 
He asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. I have independently reached the same outcome as our investigator and 
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know Mr T will be disappointed, Ill explain why.
I have summarised this complaint in less detail that Mr T has done and, Ive done so using 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  whether Aviva met its 
regulatory obligation to notify Mr T of his retirement options before his 75th birthday and the 
implication of not deciding beforehand.
Its probably important to say at the outset this service isnt intended to regulate or punish 
businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, 
this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things 
right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if 
the problem hadnt occurred.
I would also like to reassure Mr T that I have listened to the telephone calls between him, 
and this service and I am fully aware of the impact Mr T feels this issue has had on his ability 
to purchase a bungalow to improve his standard of living and I sympathise with the current 
issues he faces because of his ill-health.
But as I have said, my role here is to determine if Aviva has acted unfairly and Im not 
persuaded it has done anything wrong. It sent a number of letters to Mr T before he reached 
75 years of age, drawing his attention to the need for him to make some decisions and the 
implications if he did not. These letters were sent up to three years earlier and having looked 
at them carefully, they do make clear the action that he needed to take.
I appreciate Mr T would have liked the letters to have been in a different format and he has 
said he doesnt always read all the information in full. But this service isnt able to direct a 
business as to how it should communicate with its customers. The regulator sets out what 
should be included, and I can see the information required was contained within those 
letters.
Aviva has explained, Mr T can only take an annuity with them, or take an annuity with a tax-
free lump sum but the terms of Mr Ts plans dont provide for the payment of a tax-free sum 
beyond age 76. From listening to the calls, I was pleased to hear Mr T now has a pensions 
adviser and it is very important he reaches a decision before any further options are lost.
Im satisfied Aviva made him aware of his options, in good time for him to act. And I dont 
think it made an error or treated him unfairly or unreasonably. So, whilst I sympathise with 
Mr T, I must be fair to both parties, and it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell Aviva it cant 
follow its normal business practices. That means I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman