DRN-3557514
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
didnt provide cover for legal expenses she incurred when defending a claim a contractor 
brought against her. 
What happened
Mrs W has home and lifestyle cover with NFU which includes legal expenses insurance. In 
August 2020 there was a flood at her property and she contacted NFU to claim for repair 
costs. She subsequently appointed a contractor to carry out the work but was unhappy with 
the quality of work. The contractor claimed against her for the amount it felt was owed and 
instructed solicitors in November 2021. Mrs W asked NFU for assistance and said a legal 
response is required. NFU said this was a civil matter between Mrs W and the contractor 
which it wouldnt be able to assist with. 
Mrs W instructed her own solicitors. There was further correspondence with NFU in which it 
reiterated that, while the amount due to the contractor was covered by her policy, the legal 
costs incurred fell outside of the insurance contract and it wouldnt consider these. In 
February 2022 Mrs Ws solicitors advised they had agreed settlement with the contractor 
and NFU made payment for that amount. It again said there was no cover under the policy 
for costs relating to the private legal dispute she had with the contractor.  
Our investigator agreed there was no cover under the buildings insurance section of Mrs Ws 
policy. But her policy included legal expense insurance. She thought NFU should have 
considered a claim under that section rather than telling Mrs W this was a civil matter that fell 
outside of her insurance. She accepted that claim was unlikely to be covered because the 
legal expenses policy excluded construction claims with a value of over £50,000. But she 
thought providing inaccurate information had caused Mrs W avoidable distress at a 
particularly difficult time. She said NFU should pay her £250 in recognition of that. 
NFU didnt agree. It said as the legal expenses policy wouldnt have been able to assist 
there was no need to refer Mrs W to the administrator of it. It also said Mrs W had made 
previous claims on her legal expenses insurance so would have been aware of the process 
for doing so. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs W has concerns about the handling of her buildings insurance claim by 
NFU. However, those are being considered as part of a separate complaint. In this decision 
Im only considering the complaint about her legal expenses and the action NFU took when 
she asked for these to be considered. 
I agree with our investigator theres no cover for legal expenses under the buildings 
insurance section of her policy. But Mrs W does have legal expenses insurance cover so I 
think NFU were wrong to tell her (on a number of occasions) that this was a civil matter that 
fell outside the cover provided by her policy. Mrs W was clearly seeking assistance with a 
matter that fell within the scope of her legal expenses policy. So NFU should have dealt with 
it as a separate claim under that section of cover. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Mrs W has lost out because it didnt do that. I can see 
the legal expenses policy does exclude claims for construction work on any land, or 
designing, converting or extending any building where the contract value exceeds £50,000 
(including VAT). I dont think its in dispute that the value of the contract in this case was in 
excess of £50,000. So that exclusion would likely apply here. That means even if NFU had 
considered a legal expenses claim, cover wouldnt have been provided under the policy. 
But it did provide Mrs W with inaccurate information about the reasons for that. And if it had 
let her know the correct position from the outset shed have been clear about that. I think its 
reasonable to say some of the subsequent correspondence with NFU about this issue from 
Mrs W and her solicitors could then have been avoided. Ive also taken into account that this 
was clearly an extremely difficult time for Mrs W given the ongoing issues she was facing 
with her property and the uncompleted works to it. I think thats likely to have increased the 
impact on her of this error. 
NFU says Mrs W was already aware of the legal expenses element of her policy because 
shed made previous claims on it. The evidence its provided in support of this is limited. But 
even if that is the case the issue isnt that Mrs W was unaware she had legal expenses 
cover but that NFU didnt set up a claim from her about this when it should have done or 
provide a correct rationale for why that wouldnt be covered. I think the £250 our investigator 
recommended for the distress she was caused by that failing is reasonable.
 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited will need to pay Mrs W £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman