DRN-4337307
The complaint
Mr S complains Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his contents insurance 
policy.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr S had a contents insurance policy with Haven. In March 2023, he made a claim on it for 
damaged contents. Mr S was paid £130.20 for his claim (£280.20 less his excess of £150).
When Haven sought to recover its outlay from the third party (which Ill call the TP in this 
decision), the TP confirmed Mr S had already been reimbursed for his contents claim and his 
policy excess.
Haven contacted Mr S about this and explained he couldnt receive two payments for the 
same claim. It asked him to return the payment to it within 7 days. Mr S raised a complaint 
which Haven didnt uphold. In its response it asked him to pay back the £130.20 by 19 June.
On 12 June, Haven told Mr S it was cancelling his contents insurance policy on 19 June 
2023 if the requested payment wasnt received. It wasnt and so his policy was cancelled 
with effect from 19 June. 
A further complaint was raised by Mr S as he was unhappy with how Haven had dealt with 
the matter and corresponded with him. Haven considered this but didnt change its decision 
to cancel the policy. Mr S didnt think hed been treated fairly, so he asked our service for an 
independent review. 
The Investigator looked into matters. They thought Haven acted in line with the policy terms 
and didnt treat Mr S unfairly when it made the decision to cancel the policy. Further, they 
didnt agree Haven treated Mr S unreasonably or failed to accommodate his needs. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S was unhappy with the Investigators recommendation. This matter has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must tell Mr S I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, 
I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
To cancel Mr Ss cover, Haven relied on the follow term which is set out in the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss policy.
We or Your Broker may cancel the insurance by sending 7 days notice of 
cancellation to the email address held on file by Us or Your Broker, or to Your last 
known postal address (where We are unable to locate a valid email address). You 
will not be insured from the 8th day after the notice is issued to You. The notice will 
provide an explanation as to why Your policy is being cancelled.
I dont find this term unreasonable given the nature of an insurance contract. Haven did give 
7 days notice to Mr S of its intention to cancel his policy. It also confirmed to him once the 
policy had been cancelled. 
What I must decide, therefore, is whether Haven applied this term fairly. 
As Mr S had been paid for his damaged contents by the TP and Haven, hed recovered 
double the amount due to him. In this situation, it was fair for Haven to require Mr S to return 
to it the sum paid under his insurance claim as it was no longer able to recover this from the 
third party. Also, an insurance contract is designed to cover a persons loss  as Mr Ss loss 
had been covered by the TP, he was no longer in a position where Haven was required to 
cover his loss. When he failed to return the money to Haven despite a number of requests, I 
consider it was fair and reasonable for Haven to give him notice to cancel the policy. 
Further, I find it reasonable for Haven to decide the failure of Mr S to return the payment of 
£130.20 to it - even with the backdrop of what Mr S has said about his personal situation  
allowed it to cancel Mr Ss policy. I note Mr S says he told Haven hed try to sort out payment 
when the head of complaints phones him. But it didnt need to do this for Mr S to have made 
payment - Mr S was already obligated to return this to Haven having recovered money for 
the same loss twice. 
Turning now to the treatment Mr S says he received which he feels was shocking and 
disgusting. I also recognise Mr S says its an unfair situation. But I dont see things the same 
way. From my review of the correspondence, I dont consider the level of service given to 
him by Haven fell below the standard Id have expected. In fact, Im satisfied the various 
complaint handlers acted professionally offering support and assistance, even when faced 
with challenging behaviours. 
Mr S says he hasnt been treated fairly as Haven didnt listen or support him before 
cancelling the policy even though he was vulnerable and suffering from complex mental 
health problems. Whilst I understand Mr S feels this way, having looked at all the evidence, I 
dont think Haven has done so. Nor do I think Haven acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
making its decision to cancel his policy nor in its handling of the matter and communications. 
I hope it helps Mr S to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his 
concerns.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Haven  can do for him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman