DRN-3098147
The complaint
Mrs H complains Bank of Scotland plc wont refund a payment made to a fraudster from her 
account. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs H was recovering from a serious medical event. Her accountant, whom 
shed given permission to both access her online banking and make payments on her behalf, 
received an email which appeared to come from Mrs H requesting a payment. The email had 
actually come from a fraudster.
The accountant made the payment of £4,589.13, but a second request for payment caused 
suspicion and, after the accountant contacted Mrs H, the fraud was discovered. The matter 
was reported to Bank of Scotland, but Mrs H thought its response was dismissive and 
unhelpful.
Bank of Scotland refused to provide a refund  arguing that Mrs Hs accountant had made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for belief  an exception to reimbursement under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code. It, however, accepted that the service it 
provided was poor and paid Mrs H £100. Later, Bank of Scotland said it wouldnt provide a 
refund because Mrs H had breached the terms and conditions of her account by allowing her 
accountant to transact on her behalf, without the bank having formally agreed such an 
arrangement. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They didnt think it could be considered 
under the CRM Code because the payment hadnt been authorised in the way the Code 
requires. Neither were they of the view that there were any other grounds to ask Bank of 
Scotland to reimburse Mrs H.
Mrs H disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
I wrote to Mrs H in advance of my final decision to explain that I intended to reach the same 
outcome as the investigator, but for slightly different reasons. I asked Mrs H whether she 
wished to provide any further information in advance of my final decision. In summary, she 
said:
- My view of the case is based on legal technicalities, rather than moral principle and it 
is at odds with the idea that the banks should help people whove fallen victim to 
scams, particularly those who are experiencing illness
- Bank of Scotland should have acted more quickly and, if they had, its conceivable 
her money might have been recovered
- The bank which received her money should have done more thorough checks before 
allowing someone to open a bank account
- She disputes any suggestion she authorised the payment, given that it is clear that 
the instruction to make it was fraudulent 
- It is an accepted practice in business that accountants have access to their clients 
accounts and there is no reason why her accountant shouldnt have been able to act 
on her behalf
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im saddened to hear of what happened to Mrs H, particularly given her circumstances at the 
time. Its also important to say that theres no dispute that the instruction Mrs Hs accountant 
received was fraudulent and her accountant would not have proceeded with the payment 
had they known this. However, I need to consider whether the bank should be responsible 
for her loss. 
In doing so, the following questions are relevant:
- Is Bank of Scotland liable to reimburse Mrs H under the provisions of the CRM 
Code?
- Do the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) require Bank of Scotland 
to reimburse Mrs H?
- Considering Mrs Hs previous account usage, should Bank of Scotland have done 
more to protect her from financial harm from fraud? 
- Could Bank of Scotland have done anything further to recover Mrs Hs money?
It doesnt appear to be disputed that Mrs H gave her accountant her security information and 
permission to transact on the account without any formal agreement with the bank. While her 
reasons for doing this are understandable, this action has significant implications for her 
under the CRM Code and PSR 2017.
The CRM Code was introduced in 2019 to reimburse victims of authorised push payment 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. However, the CRM Code doesnt apply 
to all transactions and I dont think the circumstances here are covered. Ill explain why.
The CRM Code only applies to Customers making authorised transactions. Under 
DS1(2)(e) a Customer is defined as A payer as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs, that 
is, a person who holds a payment account and initiates, or consents to the initiation of, a 
payment order from that payment account 
So, the definition of a Customer extends only to an account holder who:
- Makes a payment themselves; or 
- Specifically consents to another person making a payment on their behalf
Here, the permission given to the accountant seems to have been of a general nature  and 
certainly didnt cover the disputed transaction which Mrs H was unaware of until later. So, 
Mrs H does not fit the definition of a Customer under the CRM Code and it does not apply to this payment. Its also worth noting that, in any case, it wouldnt be possible to apply the 
CRM Code to this situation, given that it would require an assessment of Mrs Hs reasonable 
belief in a payment she knew nothing about.
Im satisfied the transaction is, strictly speaking, unauthorised for the purposes of the PSR 
2017 for the same reasons set out above  Mrs H neither made the transaction nor gave 
anyone else specific permission to carry it out. While a bank is normally responsible for 
unauthorised transactions which debit a customers account, it isnt where the customer has 
intentionally failed to adhere to the terms of their account or their obligations to keep their 
security credentials safe. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs account (under term 2.2) prohibit the sharing of the kind 
of security information which was disclosed. It isnt disputed that Mrs H intentionally shared 
this information with the accountant. As such, I do not find that Bank of Scotland are 
responsible under the PSR 2017 for the loss either. 
In the alternative (and as the investigator concluded), the transaction could be considered 
authorised on the basis that Mrs Hs accountant was acting as her agent, with her authority. 
Again, its important to stress that such a finding is not a conclusion that Mrs H sent the 
instruction for the payment nor that she would have agreed to it had she known the full facts, 
it is only that the accountant made it using the authority shed been given by Mrs H to 
instruct payments on her behalf. In any case, such a finding makes no difference to the 
outcome of the complaint as account holders are, in the first instance, responsible for 
authorised transactions and the circumstances of the payment would still not fall within the 
CRM Code. Therefore, Ive gone onto consider whether there is any other reason Bank of 
Scotland ought to refund Mrs H.
Mrs H points out that, had the bank contacted her, the scam would have come to light (given 
that she was unaware of it). But I need to consider whether the transaction was so 
remarkable that Bank of Scotland ought to have contacted Mrs H before allowing it to debit 
her account. 
And, while Id expect a bank to have systems in place to monitor and detect transactions 
which might be out of character for its customer, theres no general obligation on it to alert its 
customer to each and every transaction which might debit an account. Rather, Id expect it to 
intervene only where there are reasonable grounds for believing that the account was being 
misused or Mrs H was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Having reviewed Mrs Hs previous account activity, the fraudulent payment appears to be 
unremarkable. Although it was the largest payment to have taken place in the six months 
before the scam, there were a significant number of payments of at least £1,000 during that 
period, the account was generally busy with lots of activity and after the payment took place 
there was still a significant available balance (albeit an overdraft) on the account. So, while I 
accept the payment did go to a payee that Mrs H hadnt paid before, considering Mrs Hs 
previous account history, I cant fairly say that it stood out as being sufficiently remarkable 
that it indicated that Mrs H was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
In relation to the recovery of the funds, the bank which received Mrs Hs money has 
confirmed that it was removed before the scam was reported. Consequently, there was no 
possible action by Bank of Scotland that could have led to the funds being recovered. Im 
also unable to consider the actions of the receiving bank as part of this complaint  such 
matters would need to be addressed by that bank. 
Finally, I note Mrs Hs comments about the service Bank of Scotland provided. Ive reviewed 
her comments carefully but I think the £100 Bank of Scotland has already paid fairly compensates her for this. I note there were some delays in the bank responding to Mrs H but 
I think the chief cause of her distress are the actions of the fraudster and the banks decision 
(and subsequent unwillingness to reconsider that decision), neither of which Im able to 
make an additional award for.
While Im sympathetic towards Mrs H, I dont find Bank of Scotland is liable to refund her for 
the money she lost through this scam. So I dont think Bank of Scotland has acted unfairly 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman