DRN-2937853
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim
on its business interruption insurance policy.
Mr C, a director of M, has brought the complaint to us on Ms behalf. M is also supported by
a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to M throughout.
What happened
M held business interruption insurance with AXA. It took out the policy in 2013 and the policy
renewed each year. M claimed on its policy after its business was affected by Covid-19 and
the Governments subsequent response to the national pandemic.
AXA turned down Ms claim. They said most sections of the policy didnt provide cover
because they required damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt damaged property. They
didnt think the clause for denial of access (non-damage) provided cover because the clause
excluded cover where the denial of access to the premises was as a result of notifiable
diseases. AXA said that while the clause for disease provided cover for some diseases,
Covid-19 wasnt on the list set out in the policy.
M was unhappy with AXAs response and complained. It didnt think that the exclusion for
notifiable diseases should apply to the non-damage denial of access clause. M said the way
the policy was constructed meant the exclusion related only to part a) of the clause and not
to part b) which it thought provided cover. However, it said that if the exclusion did apply
to part a), then the definition of notifiable diseases should be the same as under the clause
for disease  which would mean Covid-19 wasnt excluded because Covid-19 didnt form
part of AXAs definition of a notifiable disease.
As AXA believed they had been correct in turning down Ms claim, M brought its complaint to
us. M made a number of detailed points to explain why it thought AXA should pay its claim.
This included that the policy was ambiguous; the exclusion for notifiable diseases shouldnt
apply as it referred to the closed list set out in the policy; and the claim should be covered
under the unspecified customers extension clause.
When sending our service their response, AXA said they had considered Ms claim under
both the original policy that applied (policy dated 2006), as well as a later version of the
policy. They said M had the benefit of both policies but neither provided cover for its claim.
Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt
think either of the policies provided cover in the circumstances of its claim.
M didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It provided
a detailed response and asked that only the wording of the 2006 policy be considered by our
service. Under this policy, it believes that: there is no requirement for there to have been
physical damage for the business interruption policy to provide cover or, if there is, the policy
is unclear on this; it had provided evidence from the police and local authority to
show its business had closed due to a danger at their premises; the policy should be
interpreted as it would be by a reasonable person.
AXA agreed to our service only considering the wording of the 2006 policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 July 2021 where I explained why I 
didnt think AXA needed to do anything differently. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M has made a lot of very detailed points about the wording of its policy and why it believes
AXA should pay its claim. While Id like to reassure M that Ive considered all of the points it
has made, Im not going to respond to each one and will instead focus on what I consider to
be the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on
Ms business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ms claim.
As requested by M and agreed by AXA, Im going to focus on the wording of the policy dated
2006, rather than any later versions. In doing this, it is also necessary for me to consider the
wording on Ms Policy Schedule that was in place at the time of the claim. I have commented
on the most relevant sections below.
Damage
The business interruption section of Ms policy has a section titled basis of loss. This sets
out how losses will be calculated in consequence of the Incident. Incident is defined in this
section of the policy as:
Loss or destruction of or damage to property used by the Insured at the
Premises for the purpose of the Business
or
Loss destruction of or damage to the Insureds books of account or other
business books or records at the Premises in respect of any item on Accounts
Receivable
A few pages later, under indemnity clause A, the policy says:
The Company agrees that if any building or other property used by the Insured 
at the Premises for the purpose of the Business be lost destroyed or damaged by
any of the Perils detailed overleaf which are shown as in force in the Schedule
and in consequence the Business carried on by the Insured at the Premises be
interrupted or interfered with then the Company will pay to the Insured in respect
of each item in the Schedule the amount of loss resulting from such interruption
or interference provided that
1. at the time of the happening of the loss destruction or damage there shall be
in force an insurance covering the interest of the Insured in the property at
the Premises against such loss destruction or damage and that
i) payments shall have been made or liability admitted thereforor
ii) payment would have been made or liability admitted therefor but for the
operation of a proviso in such insurance excluding liability for losses below a
specified amount
M doesnt think that indemnity clause A is relevant to its claim because it would require
damage as a result of a Peril specified on the schedule, and it doesnt think its schedule
specifies any perils. I think the all risks cover specified under material damage also relates
to this section, rather than requiring additional perils to be listed under the business
interruption section; however, even if thats not the case, I still think the losses needed to
be as a result of the loss, destruction or damage to property and I havent seen anything to
indicate that Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to Ms property. So, I dont think
this clause provides cover for the circumstances of Ms claim.
Prevention of access clause
The cover provided by the business interruption section is extended by clauses within the
policy and by endorsements on the schedule. The relevant part of this clause says:
Subject to the conditions of this Section loss resulting from interruption of or
interference with the Business in consequence of loss destruction of or damage
to property in the vicinity of the Premises loss or destruction of or damage to
which shall prevent or hinder the use of the Premises or access thereto whether
the Premises or property of the Insured therein shall be damaged or not
For this clause to provide cover, there would need to be loss, destruction or damage to
property in the vicinity of Ms premises which prevented or hindered access to Ms premises.
As I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to
property in Ms vicinity which prevented or hindered access to Ms premises, I dont think this
clause provides cover for its claim.
Denial of access (non-damage) clause
The denial of access (non-damage) clause is an endorsement on the schedule, the relevant
part of which says:
Any loss as insured by the undernoted item(s) of this Section resulting from
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of loss destruction
or damage at the undernoted situations or to the property as undernoted shall be
deemed an Incident provided that after the application of all other terms and
         conditions and provisions of the Policy the liability under this memorandum in
respect of any one occurrence shall not exceed

The Contingencies
Access to the Premises being restricted or hindered for a period of more than 12
hours arising directly from:-
a. the actions taken by the Police or any other statutory body in response to a 
danger or disturbance at the Premises or in the vicinity of the Premises
b. the unlawful occupation of the Premises by Third Parties excluding access to 
the Premises being restricted or hindered for a period of more than 12 hours 
arising directly from:-

excluding access to the Premises being restricted or hindered in consequence
of:-(iv) notifiable diseases
There is dispute between M and AXA about whether the exclusion for notifiable diseases
applies. However, I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding on that because I
dont think the clause provides cover for the claim, even without the exclusion.
I say that because similar terms were considered by the High Court in the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed.
Paragraphs 436 to 437 of the judgment says:
the government action in imposing the Regulations in response to the national
pandemic cannot be said to be following a danger in the vicinity, in the sense of 
in the neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
Even if there were a total closure of insured premises pursuant to the
Regulations, there could only be cover if the insured could demonstrate that it
was the risk of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the neighbourhood, of
the insured premises, as opposed to in the country as a whole, which led to
the action of the government in imposing the Regulations. It is highly unlikely that
that could be demonstrated in any particular case.
The clause requires the action taken by the police or statutory authority to be in response to
a danger or disturbance either at Ms premises or in the vicinity. The court decided that such
policy wording provided narrow, localised cover and that the Government response to the
national pandemic could not be said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity of each
insured premises.
M has pointed out that case law changes, and what is considered the correct case law at
one time, might not necessarily continue to be. However, Im required to take account of the
law when reaching my decision and Im not persuaded to depart from the findings set out in
the judgment. I dont think that the Governments response to the national pandemic, which
caused Ms closure, was in response to a danger or disturbance at Ms premises or in the
vicinity of their premises.
M has supplied statements from both the council and local police to support its position that
the closure was due to a danger at its premises. While these statements say there is a
danger at Ms premises, due to the danger of groups mixing, they dont persuade me that
the restrictions put in place by the Government were specifically as a result of the danger
posed at Ms premises or in its vicinity. I can also see the emails from the police and council
are in response to an email from M which says M would like to provide a response to
customers who are arguing that there is no danger to me operating groups. I dont think
this is the same as the police and council saying that the closure was due to a specific
danger at Ms premises.
Unspecified customers extension clause
The relevant part of the unspecified customers extension, which is an endorsement on Ms
schedule says:
Any loss as insured by the undernoted item(s) of this Section resulting from
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of loss destruction
or damage at the undernoted situations or to the property as undernoted shall be
deemed an Incident provided that after the application of all other terms and
conditions and provisions of the Policy the liability under this memorandum in
respect of any one occurrence shall not exceedThe premises of any of the Insureds customers
I dont think the policy is drafted in a very helpful way, as the word loss seems to be used in
different contexts and some of the other words appear to be unnecessary. However, when
considering the whole wording of the clause, I think its most likely a court would decide this
doesnt provide cover for Ms claim.
The clause requires the loss destruction or damage to be at the undernoted situations or
to the property as undernoted. I think the use of the word premises in the undernoted text
indicates that this is to be interpreted as a property. In an insurance context, the wording
loss, destruction or damage is generally accepted to mean a physical loss. However, I
recognise that using the same phrase in other clauses which cant require a physical loss is
unhelpful in this case. It would seem an improbably wide provision of cover for AXA to be
covering any losses stemming from the financial losses of a policyholders customer and I
think the reference to premises is enough to show that this clause requires the loss,
destruction or damage to property, which in this case is the premises of Ms customers.
As I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused a loss, destruction or damage to
the premises of Ms customers, I dont think this clause provides cover for Ms claim.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I dont think I can fairly
require AXA to pay Ms claim.
Neither AXA nor M responded to my provisional decision by the required date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither AXA nor M responded by the required date, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman