DRN-1140362
 
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that when she logs into her National Westminster Bank Plc online banking 
she can see her personal mortgage as well as a charity account that shes a signatory of. 
Shes also unhappy that NatWest didnt call her back, and she was on hold for 20 minutes.
What happened
On 19 August 2019 Ms R contacted NatWest because when shed logged in to look at the 
charitys bank account she found her personal mortgage was also showing. She said she 
wanted them de-linked. The call handler said shed raise it as a complaint and Ms R would 
receive a call back at 11.15 the following day.
Ms R phoned NatWest just before midday the following day to chase up the call back. 
However, instead of calling her back, a member of the complaints team had looked into 
matters and emailed Ms R a response to her complaint. NatWest explained the accounts 
only both showed when Ms R logged in and that couldnt be changed.
Our investigator acknowledged Ms R was frustrated with NatWest, but explained we couldnt 
tell it to change its processes. As Ms R didnt agree its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ms R made detailed submissions in 
support of her complaint. Ive taken note of everything shes said, but I wont be responding 
to each and every point, or in as much detail. 
No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role in it. It also reflects that I cant consider anything relating to the charitys account as this 
complaint has been brought by Ms R as an individual. If Ms R wants to complain about 
anything relating to the charitys account  such as the opening of the account, for example - 
then that would need to be a new complaint made to NatWest by the authorised signatories 
of the account.
Were not the regulator and its not in my remit to tell NatWest how it should provide its 
online banking facilities. NatWest has said if Ms R logs in then itll show both the charitys 
account and her personal mortgage, and it cant change that. The accounts arent actually 
linked, so if someone else logged into the charitys account using their online banking 
information then Ms Rs mortgage wouldnt show. Its only Ms R that can see both. I cant 
order NatWest to do something it says it cant do; so I cant order it to only show one or other 
account when Ms R logs in. 
On the phone call with NatWest Ms R said she thought it had breached GDPR. I dont 
underestimate how strongly Mrs R feels about the situation, and if she remains concerned about a possible GDPR breach, I can only suggest she considers taking it up with the 
Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk/for-the-public/).
NatWest should have called Ms R back when it said it would, and she was kept on hold for a 
while when she phoned them. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business 
makes a mistake, mistakes do happen. Anyone making a complaint needs to expect that will 
take up some of their time and cause them some inconvenience. As I said, were not the 
regulator; weve no power to fine or punish businesses. Having considered everything - and 
bearing in mind I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in telling Ms R it cant do what she 
wants - Im satisfied no compensation is due for those two issues.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman