DRN-2519042
The complaint
Mr M and Miss O complain that Solvendo Limited (Bell and Company) failed to comply with 
the terms of the debt counselling agreement it made with them for the provision of 
assistance and advice in trying to settle an outstanding debt. They want a refund of charges 
and compensation.
What happened
Although this complaint is brought in joint names, for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Mr M 
as hes been the main correspondent.
Mr M tells that in late 2017 he sought the assistance of Bell and Company in trying to settle a 
debt in relation to a loan that had been taken out in 2006 with a business Ill refer to as S.  
He says the loan was secured by a charge on their property. He states that hed paid back 
far more that he borrowed and felt the remaining balance was unfair. Mr M says that Bell 
misled him into believing it could help him reduce or remove this debt. But instead he says 
its charged him £2,000 and the debt has increased by £10,000. In addition, he says he 
incurred legal costs in relation to possession proceedings brought against him.
Bell told us it hadnt breached the terms of the agreement. And had made numerous 
representations to S on behalf of Mr M. It said it had never offered any guarantees of a 
successful outcome.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Bell 
hadnt offered any promise of success. And that the increased debt and charges appeared to 
be the result of Mr M failing to make contractual repayments. Our investigator said hed not 
seen any information to show that Bell had advised Mr M to stop contractual payments. Or 
had advised that it would be able to deal with the charges which resulted.
Mr M didnt accept this outcome. He felt the investigators view wasnt impartial. As its not 
been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M and Miss O feel strongly about the situation in which they found 
themselves. I accept that the threat of losing their home would be a source of considerable 
distress. And I understand that they would feel let down that Bell didnt obtain a better 
outcome for them.
Mr Ms complaint is that Bell misled him as to the nature of what it could achieve in trying to 
negotiate the reduction or settling of the debt.  He alleges that he was told that he wouldnt 
incur any further expense on the loan and didnt need to make payments. As a result of what 
he claims is a breach of the duty of care by Bell, he states that he ended up with an 
increased debt and a repossession order against his property.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I should acknowledge at the outset that there is a significant difference between what Mr M 
alleges he was advised in telephone conversations with Bell and the content of the various 
letters and emails with which Ive been provided. Bell advised our investigator that it didnt 
have the relevant recordings any longer, but it did supply notes of contact.
Without the phone recordings, I cant say precisely what was or wasnt promised to Mr M or 
what verbal advice he received. Im not doubting that he believed he was being assured he 
wouldnt have to repay the debt. But its often the way that parties to the same conversation 
have very different recollections of what was said. And the notes which the call handlers 
have made dont show that Mr M was advised to cease payments or that he was given any 
assurances about the consequences of not making payments.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive been supplied with a copy of the regulated financial agreement which dates back to 
2006. On the first (signature) page of the agreement there is a list of charges that apply if 
payments arent made on time. Ive also seen a copy of a letter dated 25 October 2017 sent 
by S to Mr M and Miss O. This indicates an arrangement to suspend payments but also 
states that arrears and interest will accrue. A further letter from the same date indicates that 
Mr M intends to give authority for S to provide details of the loan to Bell and Company.
The combined effect of these documents leads me to conclude that Mr M and Miss O knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, that a failure to make payments would result in 
increased interest and charges. Theyd also been referred to the existence of free services 
provided by certain charitable and voluntary organisations if they needed assistance with 
any financial difficulties.
The other more general point is that Mr M was aware of the terms of S loan. So he ought to 
have realised that only the creditor could agree to alter the terms of the loan or suspend or 
waive the debt. 
On a balance of probabilities, I find that Bell didnt advise Mr M to cease making contractual 
payments to S. It follows that I dont think it did anything wrong in not warning him of the 
consequence of not making these payments when (as I find) it hadnt told him to stop making 
them.
The written communications between Mr M and Bell which Ive seen, also lead me to 
conclude that from the outset of the agreement Bell made clear the strategy it would adopt. 
And the arguments it would use in trying to achieve a favourable outcome for Mr M. But 
these show that it offered no promise or guarantee of success. There were numerous suggested offers of settlement made by Bell to S. But all were rejected. This included an 
offer made on 4 October 2019 at a time it seems possession proceedings had commenced.
I dont think it was wrong for Bell to continue to send offers of settlement even when court 
proceedings had been commenced. Parties are encouraged to continuously try and 
negotiate settlements. And in reality, it is often the issuing of court proceedings that is the 
catalyst for a pre-hearing settlement. It seems Bell was simply trying to pursue the approach 
which it had adopted from the outset. And I cant fairly criticise it for that.
In summary, I find that Bell provided the service for which it had been engaged. Ive seen 
nothing that persuades me that the advice given or the steps taken were inappropriate in the 
circumstances.
Im aware that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M and Miss O but Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman