DRN-4314757
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr A acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
The cash price of the car was £32,338. Mr A made an advanced payment of £6,451, so the 
total amount financed on the agreement was £25,887 payable over 48 months. 
Mr A said that around March 2022 he started experiencing issues with the adaptive cruise 
control, where it would brake without warning. Mr A said hes brought the car in to VWFS for 
system updates on a few occasions but said it didnt fix the problem.
VWFS confirmed that Mr A complained to them in March 2023 and requested a partial 
refund for the extra he paid for the adaptive cruise control. 
In May 2023 Mr A brought his complaint to our service for investigation. In his complaint 
form, Mr A said he wanted the car to be fixed or to have a replacement car with no related 
issues. VWFS hadnt yet issued a final response to his complaint, however in June 2023 
they told one of our investigators they believed it may be the conditions of a particular stretch 
of road causing the issues. They also didnt know if Mr A had booked his car in for a second 
opinion but was willing to consider an independent inspection if necessary.
Mr A told the investigator that hed brought the car to a garage who told him that the car 
could be misreading road signs or that there could be interference from over head power 
lines causing the issues.
Having considered all the information on file the investigator recommended that Mr As 
complaint should not be upheld. The investigator concluded that the adaptive cruise control 
was functioning as it should and wasnt persuaded that a fault existed. 
VWFS accepted the investigators view. Mr A didnt. He said there was no explanation as to 
why the car was changing its target cruise speed at certain locations. However, as the 
investigators view remained unchanged Mr A asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mr As complaint about 
VWFS. VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement, and is 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
Here, the car was acquired new, with a cash price of around £32,338. So, I think its fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a second 
hand, more road-worn car and that it could be used  free from defects  for a considerable 
period of time.
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault with the car. This is apparent 
from the commentary from the garage workshop in April 2022 which confirmed there was an 
electric drive error; the commentary also confirmed this was repaired. So, Im not persuaded 
the fault with this persists. In addition, Mr A confirmed his complaint didnt relate to any 
warning notifications as those had been resolved.
However, in relation to a fault with the adaptive cruise control, Ive seen no evidence that a 
fault with it exists. The garage commentary advised of what Mr A reported, but it doesnt 
specifically confirm that the system was faulty. 
Mr A provided some video evidence which shows the car decreasing speed by a few miles 
per hour at a specific location. However, the reduction is gradual and not what I would 
consider to be a harsh action.
Although Mr A said the cruise speed amends itself, I havent seen any evidence of this in the 
videos, however even with that being the case I dont think that alone confirms that a fault 
exists. For example, Im aware that VW adaptive cruise control can automatically reduce the 
cars speed if necessary.
In their business file submission VWFS advised they considered the issue could be related 
to the condition of a specific stretch of road. Having considered all the information provided 
and looked into how adaptive cruise control works, I dont think VWFS comments here are 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
I recognise Mr As strength of feeling that an issue exists with the adaptive cruise control that 
can only be diagnosed through a road test at specific locations, I also recognise Mr A reported his concerns about this within the first six months of acquiring the car, which isnt 
necessarily a significant duration of Mr As ownership of the car. However, without the 
evidence, for example in the form of an independent inspection report or expert diagnosis 
confirming the issue exists and that it was present when the car was supplied, Im not 
persuaded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr A acquired it.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require VWFS to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman