DRN-2815891
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1999 to support a 
mortgage.   
What happened
Mr S complained to this service. He said he was told he had to have PPI in order to secure 
the mortgage. He said at the time, he was having difficulty getting a mortgage due to his 
employment, so Santander insisted he had to buy the PPI. The policy only covered him if he 
became unemployed. He concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like he was 
offered an optional policy; it was suitable for his needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer, but Mr S probably would have 
bought the PPI anyway.
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
He repeated that he was told he had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Santander made Mr S aware the policy was optional. He said he 
was not told it was optional; he was not given the choice to refuse it and he didnt know he 
could cancel it. But I looked at the separate PPI application form from 1992. As it was a 
separate form, I can reasonably assume he didnt have to complete it at all and so could 
have declined PPI by leaving it blank. I also saw Mr S had signed the form and I think this 
was enough for him to consent to have PPI added to his mortgage account. 
I also noted the policy only covered Mr S for unemployment. So I think he probably was 
aware the policy was optional as he was able to tailor the policy to his needs and so he 
probably knew he didnt have to have any other cover, for example, accident and sickness 
cover. 
I appreciate Mr S says he felt he had to buy the PPI  but there isnt enough evidence on the 
paperwork from the sale to suggest the PPI was shown as a compulsory product.  
Santander said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for Mr 
Ss needs. In this case, I think it probably was suitable for him because Mr S was eligible for 
the PPI policy, it seems the policy was affordable for him and, he wasnt affected by the 
things the policies didnt cover (the exclusions).
For 1999, Mr S said he was in employment and could get statutory sick pay from his 
employer. However, having decided he wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mr S 
thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to him in addition to Mr Ss employee benefits. 
I also think the PPI could have paid out for longer than his employee benefits at a time when 
he might have needed it most. So I dont think his employee benefits made the policy 
unsuitable for him.
I also looked at whether Santander gave Mr S enough clear information about the policy. In 
respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set out the cost of the 
PPI  this is a potential shortcoming in the sale. But having said that, I dont know how the 
cost and benefits were actually explained to him in the meeting. So as Ive decided he chose 
to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for him, I dont think that having more 
detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put him off from taking out the 
policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions were brought to Mr Ss attention. But as he wasnt affected 
by the main exclusions, I dont think he would have decided not to buy PPI even if hed been 
given a full list of the exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think he was aware PPI was optional and he consented to 
buy it. I think it that it was suitable for his circumstances and that he most likely had enough 
clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman