DRN-2670694
The complaint
Mr B complains AXA PPP Healthcare Limited delayed sending him an agreed refund 
payment.   
What happened
Mr B held a private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP. However he decided he no 
longer had a need for the policy, and asked AXA PPP to cancel it. 
In April 2020, AXA PPP agreed to provide Mr B with a partial refund of his policy premium. 
And Mr B said he was advised he would receive the refund by 1 May. 
AXA PPP initially advised Mr B on 30 April 2020, that it would take 10  15 working days for 
him to receive the refund payment. However, Mr B said he thought that was an unacceptable 
delay, so AXA PPP said it would prioritise sending the payment. AXA PPP said the payment 
was sent on 1 May and Mr B should have received it by the end of the following week. And it 
provided a screenshot from a payment system, showing the payment had been sent. 
On 11 June 2020, Mr B contacted AXA PPP again and said hed not received the payment. 
And he emailed again on 14 June, chasing for a response. AXA PPP responded on 15 June 
and said the payment had been sent on 1 May. It referred back to the payment system 
details it had previously sent and asked Mr B to check with his bank. It said the payment 
hadnt been returned to AXA PPP. 
Mr B brought a complaint about non-receipt of the refund payment to this service. And an 
investigator here started looking into what had happened in November 2020. 
In January 2021, after contacting its bank to request a payment trace, AXA PPP said it had 
been told the payment originally sent to Mr B in May 2020 had been returned. AXA PPP said 
the payment was returned due to an invalid account number, but it had used the correct 
account details supplied by Mr B when making the payment. It said itd not received advice 
from its bank that the payment had been returned. And although the returned funds had 
been in its bank account, it hadnt been aware this related to Mr Bs refund. It apologised for 
this and offered Mr B a payment of £100. 
After asking Mr B to confirm his correct account details, AXA PPP sent the refund payment 
again in mid-February 2021. Mr B received the payment, but said it was short by an amount 
under £10, which related to a bank charge. He said he thought AXA PPP ought to have 
borne the cost of any charges in making the payment. AXA PPP said it had instructed the 
payment with the charges indicator our which means charges should be passed back to 
AXA PPPs bank. However, it said if Mr B had still been charged a fee by his bank, that was 
beyond its control. 
Mr B rejected AXA PPPs offer of £100 in compensation for the delays in receiving the 
refund. He said he thought AXA PPP had acted deliberately to deprive him of the funds. He 
also said he had incurred international call costs due to having to contact AXA PPP about 
the missing payment. And he said he thought hed spent around three hours making these 
calls. 
The investigator issued his view on the complaint. In respect of the delay in Mr B receiving 
the refund, he said he thought AXA PPP had done something wrong. And to put things right, 
in addition to the £100 itd offered, he said AXA PPP should pay Mr B a further £100. Plus 
£100 towards the cost of telephone calls. And he said AXA PPP should pay Mr B interest at 
8% on the original refund amount which had been delayed. 
AXA PPP accepted the view and recommended compensation. However Mr B disagreed 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. In summary he said:
the original matter of whether or not AXA PPP should have agreed to refund Mr B 
some of his policy premiums was not something that he wanted investigated by this 
service;
the redress recommended by the investigator was unclear, the amount derisory, and 
compensation should be more in line with the time hed spent and his professional 
hourly rate; and
AXA PPP had acted deliberately to deprive him of his refund payment, and had only 
sent this due to the involvement of this service. 
And so the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
AXA PPP had provided this service screenshots from its payment system, showing that it 
had originally made a payment to Mr B in May 2020  and it had also provided the same 
evidence to Mr B previously. I asked AXA PPP to also provide evidence of the payment 
being rejected. It provided further screenshots from its system, showing the payment was 
returned, and that the reason given related to the account number being invalid. 
I shared this new evidence with Mr B and asked him for his comments. In summary he said:
the bank details he provided originally were correct and AXA PPP should have been 
able to make the payment successfully;
AXA PPP has not produced proper records of the transaction;
the payment evidence AXA PPP has provided for the original payment provides 
insufficient details to relate it to Mr B, and may have been mocked up;
the evidence AXA PPP provided of the rejected payment also provides insufficient 
evidence that this relates to Mr Bs payment, and may also have been fabricated; and 
he maintained that AXA PPP deliberately avoided sending the refund payment and 
has provided false information to this service.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note Mr B has said he doesnt want this service to look into anything that happened 
prior to AXA PPP agreeing to refund part of the policy premium. This was the subject of Mr 
Bs original complaint to AXA PPP, and was the focus of AXA PPPs final response to him. I 
appreciate since then things have moved on, and the issue of the delay in Mr B receiving the 
refund payment has arisen. From the correspondence Ive seen, it appears AXA PPP accepted we could consider this 
issue. In any case Im satisfied we can, because AXA PPP has been aware of Mr Bs 
disagreement with its decision on the delayed payment issue for more than eight weeks. So 
the focus of my decision will be on the events which have occurred after AXA PPP agreed to 
provide a refund in April 2020.
Mr B has made detailed submissions to us about his complaint. And I appreciate he would 
probably like me to deal with every numbered point hes raised. But were an informal 
alternative to the courts and this means Ive focused on the issues that I think are material in 
determining a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. No discourtesy is intended by 
this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
Delays 
Ive carefully considered all that Mr B has said about his belief that AXA PPP deliberately 
withheld his refund payment. The correspondence between AXA PPP and Mr B in 2020 
shows AXA PPP was willing to make the payment. And AXA PPP has provided screenshot 
evidence from its payment systems, showing that the original payment was sent, and later 
showing that it was returned due to an invalid account number. 
Mr B has listed the reasons that he believes mean that this evidence is not genuine, and Ive 
reviewed all of his points in relation to this. However, I dont think the reasons for the delay 
make a difference to the case Im required to decide. The issue here is that there was a 
lengthy delay in Mr B receiving his refund payment, and its for me to assess the impact that 
delay had.
Ive reviewed emails between Mr B and AXA PPP in mid-June 2020, which show he told the 
insurer hed not received the payment it said it sent in May 2020. In his last email, Mr B said 
he would not enter into any further correspondence with AXA PPP, and would contact this 
service if hed not received the refund payment in the following two days. And Ive been 
provided with a copy of an email AXA PPP sent in response, which said it had sent the 
payment, and asked Mr B to check with his bank, using a payment reference itd provided. 
Ive seen no evidence of Mr B contacting AXA PPP again after its last email to him, asking 
him to check with his bank. However, he contacted this service.
Mr B has said AXA PPP had no contact with him over a period of many months. The 
evidence Ive seen between April and mid-June 2020 shows AXA PPP regularly responding 
to emails from Mr B. Mr B didnt respond to AXA PPPs request in June 2020 by email. And 
as Ive explained below, Ive seen no evidence that he contacted AXA PPP after this time by 
phone. So I dont think it unreasonable that AXA PPP didnt continue to correspond with Mr 
B, as itd not had a response to its request for him to make enquiries with his bank. 
Ive seen evidence of AXA PPPs responses to Mr Bs other emails, and the action taken to 
trace the payment once this issue was raised again by this service. So based on this, I think 
its most likely that had Mr B responded to AXA PPP in June 2020, it would have continued 
to correspond with him. Because of this, I think Mr B could have mitigated some of the delay 
in receiving the payment, by responding to AXA PPPs request for him to make an enquiry with his bank. However, I dont think this prevented AXA PPP from continuing to make 
enquiries with its own bank. 
When our investigator contacted AXA PPP in November 2020, it said the payment it sent to 
Mr B had not been returned as unsuccessful. However, in January 2021, after further 
investigation with its bank, AXA PPP said Mr Bs payment had in fact already been returned. 
It said its bank had not previously notified it that it had returned the payment, and the reason 
given was ACT NUMBER INVALID. 
I think AXA PPP should have done more to identify the rejected payment sooner, and this 
caused unnecessary delays for Mr B. AXA PPP said the payment was returned without 
notification from its bank. But, I still think theres more investigation it could have done, and 
earlier.
Our investigator recommended AXA PPP should pay Mr B £200 in respect of the delays in 
him receiving the payment. And Ive not seen anything which makes me think the impact of 
the delay on Mr would justify a higher amount. If being without the refund amount had a 
greater impact on Mr B, I think he would have responded to AXA PPPs email in June 2020, 
and would most likely have continued to contact AXA PPP about the whereabouts of the 
payment. 
Im aware Mr B would like me to award a much greater amount of compensation. And I 
should explain that our role is not to punish businesses, so we do not make compensation 
awards to act as deterrents. 
Telephone calls 
Ive asked AXA PPP to provide me with records of the telephone calls it received from Mr B. 
However AXA PPP has said it has been unable to locate any calls, and would need more 
details of the specifics such as the dates and times. Im aware Mr B was previously asked for 
further details of his calls by our investigator. And he explained why obtaining this 
information would be very difficult. 
In his last email to AXA PPP in June 2020, Mr B said he wouldnt enter into further 
correspondence. So I think its less likely that the calls Mr B made were after this point, and 
were more likely to have been earlier in the course of events surrounding the payment. 
Our investigator recommended AXA PPP pay Mr B £100 in respect of the international calls 
he said he made chasing the payment. And AXA PPP accepted the recommendation. So 
AXA PPP should pay Mr B £100.
Bank charges 
When Mr B received the payment which was sent in 2021, it was short by an amount under 
£10, which related to a bank charge. AXA PPP explained it instructed the payment with the 
charges indicator our which means charges should be passed back to its own bank. And I 
can see from the payment evidence provided, that this was the case. AXA PPP has said any 
further amount Mr B has been charged will be a fee imposed by his bank. This would be 
beyond AXA PPPs control, so I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask it to cover 
this charge. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited to do the following: 
pay £200 in respect of the overall distress and inconvenience caused;
pay £100 towards the costs of phone calls; and 
pay interest at 8% simple on the original refund payment amount of $2,824.11 from the 
date it should have originally been received in May 2020 to the date Mr B received it. 
AXA PPP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman