DRN-1993800
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank PLC declined a direct debit payment. Hes 
also concerned about its handling of a security incident concerning his debit card. 
What happened
In response to Mr Ps complaint, NatWest maintained there wasnt enough money in his 
account on 3 June 2019 to cover the direct debit payment for £80. But it refunded the £8 
charge as a good will gesture. NatWest explained why it had been necessary for Mr P to 
attend a branch with photographic ID when he needed a replacement debit card but 
apologised that it hadnt explained the reasons for this to Mr P sooner. NatWest paid Mr P 
£40 by way of compensation. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Mr P said he did have enough money in his 
account to cover the £80 direct debit, as evidenced from his bank statement. And he was 
concerned NatWest hadnt explained the security incident with his debit card sooner which 
meant he had to go to a branch to provide photographic ID when the card needed to be 
replaced. He said if hed had more notice of this request, and the reason for it, he wouldnt 
have taken unpaid leave from work. Mr P was also concerned about charges and markers 
applied to his account. He wanted compensation for lost wages and an apology. 
Our investigator felt Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said Mr P didnt have enough 
clear funds in his account to meet the £80 direct debit. And that NatWest had acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions and had let Mr P know in advance that his account 
balance was low and needed clear funds in the account by 2pm to allow the direct debit to 
be paid. Our investigator also found NatWest couldnt be held responsible for Mr Ps lost 
wages. He felt NatWests explanation, apology and £40 compensation was enough. 
Mr P disagreed and has asked an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said NatWests 
terms and conditions dont say that funds must be available by 2.30pm for direct debits to be 
paid. He maintained that his bank statement showed there was enough money in his 
account and so the direct debit shouldve been paid. Mr P was also very concerned about 
the marker put on his account. He said NatWest shouldve told him about this at the time, 
and by not doing so it has breached his human rights and he feels totally violated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. I will deal with each of Mr Ps complaint points in turn.
Direct debit
Firstly, its a customers responsibility to make sure they have enough clear funds in their 
account to meet regular direct debit payments. Mr P had a direct debit of £80 due to leave 
his account on 3 June 2019. I can see from NatWests records that the opening balance that 
day was £267.01. And that there were four direct debits due to leave his account (including 
the £80) totalling £112.90. But there were also five payments pending on the account. Four 
debits totalling £190 and one credit of £50. 
Because Mr P didnt have enough clear funds to cover the pending debits and the 4 direct 
debits, NatWest sent him a text alert at 9.23am on 3 June 2019 to say he needed to pay 
cleared funds into his account by 2pm to allow items to be paid and to minimise fees. 
NatWest has said that when it checked Mr Ps account at 2.30pm, whilst there was enough 
money to cover the £190 debits and three direct debits, there wasnt enough money to cover 
the £80 direct debit, so it was returned unpaid. 
Mr P has referred to his bank statement from that time where his opening balance on 4 June 
is showing as £83.14. Based on this, Mr P believes there was enough money in his account 
to have met the £80 direct debit due on 3 June 2019. 
I should explain that a bank statement is a historical record of an account and the entries 
dont reflect the exact timings of the transactions. For example, NatWest has told me that 
credits always show before debits on a bank statement  regardless of when those 
transactions took place. From the bank statement I can see that the £190 came out of Mr Ps 
account on 3 June and the £50 went in. This resulted in a closing balance on 3 June 2019 of 
£94.11. A direct debit for £10.96 came out of Mr Ps account on 4 June 2019  which 
resulted in the balance of £83.14 which Mr P has referred to above. 
I can understand how Mr P believes his bank statement from 3 June 2019 shows he 
wouldve had enough money to pay the £80 direct debit. But there needed to be enough 
money at the point the direct debit was actioned  2.30pm  for the payment to be 
successful. 
This was all dependent on when the £50 credit went into Mr Ps account. The starting 
balance on 3 June 2019 (taking account of all the direct debits due to come out of his 
account that day) was £154.11. But £190 was going out of the account and £50 was going 
in. This meant that Mr P was left with a balance of £14.11 after all the direct debits  
including the £80 one, had been paid. 
But the issue here is the timing of when the pending credit transaction of £50 was 
processed. If the £50 credit was actioned after 2pm  then Mr P wouldnt have had enough 
money in his account to cover the £80 direct debit. Ive asked NatWest for some more 
information. 
Its told me that due to the processes in place for the specific merchant involved, it cant say 
the exact time the £50 hit Mr Ps account on 3 June 2019, and that it couldve been any time 
before 6pm. But given the direct debit failed, NatWest says this shows the £50 wasnt in Mr Ps account before the 2pm deadline. NatWest has provided me with evidence to show 
the transactions took place on 1 and 2 June 2019, and that they were pending on 3 June 
2019. And theres no evidence of any failings in NatWests systems on that day. So, taking 
everything into account, NatWests explanation here doesnt seem unreasonable to me. 
Mr P has also questioned where it says in the terms and conditions that direct debits are 
processed at 2.30pm. NatWest has provided me with information for its customers about 
text alerts and the time limits that apply. This information clearly states when a text will be 
sent and that funds will need to be in a customers account by 2pm prior to a system check 
at 2.30pm to see if enough funds are available. I can see Mr P was sent a text alert at 
9.23am on 3 June 2019 to tell him of the need to credit his account by 2pm. I appreciate that 
Mr P mightve thought he had enough money in his account, but it was still his responsibility 
to ensure that was the case. And the 2pm deadline given was in accordance with NatWests 
published procedures. 
So, taking everything into account, I cant see evidence that NatWest did anything wrong 
here. Given there was a £50 credit due to hit Mr Ps account on 3 June 2019, I can 
appreciate how its unfortunate that the timings of that transaction being processed and 
when direct debits are collected meant the £80 direct debit failed. But thats not NatWests 
fault. And because of that, and because they refunded Mr P the £8 failed direct debit charge 
as a good will gesture  I wont be asking NatWest to take any action.  
Security issue
NatWest has explained that Mr P had a Gone Away/Back to branch marker put on his 
account in 2017 because post was returned to them undelivered. This ensures nothing else 
is sent to what could be an incorrect address until the customer has updated their address. I 
cant see anything wrong with NatWests actions here. 
This marker on Mr Ps account also stopped a replacement debit card being automatically 
ordered and sent to the wrong address. Again, this is in line with standard procedures and is 
designed to protect against fraud. 
When Mr Ps debit card was due to expire in 2019 NatWest contacted him to explain a new 
card couldnt be issued until he had confirmed his address. He was given the option of using 
the telephone banking facility, or to visit a branch with photographic identification. 
Whilst NatWest accepts it couldve explained the reasons for the marker to Mr P sooner, I 
cant say its actions here were unreasonable. This was done to protect Mr P and the bank 
from fraud, and it provided Mr P with some notice of his need to contact the bank and 
options on how that could be done. I appreciate Mr P had to take time off work. But I dont 
agree that was NatWests fault. 
So, I wont be asking NatWest to pay Mr P compensation for loss of wages and Im satisfied 
the £40 and apology its already offered is enough in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman