DRN-4411634
The complaint
Mr B complains that Timmins Whittaker Ltd (TW) gave him unsuitable advice to switch a 
personal pension with one provider to a new personal pension and start making regular 
contributions.
Mr B complained via a claims management company (CMC). It said that Mr B may have 
suffered a loss as a result.
What happened
Mr B approached TW in 2004 for financial advice about pension planning. He had a personal 
pension that hed had since around 1992 that had been started with a single transfer from a 
defined benefit occupational pension scheme. He also had deferred defined benefits in 
another occupational pension scheme.
TW established that Mr B was employed and in a position to make regular pension 
contributions. He intended to retire in 2014. Mr B had made no contributions to his existing 
personal pension since 1992. 
TW recommended that Mr B start a personal pension making contributions of £300 a month. 
And that he also transfer the fund  valued around £85,000 at that time  from his existing 
personal pension to the new one. Mr B followed TWs recommendation. 
In 2011 Mr B took the benefits from his pension by purchasing an annuity. 
In 2021, Mr B responded to an advert from a CMC. As a result of contacting the CMC he 
was caused to consider that the advice hed received in 2004 may not have been suitable for 
him. And the CMC complained to TW on Mr Bs behalf.
TW considered what happened. It explained that it didnt think that Mr Bs complaint had 
been made in time. But also explained that it didnt think its advice had been unsuitable and 
thought that Mr B had been satisfied with the service hed received.
Mr Bs CMC referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened and was unable to resolve the complaint. And TW asked for the case to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
The cased was passed to me to consider whether it was something that was in our 
jurisdiction. And if so what I thought a fair and reasonable outcome should be. After 
considering all of the available evidence and arguments, I issued a provisional decision to 
allow both parties to understand what my likely decision was and offering them the 
opportunity to respond with any further evidence or comments.
In that provisional decision I explained why Id decided Mr Bs complaint was in our 
jurisdiction. And I gave a provisional finding to explain why I didnt think that the advice Mr B 
had been given was unsuitable.
I have acknowledgements from both parties that my provisional decision was received. 
Neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider prior to 
making this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this case a final time, my final decision is the same as the view I 
expressed in my provisional decision. Which means that I am not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. As I expressed before, I dont think that Mr B has any clear understanding about 
whether or not he has suffered a loss. So I hope that he will be reassured that his complaint 
has been independently considered, and by the reasons Ive given for deciding that he 
wasnt treated unfairly by TW.
I gave my decision on jurisdiction in my previous decision before giving my provisional 
finding on merits. But the question of jurisdiction remains open until a final decision is given. 
So I would reassure TW that I have fully considered jurisdiction and remain satisfied that 
Mr Bs complaint is not time-barred. I wont repeat the full rationale that both sides have 
already seen. But confirm that, what I referred to in my earlier decision as the three-year 
rule, gives our service the jurisdiction to consider the merits of this case. There was simply 
no clear indicator to Mr B that he may have been disadvantaged by the advised pension 
switch until he responded to communication from his CMC. And the complaint was made 
within three years of that.
Going on to consider the merits of this case. Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice in 2004. This includes the Principles for 
Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business (COB) rules. In particular COB 5.3.5R 
meant that TW had to take reasonable steps to ensure that its advice was suitable for Mr B. 
Where we are asked to consider events that happened so long ago, we are often faced with 
evidence that is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. For example, I wouldnt expect 
Mr B to be able to provide specific recollection of what he was told by his adviser. Or his 
adviser to recall precisely what was discussed unless there were notes of such meetings. 
Mr B has been unable to provide any documentary evidence, so all of the evidence I have 
has been provided by TW (or the CMC following a subject access request from TW). So 
I have to reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The first issue that the CMC raised related to there being no clear and obvious benefit to the 
pension switch. Ive considered this by looking at the objectives that TW agreed with Mr B in 
2004. Which I think were, most likely, to find a pension that he could start to make 
contributions into that would be invested in line with his attitude to risk. 
TW have explained that the pension that Mr B had since 1992 was sold directly by the 
adviser. It couldnt make any recommendation regarding it. And it doesnt have any evidence 
now that it considered whether it found out if Mr B could start making contributions into that 
plan that could well have been considered as paid up. 
TW say that it would have made Mr B aware that it couldnt give advice on that closed 
pension product as that provider was direct sales only. It says Mr B would have been told 
that he would have to speak with that provider if he wanted to start making contributions into 
that plan. I cant see that included in any recommendation letter. But, in fairness, I wouldnt expect that to be the case. I can see that TW held meetings with Mr B as part of the advice 
process. There are some notes, and whilst those notes dont record that specifically being 
discussed, TW werent required to record absolutely everything. Overall, I think it was more 
likely than not something that would have been covered at an early stage of the advice 
process.
Ive also considered whether Mr B was likely to want to incur the expense of financial advice 
when he already had a personal pension product in place. And I can see that Mr Bs pension 
was started with a single transfer of benefits Mr B held in a defined pension scheme. And 
that, shortly before he approached TW, compensation was paid into his pension plan as a 
result of The Pension Review. Meaning that Mr B would have known hed been the victim of 
a mis-sale in 1992 by the business that he had his personal pension with. Bearing this in 
mind, I dont think it would be unusual for Mr B not to want to continue with his existing 
pension and that he would be prepared to consider alternatives.
Meeting notes show us that TW considered Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) and agreed with him 
that he was more inclined towards risk than a cautious/balanced investor. It put him about 
6 or 7 on a scale of 1 to 10. 
In a letter to Mr B, dated 28 April 2004, TW went on to suggest an investment strategy in his 
personal pension that it told him was at the higher end of his attitude to risk, at 7 out of 10. It 
explained, this is at the top end of the risk profile you suggested you would be happy with, 
and can of course be adjusted accordingly by increasing or decreasing the equity content. 
And it went on in that letter to set out an alternative strategy that was a lower risk mix of 
assets. 
Ive considered these and think it was a fair way to approach Mr Bs attitude to investment 
risk for this pension. Assessing attitude to risk is not an exact science and should be 
something that is assessed and agreed with the customer. And here, Mr B appeared to be 
between either 6 or 7 out of 10. So it was reasonable to give him examples of both to allow 
him to decide. 
Ive considered whether or not Mr B had sufficient capacity for loss to make an investment 
choice in line with this attitude to risk. And I think he did. At that stage his intended 
retirement age was assumed to be 10 years off. Which was a long enough term to be 
invested over. He had another pension with defined benefits that he wasnt transferring. That 
provided him with guaranteed income in retirement likely to be equivalent to this pension. 
And he intended to continue making contributions over the next 10 years. So, overall, I think 
it was likely that investing in line with his agreed attitude to risk was suitable. 
TW has shown us the information, that it still retains, that was provided by Mr Bs ceding 
pension provider at the time. It appears that Mr Bs previous pension was invested in that 
providers Managed Pension Fund. It appears likely to have had the fund objective of 
providing long term capital growth from a broadly balanced portfolio. Whilst it is difficult to 
establish the details of that fund from 2004, it is still running. I can see that its exposure to 
overseas equities is lower than TW proposed for Mr B. With a slightly higher intended 
exposure to fixed interest investments. I think that, in 2004, it was likely that the fund 
adopted a similar approach. Which meant it offered a more balanced (or lower) risk 
investment option to the one that TW recommended.
However, given the ATR that was agreed with Mr B in 2004 (approaching 7 out of 10), Im 
not persuaded that Mr Bs previous pension was invested in a way that matched his ATR. It 
had been set up in 1992, and Mr B was in a different position by 2004. He only had 10 more 
years to try to actively grow his pension fund to support his defined benefit pension when he 
retired. I havent seen any statements from Mr Bs ceding scheme to indicate what fees it charged 
on his policy. The partial terms and conditions document that I do have is not clear. And the 
information that TW obtained and still have doesnt make it clear. But I can see that it 
checked that Mr B was not giving up any guarantees by switching. And that it ascertained 
that there was no exit penalty. So, based on the evidence available, I cant see that there 
were any specific reasons that made the switch unsuitable.
I looked at the transfer value from the ceding scheme and can see that the entire transferred 
value was invested in line with the recommended investment strategy. There was no 
deduction or fee on transfer. So the only difference on transfer was that the fund was then 
invested in a way that was, most likely, better suited to Mr Bs ATR than in his ceding 
scheme. Overall, I think that moving to a personal pension to invest in a way that matched 
his ATR at that time would have been a benefit to Mr B.
The second issue that Mr Bs CMC raised related to the investment choices that were 
recommended. And I have addressed that above where I have explained why I dont think 
the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr B.
The third issue that was raised was that the term for investment was too short. But I dont 
agree that is a fair or reasonable criticism. TW were advising based on the information that it 
had in 2004. Which, quite reasonably, led it to consider that Mr B intended to retire in 2014. 
The fact that Mr Bs circumstances changed and he instead took his benefits in 2011 didnt 
mean that the originally intended investment term wasnt appropriate for the investment 
strategy that TW recommended for Mr B.
Having considered everything in this case, I think its fair and reasonable to decide the 
recommendation Mr B was given was suitable for his likely objectives. It enabled him to 
contribute into a personal pension and for those contributions, and his existing personal 
pension pot to be invested in a way that it seems was, more likely than not, in line with his 
ATR. It meant that he was able to accumulate a pension fund that by 2011 he was 
sufficiently satisfied with to take his benefits from. And in the period since taking his annuity 
in 2011 he has seemingly had no cause to be dissatisfied. 
Im unable to say whether or not the recommendation that Mr B had gave him the very best 
outcome possible. Or even whether it ultimately ended up giving better benefits than hed 
have reached in the ceding scheme. But even if I knew that, Im not judging TWs 
recommendation with the benefit of hindsight. Instead I have looked at whether what it 
recommended was suitable. And, applying a fair and reasonable assessment of the 
evidence, I think it was. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman