DRN-2005581
The complaint
Mr O complains that he was mis-sold a packaged bank account by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons.
Although I dont doubt Mr Os honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that he did 
know hed opened his Plus account in July 2007, as the branding on his statement changed 
and the account fee appeared on it every month.
As Mr O had previously had a fee free account with HSBC, I think he knew that he had a 
choice and chose to open the Plus account.
As Mr O cant remember the opening of the Plus account and based on this services 
knowledge of HSBC practices at the time, I think its more likely than not this was a non-
advised sale. In other words, I dont think HSBC recommended the account to Mr O, so it 
only had to provide him with enough information about the account to make an informed 
decision.
And I think it did. I say because Mr O used the financial benefits multiple times. And I think 
the main insurance benefit was of interest to him as he says he regularly travelled abroad 
outside Europe at the time and his medical conditions would not have prevented him using it.
The branding and the benefits of the account changed in 2010 and 2014. HSBC has 
provided evidence that it sent the details of the changes to Mr O twice each time to the 
address it had on record. I think its more likely than not that Mr O got at least one of those 
letters each time and so was aware of the changes.
So, overall, I dont think I can reasonably say that HSBC did anything wrong on this account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman