DRN-2842273
The complaint
L a limited company complains that Santander UK Plcs mistakes meant L made a double 
payment to a third party. L is unhappy that Santander didnt recall the payment soon enough 
leaving it out of pocket.
L wants Santander to refund the outstanding balance on the payment made of around 
£4,650.
What happened
In July 2019, L made an online payment to a business that I will refer to as T. L says that 
the next day, it saw a text from Santander asking it to verify the transaction. When L tried to 
do this, the link had expired so it sent the payment to T again.
L says that Santander recommended that it approach T to recover the payment. L only 
received a partial repayment from T so complained to Santander. 
Santander didnt agree that it had made a mistake. It suggested that L speak to T to try and 
get the remainder of the money back. 
When L complained again, Santander said that it would attempt a recall but explained that 
this was unlikely to be successful as T had partially refunded the payment. Santander did 
however agree that it shouldve attempted the recall when L complained in mid-August 2019. 
For this failure, Santander offered L £75 compensation. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Ls complaint be upheld. She said that Santander 
had given this service evidence to show that it sent L a text message on 1 July 2019 to verify 
the payment. And that it received a reply the same evening. The investigator was satisfied 
that the first payment went through.
The investigator thought that once L made Santander aware of the mistake, it shouldve tried 
to recall the payment. This didnt happen but when the investigator checked Ts bank 
account, she saw there wouldve been insufficient funds to complete the recall.
L is unhappy with the investigators recommendation, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Im very sorry to learn of what has happened to L. I can appreciate the frustration that it must 
feel at not being able to get back all the money from T. But my role is to consider what, if 
anything, Santander has done wrong. And to decide whether Santander should put things 
right for L.
L says that it didnt assume the payment hadnt gone through the first time. L says 
Santanders text said the transaction had expired so shouldnt have gone through as it was 
never authorised. I dont have the benefit of seeing the contents of the text messages to 
consider this in more detail. But according to Santanders records, the first payment was 
successfully authorised on 1 July 2019. I appreciate that L made same payment the next 
day, but I cant find that this was due to a mistake that Santander made.
L says that once it realised the mistake it contacted Santander on 2 July and was told to 
approach T for a refund. Santander doesnt have any record of this contact and L cant give 
me further evidence that it took place. Ive had a look at Santanders complaint notes from 
the middle of August 2019 which dont mention the alleged contact on 2 July. L also 
acknowledged in an email to this service that it was late to report the problem to Santander. 
This makes it difficult for me to find that Santander missed an opportunity to recall the 
payment in early July 2019.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it looks as though the first time Santander was made 
aware of the problem was in mid-August 2019 when L complained. Like the investigator I 
agree that at this point Santander shouldve attempted to recall the payment. Unfortunately, 
this doesnt change my decision not to uphold Ls complaint and I will explain why.
If Santander had attempted the recall in mid-August 2019, T had insufficient funds in its 
account with which to refund the payment. Even if this wasnt the case, I consider it likely 
that Ts bank wouldve declined the recall request for the same reason that it gave in 
September 2019. This was because L had already received a partial refund so Ts bank said 
that L should deal directly with its customer.
Santander did raise a partial recall request in September 2019. As Ive said, Ts bank 
rejected the request because L had already received a partial refund. Santander was 
required to make reasonable efforts to recover the money and Im satisfied that it did this.
For all the reasons Ive outlined above, my decision is that although Santander shouldve 
attempted the recall in mid-August 2019, it wouldnt have made a difference. This means I 
dont require Santander to refund any money or take any further steps to resolve Ls 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman