DRN-3310282
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In summary, theres no dispute here that BMWFS has made a number of reporting errors 
regarding Mr Ps credit file. In July 2021 BMWFS wrote a final response letter to outline the 
outcome of the complaint. In this letter it explained the adverse information was removed 
originally as a goodwill gesture.
When Mr P spoke with  BMWFS again, it confirmed no adverse information should have 
been reported as the payment plan was still in place and payments were being made on 
time  this was rectified and checked again to ensure no adverse information was showing 
on his credit file. BMWFS has apologised for the inconvenience caused.
The dispute here is one of compensation and what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr P has provided information regarding the trouble and upset this matter has caused him. 
In her view, the investigator suggested £100 was fair and reasonable compensation and 
BMWFS agreed.
Mr P has argued that the time he had to take out of his employment to contact BMWFS was 
significant and the impact of not wanting to access any credit in case an application was 
rejected , due to the adverse marker placed on his file by BMWFS also impacted him. He 
feels £500 is a fairer reflection of the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and BMWFS.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Having done so, I can see Mr P didnt attempt to obtain further credit, so he has not been 
impacted financially by the information that was showing incorrectly on his credit file. I 
appreciate he specifically didnt apply for any in order to attempt to mitigate any further 
impact but as the investigator has already said, I cant consider something that
potentially might have happened.  As such, I find £100 is fair and reasonable compensation 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Pay Mr P £100 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 May 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman