DRN-1568289
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service provided by The Automobile Association Insurance 
Service Limited (the AA). 
In short, hes unhappy about the following:
In September 2018, the phone operative recorded an incorrect first name. 
The poor service received over a phone call in July 2019. 
The AA breached regulations by not holding a correct record of his first name since 
2011.  
 
What happened
The AA partially upheld the complaint, to ensure that feedback was given about improving its 
services but hasnt awarded any compensation.  
In respect of recording Mr Hs incorrect first name during the September 2018 call, it 
conceded that it was an error, but said that despite efforts by the phone operative to validate 
the information over a bad phone connection it wasnt corrected by Mr H. Nevertheless, it 
said it wasnt done deliberately to cause Mr H trouble and upset.  
The AA said Mr H was understandably upset upon receiving documentation with the 
incorrect spelling. It accepts that its phone operative (in July 2019) was unable to answer 
many of the questions posed by Mr H relating to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regulations but said I dont work for the FCA. 
Mr H was informed that since 2011, it didnt hold details of his first name. Although Mr H 
feels the call operative was sarcastic it doesnt believe the call was mishandled and 
therefore isnt upholding this element of the complaint. 
A call was promptly arranged with a manager  who couldnt provide any more substantive 
answers  and the call continued about pricing and it was confirmed that Mr H was only 
eligible for a discount for that year. 
The AA confirmed that it wasnt a regulatory requirement for a breakdown membership to 
hold a customers first name in full, although its operatives try and gather as much 
information as they can for completeness. 
Mr H was unhappy with the AAs response and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:In September 2018, Mr H called the AA because he hadnt received his renewal 
documents. 
During the call even though Mr H was asked for his first name, it was recorded 
incorrectly because the phoneline was so bad. 
The phone operative sought clarification, and spelled out the name back to Mr H, but 
Mr H didnt clarify the position probably because he couldnt hear the question 
properly himself. But that doesnt mean the business was at fault. 
In July 2019, Mr H called the AA upon receiving documentation with an incorrect first 
name. Despite being told it was changed in September 2018 and mustve been an 
error, he continued to ask several questions about regulatory requirements which the 
operative said she didnt know the answer to. 
Only after being pressed several times by Mr H, and in a moment of exasperation 
she said, I dont work for the FCA. She then promptly proceeded to arrange a call 
with her manager in response to Mr Hs request. 
Mr H discussed the price of his cover with the manager, who also arranged a 
discount, and logged a complaint about the incorrect first name.
The requirement to hold Mr Hs first name was a matter for the AA. Failure to do so in 
this case wasnt a failure to abide by FCA regulations. 
Mr H wanting to speak to a manager was to try and get a discount - which he did get. 
He didnt spend an unreasonable amount of time discussing the complaint and 
therefore isnt entitled to any compensation. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He had no new points to make. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, overall, Im unable to 
say that the AA has behaved unreasonably.   
In September 2018, Mr H called the AA because he hadnt received his renewal documents. 
During the call it came to light that the AA only had his first name initial, and not the full 
name. 
Despite efforts to try and capture the correct name and spelling the adviser was 
unsuccessful. I think its likely they misheard the information but, in my opinion, through no 
fault of their own. I note the phone connection was bad and when confirmation was sought 
from Mr H it wasnt given. I think its probably because Mr H  like the phone operative  also 
couldnt hear properly over the bad phoneline. But this doesnt mean that the operative is at 
fault. 
Understandably Mr H was unhappy when he received documentation with an incorrect first 
name. In July 2019, when he called the AA it was explained that this was done on the last 
occasion and it was likely the phone operative misheard the information. Mr H asked several questions and received the response that the operative didnt know the 
answers to these. In the circumstance I cant blame the operative for not knowing (off the top 
of their head) the answers to some technical questions relating to regulatory requirements. I 
note it was only in response to these questions that the operative replied that they didnt 
work for the FCA. In the circumstances Im not persuaded that this means Mr H is entitled to 
any compensation for something that was said as part of an ongoing conversation.  
I note that a call to the manager was promptly arranged in response to Mr Hs desire to 
speak to someone senior, and whilst Mr H wished to complain about this matter, he also 
dealt with the issue of pricing for his renewal quote. I understand that a discount was given 
to the extent that was possible and Mr Hs correct first name was recorded. In my opinion Mr 
Hs issues were dealt reasonably and promptly soon after they came to light. So, on balance 
Im unable to say that the AA is at fault for not recording Mr Hs correct first name, given it 
made reasonable efforts to get this right over a bad phoneline. Overall, Im satisfied that it 
dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly. 
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
But in the circumstances, Im not asking the AA to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman