DRN-3655461
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Interactive Investment Services Limited (IISL) 
references dividend credits on his bank statements. He says it is misleading.
What happened
Mr G holds a stocks and shares ISA account with IISL. Dividends from the sole underlying 
investment, an investment trust, are paid into Mr Gs bank account. Mr G says he cant 
identify the underlying investment from where the dividend originated and would like to be 
the investment named on his bank statements rather than it just showing as dividend. 
Mr G doesnt have a computer to check his IISL statements in order to identify the payment 
on-line. 
Mr G complained to IISL about this. In its response to Mr G IISL said:
Mr Gs account was set up so all dividend payments were payaway and that any 
payments would be referenced as dividend on all its clients bank accounts. It was 
not able to amend this automatic input. 
It explained that when making the credit to Mr Gs bank account it only stated the 
payment as dividend. But it also provided Mr Gs bank with a BACS reference which 
was a number followed by (DV) at the end which related to dividend. The number 
used was unique to the underlying investment  it was the SEDOL (Stock Exchange 
Daily Official List) number minus the final character. IISL said it was limited to the 
number of characters it could include in a payment reference so couldnt include     
Mr Gs account number or underlying investment name. 
It was sorry for the confusion or concern caused to Mr G but couldnt agree the 
information was misleading.
It said Mr G could look at the dividend information online. Or if Mr G wanted to, he 
could remove the payaway facility from his account and the dividends could be paid 
into his IISL account which he could then withdraw by phone or online.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with the outcome so brought his complaint to this service. The 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said:
This service wasnt the regulator so couldnt instruct a business to make widespread 
changes.
He appreciated IISLs system of using the SEDOL number and (DV) reference 
wasnt convenient for Mr G as he had to use a process of elimination to work out 
which investment had paid the dividend. But this was IISLs commercial decision.
As the SEDOL number was unique to the underlying fund, he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for IISL to use this method.
He understood Mr Gs comment that his accounts with other businesses would report 
payments differently. But each business was entitled to make their own commercial 
decisions. 
IISL had said Mr G could call or log in online to identify the investment paying the 
dividend. As Mr G didnt own a computer he could arrange for paper statements to be 
sent to him instead  he would need to contact IISL to make that change. The 
investigator had seen the IISL paper statements and included a sample in his letter to 
Mr G. He was satisfied the payment description was clear as to which investment 
paid the dividend, the amount, and the date. 
While he accepted this wasnt the resolution Mr G wanted, this service doesnt have 
the power to ask a business to change its process and that the alternative of 
receiving statements wasnt unreasonable.
In response to the investigator Mr G:
Provided a response from his bank about the entries which said it wasnt the bank 
that decided the reference when applying credits. It was the sender of the credit who 
chose the reference. 
He said the statements the investigator had copied into his opinion letter were not his 
own bank statements but those provided by IISL.
Mr G maintained that the reference of dividend was misleading. 
Mr Gs comments didnt cause the investigator to change his mind. As the complaint remains 
unresolved it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should first clarify that this service doesnt regulate financial services businesses  thats 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we cant make IISL, for example, 
change their operating processes  thats for the FCA to decide. Its a business decision for 
a business to decide how its investment platforms should work. Instead my role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
However, it would be expected for a business to want to provide a useful and accurate 
facility for its customers.
Is the information IISL providing about the dividend payment reasonable?
IISL has explained the information that it passes on to a recipient bank under its payaway 
facility when making dividend payments via BACS. And that information uses a unique 
reference number (the SEDOL number) for the underlying investment that has made the 
dividend payment followed by DV to identify it as being a dividend payment. 
Mr G has said the payments only appear as dividends on his bank statements. But IISL has 
explained it provides the recipient bank with a BACS reference which included the unique 
number. So, while I cant comment on how Mr Gs bank uses that reference, I cant conclude 
that IISL isnt providing information to Mr Gs bank in order for the dividend payment  and 
underlying investment from where the dividend originates  to be identified. Albeit not being 
displayed on Mr Gs bank statements as he would like with the investment name.
So, while I appreciate that Mr G disagrees with how the dividend payments are displayed on 
his bank statements, I am satisfied that IISL is providing that information correctly. And it isnt my role to direct IISL to make widespread changes to how it operates. I think it unlikely 
that IISL would knowingly provide a service that it thought was detrimental to its customers. 
It is a business decision for IISL to make and one which I would expect to be for the benefit 
and interest of its customers.
Are there reasonable alternatives available to Mr G?
In his response to the investigator Mr G said the statement sample that the investigator 
copied into his opinion letter was the statement provided by IISL of Mr Gs account. And that 
is correct, it wasnt a copy of Mr Gs bank statement. 
I think the point the investigator was trying to make was that IISL had given him copies of   
Mr Gs IISL paper statements of account which Mr G could request if he wanted to receive 
them on a quarterly basis. This was an alternative to Mr G having to phone IISL when he 
wanted to identify a dividend received or go online  which isnt an option for Mr G. If Mr G 
wanted to do this, he would need to contact IISL to arrange for paper statements to be sent 
to him.  
I appreciate how frustrated Mr G is by not being able to identify credits on his bank 
statements as he would like to. And particularly in light of the fact that he doesnt use a 
computer, which I would think the majority of IISLs customers do, as it is an on-line platform. 
But that doesnt mean Mr G should be disadvantaged or treated differently than other 
customers. But I dont think he is being treated differently, under IISLs payaway system all 
dividend payments sent to customer bank accounts would be identified in the same way so I 
cant conclude that Mr G is being treated unfairly.
And it might be that by requesting paper statements from IISL is the most pragmatic solution 
for Mr G, albeit not being the solution he was asking for. But this would allow him to identify 
payments made into his bank account. 
In conclusion, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. I dont think IISL is doing anything wrong in 
how it identifies and pays out dividends to customer bank accounts. No doubt Mr G will be 
disappointed with this outcome as it is not the solution he wants, but I hope I have been able 
to explain how I reached that decision and why. 
My final decision
Because of what I have said above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman