DRN-3679457
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he bought from a dealership, which Ill call B, was not of 
satisfactory quality. Because he paid for it using a credit card issued by Capital One 
(Europe) plc, he says that Capital One is responsible for the faults.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr F bought a used car. He paid the price of £1,500 using his Capital One 
credit card. The car was some 13 years old and had covered more than 86,000 miles when 
Mr F bought it.
Within a few weeks Mr F says he was having problems with the car. He had repairs carried 
out to the brakes, costing £215, and sought advice on over-heating. He paid a further £50 for 
that advice, which was that the cars thermostat might need replacing, at a further cost of 
£120. The mechanic also indicated that the cars head gasket might need replacing, and that 
would cost a further £500.
Mr F approached Capital One, which in turn contacted B. As a result, Capital One offered to 
reimburse Mr F for the repair costs and the report  a total of £265. Mr F responded to that 
offer to say that he accepted it but that, even though that was the case, he would still be 
referring the matter to the Financial Ombudsman.
Capital One paid Mr F £265. He referred the matter to this service, as he had said he would. 
Mr F then had repairs carried out to the thermostat, at a cost of £130, and to the head 
gasket, at a cost of £575.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator recommended that Capital One reimburse 
Mr F for the further repairs  to the thermostat and head gasket.
Capital One did not however accept the investigators recommendation. It said that Mr F had 
accepted the offer of £265 in full and final settlement of his claim and that it would not be fair 
for him to claim anything more. The investigator did not agree and so the complaint was 
passed to me for further consideration.
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision. In summary, I did not agree 
that Mr F had settled the complaint. I was not persuaded however that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. I set out below my reasoning:
Mr Fs contract with B was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if Mr F has a 
claim for breach of contract against B, he has a like claim against Capital One.
Capital One says that Mr F has agreed to settle the claim and that it would not be fair to 
uphold it, so that he receives more than he agreed to accept. It is true that Mr F said 
expressly that he accepted Capital Ones offer in full and final settlement, but he went on to 
say that he wanted to refer the matter to the ombudsman. There was, I think, a degree of 
ambiguity in that. I think it would have been sensible for Capital One to check that Mr F 
understood what was meant by full and final settlement and to have explained that it was 
inconsistent both to accept the offer and refer the case to this service.
There was in my view sufficient ambiguity in Mr Fs response to the offer that I cannot fairly 
say there was a settlement of the complaint.
I have therefore considered whether it would be fair for me to require Capital One to pay for 
the further repairs. In doing so, I have considered whether the need for the further repairs 
meant that the car was not of satisfactory quality.
In my view a reasonable person would probably have expected a car of this age, price and 
mileage to need some repairs  perhaps fairly soon after delivery. It was sold with only a 
limited warranty.
The car has not had an independent inspection and there has been no expert assessment of 
whether the repairs are likely to have been needed as a result of wear and tear. That is not a 
criticism of Mr F (who would have been in a better position than Capital One to arrange an 
inspection), as a full inspection would have cost a significant proportion of the price of the 
car.
I do note however that, when Capital One discussed the matter with B, it said that the 
thermostat was a wear and tear item which would not usually be covered for more than a 
month under a used car warranty.
As I have indicated, I think it was to be expected that the car would need some work. It was 
likely that some components would be worn to the extent that they might need replacing, 
possibly within a few months. And in my view, the components which Mr F had replaced  
the thermostat housing and head gasket  were items in this category. I do not believe the 
fact that they needed replacing within a few months meant that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. It follows therefore that I believe Capital Ones response to his section 
75 Claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr F said that he did not agree with my provisional decision. He did not however provide any 
further evidence or arguments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has provided anything further for me to consider following my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change the conclusions that I reached.  
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not require Capital One (Europe) plc to do anything more to resolve Mr Fs 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman