DRN-4432569
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a cryptocurrency scam. 
What happened
In early 2021, Mrs V was recommended a trading platform by someone from her church. 
She understood she would be making an investment whereby her trading platform would be 
credited monthly or daily, then she would be able to withdraw a lump sum after 18 months. 
She also says she was told she wouldnt lose any money. 
Mrs V says she looked up the platform and it had positive reviews. When she set up an 
account, she could access a portal which she believed was showing the active trading. She 
was also added to a WhatsApp group with other investors and the owners of the company  
who she thought seemed informative and professional. 
Persuaded the platform was legitimate, Mrs V made several payments from Santander to an 
account she set up with a cryptocurrency exchange. She then bought cryptocurrency and 
sent it on to the trading platform. 
In 2022, Mrs V started to hear rumours the platform might be a scam. She tried to withdraw 
her funds  and found she could not. Several people from her church fell victim to the scam, 
including the individual who made the recommendation. 
When Mrs V raised this issue with Santander, it wouldnt agree to refund her. It said she had 
willingly sent the payments to her own cryptocurrency account. Mrs V referred the matter on 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said Santander acted reasonably in 
processing Mrs Vs authorised payment requests; the case isnt covered by the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code as it doesnt apply to card 
payments; and the loss couldnt have been successfully recovered through the chargeback 
scheme.
Mrs V has appealed the investigators outcome. In summary, she says:
There should be a flexible approach to chargebacks rather than a strict time limit.
Banks need to safeguard customers even when payments are authorised and the 
CRM code doesnt apply. She disagrees the scam payments were similar to other 
payments she had made, as they had all been to reputable companies. Given banks 
knowledge of cryptocurrency scams, Santander should have contacted her as she 
had never paid the cryptocurrency exchange before.
The case has therefore been passed to me for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As Mrs V authorised the payments, the starting position under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 is that she is liable for them  as Santander has a duty to exercise her 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay.
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Santander to take 
additional steps before processing a payment. Such as when there are grounds to suspect 
the payment presented a fraud risk. That might occur when a payment is significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic compared to the normal use of the account.
I do appreciate Mrs Vs point that she hadnt paid the cryptocurrency merchant before. But I 
dont think that in itself made the fraud risk obvious. The merchant she paid directly was 
legitimate; the fraudulent loss was incurred when she sent the funds on from that merchant. 
However, she did overall pay a fairly significant amount to a new cryptocurrency payee over 
several payments.  Ive carefully considered whether Santander ought to have been 
concerned for that reason  as I agree it ought to have been aware of the risks of 
cryptocurrency scams. Overall, I dont think the account activity was so significantly unusual 
or worrying that Santander can be held at fault for not looking into the payments further.
This is because Mrs V did have a history of making payments for similar, and higher, 
amounts. And of making multiple payments to payees in quick succession. While I 
understand the distinction she has drawn between the scam payments and other spending 
on her account, the overall activity will have fed into Santanders view of what to expect from 
her account. In all the circumstances, I consider it reasonable that Santander simply 
processed her authorised payments. And so I dont think its at fault for not uncovering the 
scam at the time. 
I agree with our investigator that Santander didnt miss an opportunity to recover the funds 
either. I understand Mrs Vs frustrations about the limitations of the chargeback scheme. But 
the rules of the scheme are outside Santanders control. They are set by the card scheme 
provider. 
And regardless of the time limits, the scheme could only have considered a dispute against 
the merchant Mrs V paid directly  who were legitimate and provided the expected service 
by crediting the funds to her cryptocurrency wallet. Her dispute is about the platform she 
transferred the funds on to. And that falls outside the scope of the chargeback scheme. 
In saying all of this, Im conscious Mrs V has lost out to a cruel and sophisticated scam. But 
in the circumstances, Im not persuaded there are reasonable grounds to hold Santander 
liable for her loss stemming from these payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman