DRN-3188003
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of M, has complained about the decision of China Taiping Insurance (UK) 
Co Ltd to decline the claim made on Ms retail insurance policy following an interruption to 
Ms business in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
M operated as a public house and held a commercial insurance policy ultimately 
underwritten by China Taiping. In March 2020, following the Prime Ministers announcement 
and subsequent government legislation (the March Regulations) made to control the 
spread of COVID-19, M closed its premises. M contacted China Taiping to claim for the 
losses it suffered as a result of this closure.
China Taiping declined the claim. It said the basic business interruption cover provided 
under the policy did not respond because it required there to have been loss of, or physical 
damage to, relevant property. China Taiping referred to two extensions to this cover; the 
Disease extension and the Denial of Access extension. But explained that the first of these 
provided cover in relation to a specific list of diseases  which did not include COVID-19. 
And that the Denial of Access extension, as far as is relevant, required there to have been 
instructions, actions or advice given by the Police or other competent local authority. And 
that the Governments regulations were not instructions, actions or advice, nor was the 
Secretary of State for Health a local authority.
Mr B was unhappy with this and complained. He said he had been contacted by the police to 
ensure Ms premises were closed. And said that that restrictions were being implemented by 
a local authority.
China Taiping did not alter its stance however, saying Ms policy:
is structured to provide cover following an incident either at, or close to, the business 
premises and where the requirement, or advice to close the premises, is issued by a 
competent local authority, or police, to deal with a local incident.
Mr B remained unsatisfied and pursued Ms complaint via this service. 
The investigators view
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He felt that China Taiping had not 
acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ms claim. The investigator explained that:
The Prime Ministers announcement on 20 March 2020 for public houses to close 
and the March Regulations were instructions, actions, or advice. And that it was 
these that had led to the closure of Ms premises.
The term competent local authority was not defined within Ms policy. But the High 
Court had considered this term in the FCA test case The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test 
case). And said that, in the context of a similar policy underwritten by Ecclesiastical 
Insurance Office PLC, this meant: whichever authority is competent to impose the 
relevant restrictions in the locality on the use of the premises, including central 
government.
The term competent local authority was used in the Disease extension within Ms 
policy in relation to diseases that might be widespread and could require the action of 
central government to control them.
The term the Police or other competent local authority in the Terrorism extension of 
Ms policy was not, in the investigators opinion, limited to local bodies with local 
powers. This was because the police response to a terror threat would likely come 
from the Specialist Operations directorate and its Counter Terrorism Command 
branch, which has a national remit. And the investigator was not persuaded that this 
term should be considered any differently in relation to the Denial of Access 
extension, given the effect of the Terrorism extension is to remove an exclusion that 
might otherwise apply to this Denial of Access extension.
The fact that the focus of the three subclauses in the Denial of Access extension was 
localised, makes practical sense for any insurance term relating to prevention or 
hindrance of access. But this focus was on the impact of the insured perils, rather 
than the cause of those perils. And even if the cause of the perils in subclauses a 
and c needed to be a localised event, the investigator did not agree this meant 
subclause b only related to localised causes. The investigator considered that the 
wording of this subclause did not include this requirement.
Overall, the investigator was satisfied that M had been closed following the 
instruction of a competent local authority for a reason other than those removed from 
the cover provided by subclause b. And so, he felt China Taiping had not acted 
fairly and reasonably when declining Ms claim.
The investigator recommended China Taiping meet Ms claim, subject to the remaining 
terms of the policy. He also recommended that interest be paid on the amount of the 
settlement from 21 May 2020 up to the date of settlement. And that, in the absence of further 
evidence in relation to specific losses, this should be at a rate of 8% simple per annum.
China Taipings stance
China Taiping disagreed with the investigators view. 
During the course of this complaint, China Taiping has also engaged in a separate 
arbitration process which has, in part, considered the meaning of the subclauses in the 
Denial of Access extension. China Taiping has shared some of the submissions made to the 
arbitrator and the Award the arbitrator reached. And has asked that I take these into account 
when coming to my decision.
The arbitration process was agreed between China Taiping and some of its policyholders. 
The policyholders were hospitality businesses (restaurants, cafes, bars and pubs). As part of 
the agreement to go to arbitration, China Taiping agreed to pay the reasonable legal costs of 
the policyholders. The policyholders were therefore represented by a law firm, as well as a 
QC and junior barrister who specialised in insurance. The arbitrator was a retired Supreme 
Court Justice called Lord Mance. As the arbitrator, Lord Mance had a duty to act fairly and 
impartially, giving each party a reasonable opportunity of putting its case and dealing with 
that of its opponent.
The submissions to the arbitrator were detailed, though they largely expand on the 
arguments China Taiping has submitted to this service in relation to Ms complaint. So, although I have considered them all, I do not intend to repeat them all here. I have also seen 
and reviewed the detailed submissions made by the policyholders representatives.
The key arguments made on behalf of China Taiping are:
The cover provided by subclause b of the Denial of Access extension should be 
interpreted taking into account the cover provided by the Disease extension. And 
that, as this was the extension that provided cover in relation to diseases, no other 
clause in the policy should be interpreted to extend cover in relation to the impact of 
any disease.
All the subclauses in the Denial of Access extension should be interpreted in the 
same way and should all be read as confining cover to events in the vicinity of the 
Premises. And that this vicinity should have a narrow and local connotation, i.e. the 
relevant neighbourhood.
The UK Government is not, in any ordinary and natural use of the words in the 
context in which they appear in the Denial of Access extension, a competent local 
authority and does not fall within the expression the Police or other competent local 
authority. And so, any instructions that were issued were not issued by a body falling 
into the cover provided by subclause b of the Denial of Access extension.
The phrase competent local authority within Ms policy means a body within a local 
jurisdictional area which has competence to exercise specific powers in relation to a 
particular locality and/or in response to a relevant localised event. The inclusion of 
the word local in this phrase showed that the intention of the term did not extend to 
non-local authorities.
The findings in the FCA test case in relation to the phrase competent local authority 
only had a bearing on the policy being considered in that case (the Ecclesiastical 
policy). And Ms policy differed from the Ecclesiastical policy in that the disease 
clause in the Ecclesiastical policy related to an occurrence of disease within a 25-
mile radius of the policyholders premises, whereas the Disease extension in Ms 
policy relates to an occurrence at the Premises.
The use of competent local authority in the Terrorism extension in Ms policy also 
means something relating to the local jurisdiction or area, and an authority which has 
competence to act in that locality in response to an act of terrorism.
As such, there were not any instructions issued by a relevant body which required 
the closing down or sealing off of Ms premises.
Finally, China Taiping said that whilst it disagreed it was liable for Ms claim, if it was found to 
be, it did not consider it appropriate for interest to be added to the settlement from May 
2020. China Taiping felt that it was reasonable for it to wait until the outcome of the FCA test 
case before reaching a final decision.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
My provisional decision
On 25 October 2021, I issued my provisional decision. This explained that, based on the 
evidence I had seen, I was not minded to uphold the complaint. I explained my provisional 
decision as follows.
I set out that, as well as taking into account the circumstances of Ms claim and complaint, 
as well as the FCA rules and the law (including the FCA test case), I considered the 
arbitrators Award. I explained that the matters subject to the arbitration proceedings were largely comparable to those in this complaint, and that whilst the Award is not binding upon 
me (or M), but I thought it was appropriate to take it into account because it is an award 
given by an independent and impartial arbitrator, who is a former senior judge. As Ive 
explained above, both China Taiping and the policyholders were represented by 
experienced lawyers and so I was satisfied that the arbitrator had the benefit of hearing all 
the arguments on both sides.
I set out the key reasoning, as far as I considered relevant to the current complaint, for why 
the arbitrator concluded the policy did not provide the cover that was suggested by the 
policyholders involved in the arbitration as follows:
The natural meaning of the term competent local authority was a local, rather than 
central, body. The policyholders argued that competent local authority meant any 
authority which was competent to take action in relation to the local area. The 
arbitrator did not think this was right because it would mean that the word local did 
not add anything to competent authority.
Elsewhere, the policy distinguished between local authorities and government. 
However, there was no direct link between the relevant provisions; and insurance 
policy language may be taken from different sources.
The legislation in relation to diseases enables the Secretary of State to impose 
restrictions on a local or national basis; or to empower a local authority to do so. The 
Civil Contingencies Act (which grants powers to deal with emergencies) is in similar 
terms. China Taiping relied on the distinction under the legislation between 
government and local authorities. It also relied on other legislation conferring powers 
on local authorities to deal with emergencies and take enforcement action in relation 
to situations covered by the Denial of Access and Disease extensions, such as public 
safety issues, food poisoning, anti-social behaviour, sanitation, and vermin.
The test case judgment on the Ecclesiastical wording wasnt of much assistance, 
given the different contexts and wording of the policies. This included the 
Ecclesiastical policys use of the terms Government, Police and Local Authority as 
well as competent local authority; and the 25-mile radius in the Ecclesiastical 
disease clause. In the Ecclesiastical policy, it would have led to a very odd result if 
the two terms had meant different things.
China Taipings interpretation was not contrary to commercial common sense. 
Limiting the insured peril to local authority actions was understandable and most pre-
pandemic claims would have been covered. It was also a pragmatic way of indicating 
that the cover was localised.
I explained that the arbitrator therefore decided that competent local authority meant a 
body with local, rather than countrywide authority.
I confirmed that the Award the arbitrator reached is not binding on this service, but that I had 
considered the outcome and reasoning in the arbitration when reaching my own decision, for 
the reasons set out above.
I then discussed the terms of Ms policy. I said the starting point was to consider the specific 
policy M took out and what situations the insurance it provides responds to. I confirmed I had 
considered every aspect of the policy M holds with China Taiping to determine whether there 
were any sections that would require China Taiping to meet the claim M is making. And that, 
having done so, I didnt think there were.
I explained that Ms policy includes cover in relation to losses resulting from an interruption 
to Ms business. As with most policies of this nature, the business interruption section is initially based on the interruption being caused by damage to the policyholders premises. 
However, this cover is extended to include a number of other perils.
I said Ms claim is largely being considered under subsection b of the Denial of Access 
extension to the business interruption cover provided by Ms policy. However, several other 
terms within the policy are relevant to how this extension should be interpreted in the context 
of the rest of the policy.
As within my provisional decision, I have set out below the wording of the two clauses in Ms 
policy that Ive referred to directly within this decision. However, I said that in reaching my 
provisional decision I had considered the whole policy.
The terms below are all extensions to the business interruption section of Ms policy. The 
italicised words in these terms are defined within the policy. Ms policy includes 10 pages of 
general definitions, as well as further definitions which relate to specific sections. Their 
interpretation, as far as is relevant to the current complaint, is not in dispute. The terms 
competent local authority and Police or other competent local authority are not defined 
within the policy however and I confirmed the interpretation of these terms is a key issue for 
me to determine as part of this complaint.
The terms are:
1 Denial of Access
Insured Section 2 is extended to include interruption of or interference with the 
Business in consequence of
a Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use of the Property Insured or access to the Premises (whether or not the 
Property Insured or the Premises suffer similar loss, destruction or damage), 
provided that the cause of such Damage is covered and not excluded under 
Insured Section 2;
b the closing down or sealing off of the Premises or property in the vicinity of the 
Premises in accordance with instructions issued by the Police or other 
competent local authority for reasons other than the conduct of the Insured or 
any director or partner of the Insured or the condition of the Premises or the 
carrying out of repair or maintenance work at the Premises or the Insureds non-
compliance with a prior order of the Police or other competent local authority;
c the actions or advice of the Police or other competent local authority due to an 
emergency threatening life or property in the vicinity of the Premises; 
provided that
i in the absence of Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises this 
Extension does not apply to interruption of or interference with the Business 
lasting less than 24 (twenty four) hours;
ii the Indemnity Period with respect to this Extension will in no event exceed 31 
(thirty one) days in the absence of Damage to property in the vicinity of the 
Premises;
iii the most that the Insurers will pay under this Extension is the amount entered in 
the Schedule against Extension 1 (Denial of Access) or £100,000 if no such 
amount is entered in the Schedule.
And:2 Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation
Insured Section 2 is extended to include interruption of or interference with the 
Business commencing on the first day of any such interruption or interference in 
consequence of the occurrence at the Premises: 
a of murder, suicide or food or drink poisoning;
b of a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition;
c of vermin, pests or defective sanitation;
d which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice of 
the competent local authority; or
e Damage covered and not excluded under Insured Section 2 to the drains or 
sanitary apparatus at the Premises which results in closure of the Premises for 
the Business
The most that the Insurers will pay under this Extension is the amount entered in the 
Schedule against Extension 2 (Disease, infestation & defective sanitation) or, if no 
such amount is entered in the Schedule, £100,000.
Clarification of Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease 
Endorsement
It is hereby understood and agreed that for the purposes of the cover afforded by this 
Extension, the reference to a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease 
contained in paragraph b shall be deemed to mean solely the following diseases:
Diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act, 1984 or 
the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal, 
Pneumococcal, Haemophilus influenzae, Viral, Other specified, Unspecified, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Opthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough and Yellow fever. 
No other disease shall be added to the above list without the prior written consent of 
the Insurers.
I referred to these terms as the Denial of Access extension and the Disease extension within 
my provisional decision, and I have also done so within this final decision.
Whilst the focus of this complaint is on subclause b to the Denial of Access extension, I 
confirmed that I would briefly deal with the other terms above that look like they might offer 
cover, but do not in the circumstances of Ms claim. 
I firstly considered subclauses a and c of the Denial of Access extension and said:
Subclauses a and c of the Denial of Access extension 
I agree with the investigators conclusions in relation to these subclauses, and this 
has not been disputed by either party in relation to this complaint.
However, for the sake of clarity I will confirm that I consider China Taiping has acted 
fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ms claim under subclause a of the Denial of Access extension in Ms policy, as access to Ms property has not been denied by 
damage to property. COVID-19, and the Governments response to this, did not 
cause damage to property. And whilst M may have suffered a loss of income as a 
result of the denial of access that did occur, this was not the cause of that denial of 
access.
I also do not consider it would be fair or reasonable to require China Taiping to meet 
the claim under subclause c of this extension. The actions and advice of the 
Government, and other relevant bodies, in March 2020 in dealing with the COVID-19 
pandemic were not due to an emergency in the vicinity of Ms premises. The term 
vicinity is not defined within the policy, but it would relate to an area immediately 
around the premises, such as the neighbourhood. And whilst the size of this area 
might differ depending on the emergency in question, I do not think the entire country 
can would be considered the vicinity of the premises. The actions taken in March 
2020 were as a result of an emergency, the pandemic in general, which was affecting 
the entire country. Thus, this was not an emergency in the vicinity of the premises.
This was also the conclusion reached by the High Court in the FCA test case in 
relation to similar wording in other policies. And whilst I note the arbitrator made 
some comments around these conclusions, I see no reason to depart from the High 
Courts findings at this time. And even if I did, for the reasons given below when I 
discuss the meaning of competent local authority, this subclause would still not offer 
cover.
I then set out my thinking in relation to the Disease extension as follows.
The Disease extension
I also agree with the investigator, and with China Taiping, that the Disease extension 
in Ms policy does not respond to the current claim. 
The cover provided by the Disease extension in Ms policy is limited to a specific list 
of diseases. This does not include COVID-19. And whilst this disease was not in 
existence at the time M entered this contract of insurance, and so could not have 
been included in this list, the clause has been drafted to limit cover to only those 
diseases named.
Other policies provide cover for all notifiable diseases  a list updated by the 
Government when certain diseases emerge or become a cause for concern. As this 
term in Ms policy is limited to only the diseases mentioned, and says no other 
diseases will be added without China Taipings agreement, I do not consider it 
provides cover for diseases not mentioned  including COVID-19. I do not believe 
this point is disputed in this complaint.
China Taiping has submitted that the Disease extension Ms policy provides the 
exhaustive cover in the policy as it relates to the impact of disease on Ms business. I 
dont agree with this assessment of the policy. But for the reasons below, it is not 
necessary for me to discuss this point further.
Having provisionally determined that neither the Disease extension nor subclauses a and 
c of the Denial of Access extension offer cover in the circumstances of Ms claim, I set out 
my thinking in relation to subclause b to this latter extension.
Subclause b of the Denial of Access extensionThe cover offered by subclause b is seemingly quite broad. But it does require there 
to have been instructions issued by the Police or other competent local authority 
that have led to the closing down or sealing off of the premises.
Neither the terms the Police nor other competent local authority have been 
defined within the policy. As such, it is necessary for me to determine what these 
terms are most likely to mean given their context.
I think the Police can be interpreted in line with the normal everyday usage of this 
term and I think this would be commonly understood. Whilst there have been some 
points raised over whether the police constitutes a number of localised bodies, this 
does not take away from a general understanding that the Police should be 
interpreted as referring to the police force. 
Mr B has said that he was contacted by the police during the period M was closed. 
And that the police asked him to confirm that M was closed. However, the closure of 
M was a requirement following the instructions of the Prime Minister and the UK 
Government. By the time Mr B was contacted, Ms premises were already closed. 
So, it cannot be said Ms premises were closed in accordance with instructions 
issued by the police. Whilst the police may have taken action to enforce that closure 
had M remained open (or reopened) in breach of the March Regulations, this did not 
happen in the circumstances of Ms claim.
It is though necessary for me to consider in more depth what the term competent 
local authority means. China Taiping has said that whilst Ms premises were closed, 
this was not due to the instructions of a local authority. And that this is what the term 
requires.
I note our investigator concluded this term could mean a national body, and gave a 
number of reasons for this.
I agree with much of the investigators reasoning. I think references to the Police 
could be references to a nationwide force, so I dont think these references are 
indicative of the other authority necessarily being localised. Similarly, I think the use 
of this term in the Disease extension is not determinative, as it could either be a local 
or a national body that imposed relevant restrictions following the outbreak of one of 
a number of the diseases covered by that clause.
Further, I agree that the fact subclause b sits between two subclauses with a 
localised focus doesnt necessarily mean this term refers only to localised authorities. 
Firstly, China Taiping has not explained why the express vicinity requirement has not 
been included in subclause b. And the decision not to include it may have been to 
distinguish this subclause from the others in this extension. Secondly, the reason 
these subclauses are grouped together is that they deal with situations where access 
to the policyholders premises have been denied and that is the context subclause b 
should be considered in. 
However, ultimately, I disagree with the investigator that the term competent local 
authority means something other than a localised authority. As the arbitrator has 
concluded, there is seemingly no reason for the inclusion of the word local in this 
term other than to limit the relevant authorities to a narrow geographic area. And I 
consider the natural way of reading this term would be to conclude that it referred to 
local bodies only.When reaching this conclusion, I am mindful of the fact Ms insurance contract should 
be interpreted objectively, based on the understanding a reasonable person, with Mr 
Bs background knowledge, would have had at the time the contract was entered  in 
this case in May 2019. I dont think the reasonable person would have read this 
policy and considered that this term referred to a national authority/the UK 
Government. That would not be the normal understanding of the words used in the 
term.
I do note that a slightly different interpretation of the term competent local authority 
was reached in the FCA test case when the court considered the Ecclesiastical 
policies. However, such terms need to be interpreted based on the context of the 
contract they appear in. And there are significant differences between the 
Ecclesiastical policies and Ms policy. To my mind, the key difference was that the 
Ecclesiastical policy used this term in a clause that also contained the term 
Government Police or Local Authority. And it would not have made commercial 
sense for the two terms to have a different meaning in that context.
I think that restrictions that might be imposed on M which might fall generally into the 
areas of cover provided by sub-clauses (b) and c in the Denial of Access extension, 
as well as the Disease extension, could be following instructions of either local or 
national bodies. But that there is reasonable commercial sense in China Taiping 
having limited cover to where those instructions are given by a local body. This would 
have given M cover for the events which were most likely to affect it, but would also 
have limited China Taipings exposure to extreme events, which are more likely to 
result in a national response, such extreme events likely to result in high value 
claims. And, significantly, I dont think M would reasonably have understood the 
policy as providing cover different to this when it was entered in May 2019.
Ultimately, I consider that in the context of Ms policy the term competent local 
authority refers to a localised body. The instructions that led to the closure of Ms 
premises were issued by the Prime Minister and the UK Government. And I dont 
consider these to be a localised body. As such, I do not consider M was instructed to 
close its premises by a competent local authority. And I consider China Taiping 
acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ms claim under subclause b of the 
Denial of Access extension.
Having considered the rest of Ms policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any 
area of cover that means China Taiping should have met Ms claim.
I confirmed that my provisional decision was not to uphold Ms complaint. I invited M and 
China Taiping to provide anything further they wanted me to consider. China Taiping didnt 
provide anything more, but Mr B responded on behalf of M. 
Ms response to my provisional decision
Mr B said:
The High Court had found competent local authority to be able to include central 
government.
That both the police and Ms local council had contacted M to confirm that they were 
closed. Mr B queried whether, had M traded and been prosecuted, M could have 
claimed for the loss of its licence. And felt that Ms current claim should be met.
As China Taiping had made arguments about whether interest should be added to 
the claim, it showed that they were not confident of the complaint not being upheld. Mr B didnt feel China Taiping had assisted M at all. And felt the complaint should be 
upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted Mr Bs comments, together with the rest of the circumstances of this complaint. 
However, whilst I appreciate his strength of feeling, I am not persuaded to change my 
provisional decision. 
As I have set out in my provisional decision, and repeated above, the High Court did indeed 
find that the term competent local authority could refer to central government. But as Ive 
explained, that finding was specific to the policy wording being considered at the time. The 
wording of Ms policy is different to this and provides a different context in which this term 
must be interpreted. For the reasons above, I consider the term competent local authority 
in Ms policy refers to local bodies only and does not include central government. 
I note that Mr B has said he was contacted by the police and his local council. But it seems 
that this happened after M had closed. So, I cant say that the reason for this closure was 
these communications. If it were, the event would have preceded the cause. 
I am also not able to comment on what might have happened had the situation been 
different. My role is to consider whether China Taiping has acted appropriately in the 
circumstances that do exist.
In terms of China Taipings comments over how interest might be applied to any award; 
whilst I appreciate what Mr B has said, it is not uncommon for a party to a complaint to make 
representations on a particular aspect even though that aspect turns out not to be 
determinative. China Taiping were clear in its submissions that its comments were not an 
admission of liability. But it felt it did need to make representations in case my decision was 
the same as the investigators. 
Ultimately, whilst I appreciate Mr Bs feelings that China Taiping has not assisted M, this 
assistance would come via the cover provided by Ms policy. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider that China Taiping acted inappropriately by declining Ms claim. So, whilst I 
recognise this decision will be disappointing for Mr B, I hope Ive provided him with a 
thorough explanation of why Ms policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
M, to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman