DRN-2622813
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complained about a package bank account (PBA) they held with Barclays
Bank UK PLC.
What happened 
Mrs and Mr H have had a series of PBAs with Barclays:
Additions account from 1997
Additions Plus account from 2007
Premier Life account from 2010
These came with various banking and insurance benefits, in return for a monthly fee.
The Premier Life PBA cost Mrs and Mr H £25 per month. In November 2015, Barclays 
replaced this with a free bank account, but with separate paid-for insurance packages  the 
Tech Pack, the Home Pack and the Travel Pack. Altogether, these came to the same 
amount of £25 per month, but with a discount for the first year reducing the charge to £23. 
The new arrangement gave roughly the same insurance benefits that Mrs and Mr H had 
under the Premier Life account. Charges for overdrafts potentially increased, depending on 
how big the overdraft was.
Mrs and Mr H complained that they hadnt known about the benefits and had only taken the 
Premier Life account because they say they were told it would stop overdraft charges. 
Barclays investigated the sales of all the PBAs. It didnt uphold the complaint about the 1997 
sale, and Mrs and Mr H havent asked us to look into that.
Barclays also said complaints about the sales of the PBAs in 2007 and 2010 were out of
time under the Financial Conduct Authority rules; and Mrs and Mr H havent asked us to
look into that further. They have asked us to look at what happened with the change in the
account in November 2015.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said he thought the complaint should be 
upheld. This was because he thought Barclays hadnt, in 2015, made clear to Mrs and Mr H 
that they could now have a fee-free account. He recommended that Barclays put Mrs and 
Mr H back in the same position theyd have been, if they hadnt had the insurance packs 
since November 2015.
Barclays didnt agree, and so the matter was passed to me to make a decision. When I 
looked at the case, I reached a different view of the case. I thought the case shouldnt be 
upheld. So I set out my view in a provisional decision and asked for comments. This is 
what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. 
Ive kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
My current view is that this complaint, about what happened in 2015, shouldnt be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
First, in my view, the change in the account in 2015 wasnt a sale. Barclays wasnt 
imposing a new product on its customers involving new costs for benefits  in fact the 
cost of these for Mrs and Mr H went down at first. Instead Barclays was changing the 
way it administered its account, which it was entitled to do, as long as it gave its 
customers reasonable notice.
The adjudicator pointed out that the ombudsman service has previously expressed 
reservations about how Barclays communicated the changes in 2015. But that is only 
in the context of how much compensation Barclays should pay customers when 
weve found a mis-sale in the years before 2015.
But in Mrs and Mr Hs case, there are different considerations. Im not looking at 
whether there was a mis-sale before 2015, for the reasons Ive explained already. 
Instead I need here to decide if the letters were enough to warn Mrs and Mr H that 
there would be a change in the way the PBA was administered. And I think they were 
enough.
A letter was sent to Mrs and Mr H in February 2015, at the address that Barclays 
held for them, to tell them about forthcoming changes. The letter said that new 
eligibility criteria (mainly to do with income levels) would be introduced for the 
Premier account in April. Customers not meeting those criteria would eventually be 
moved to an ordinary Barclays account. It said the insurance benefits would continue 
as before, but as separate add-ons. In August 2015 Barclays wrote again and said 
that it would soon be changing Mrs and Mr Hs account into an ordinary account with 
the Packs.
I think these were enough to warn Mrs and Mr H of the change in the way Barclays 
would run the account, and how it would treat the insurance benefits as continuing, 
albeit administered in a different way. So the letters told them what was going to 
happen and invited them to contact Barclays if they had any concerns.
So my current view is that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in changing the account 
in 2015.
In response Mrs and Mr H said they didnt agree with me. They said in particular:
If they had been made aware of the insurance being added to their account, they 
wouldnt have required it, as they already had similar insurance and wouldnt have 
been able to claim twice. They said, To have an account changed to one not 
appropriate for the customer is not fair treatment.
They had been told that additions products were not part of the account and nothing 
had changed. 
They had told the bank there was confusion over another persons address, which was similar to their own address, and that post was going missing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs and Mr H have said, but it hasnt led me to change my view of 
the case. 
I havent here looked at what happened in 2015. It was in previous years that the account 
was changed to include the insurance products. Ive just looked at how Barclays changed 
the way it ran the account in 2015. In my view, there wasnt a material difference in what was 
provided to Mrs and Mr H in the 2015 changes  just a change in the way it was described 
and administered. I accept that Mrs and Mr H are unhappy with the way these products were 
originally added to the account in the years before 2015, but Im not looking at that in this 
decision. 
Its hard to know what other information Barclays gave about the products in, or after, 2015. 
But I dont have good evidence that it gave information that misled Mrs and Mr H, and which 
led to them losing out.
I dont have other evidence that Barclays should have been aware Mrs and Mr H were 
having difficulty receiving mail. And I can see that the address it was using is the same as 
the one it used for addressing recent complaints. And given the fact Barclays wrote more 
than one letter about the 2015 change, I think it was reasonable for it to believe that the 
information had got through to Mrs and Mr H in some form.
For these reasons, and those set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman