DRN-4166631
The complaint
Mr E complains that a timeshare product was misrepresented to him and that the timeshare 
company is in breach of contract. The purchase was financed with credit provided by 
Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb). Because of that, Mr E says that he has a claim 
against Honeycomb in the same way he has a claim against the timeshare company. 
The loan (and with it responsibility for this complaint) was transferred in August 2022 to Oplo 
PL Ltd (Oplo), but, for simplicity, I shall refer to the respondent as Honeycomb.  
Mr E has been represented by a claims management company, which Ill call F.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E were existing timeshare owners with Azure Resorts, a timeshare and holiday 
company. 
Following a change in the way Azure Resorts operated, in June 2018 Mr and Mrs E bought 
points (called XPs) which they could exchange for holiday accommodation and experiences, 
including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving experiences. They bought 5,000 XPs for 
£14,250, funded with a 180 month loan from Honeycomb in Mr Es name. 
In or around 2020 Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited went into liquidation. 
In June 2021 F contacted Honeycomb on behalf of Mr E. F said that the XP points had been 
misrepresented to him. He had been told when buying previous timeshare products that they 
were an investment, but in June 2018 he had been told they could not be sold after all. Mr E 
was told that he would have to buy XP points in order to sell his timeshares. They have not 
been sold.
F said too that because the Azure companies were in liquidation they could no longer 
provide the services sold. They were therefore in breach of contract. 
Further, F said, it was not disclosed to Mr E that a commission would be paid, no checks 
were carried out to ensure Mr E could afford the loan payments, and Mr and Mrs E were 
pressured into buying the XP points on the day.     
Honeycomb did not uphold Mr Es complaint. It said, in summary:
Mr E would have had the documentation, including the finance documents, explained to 
him. 
Mr E was entitled to seek out a different lender or to pay by different means. He chose 
to take a loan from Honeycomb, however, and had a 14-day cooling-off period if he 
wanted to change his mind.
All affordability checks were carried out for the lending.  
F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. F made further submissions 
in response, which I summarise below:
The XP points were represented as giving easy access to a wide range of resorts, but 
there was limited availability when Mr and Mrs E tried to book. The level of membership 
they bought did not give them access to the level of accommodation they had been led 
to believe.
It would take Mr E more than 30 years to redeem his points. 
Azure did sell timeshares as investments. This service has found that Azures resale 
scheme has been discontinued.
The sales agreement shows that XP points can only be sold through Azures own 
scheme. 
It is widely accepted that timeshares tend to be overvalued and it is unlikely that any 
can be sold on.   
F asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
As a general point, its important to note that Mr Es complaint arises from the sale and 
purchase of XP points in June 2018, and it can be brought against Honeycomb because 
Honeycomb financed that transaction. 
Much of Mr Es concern, however, appears to arise from what he was told previously about 
the possibility of selling timeshares (that is, weeks allocated for the use of identified 
properties), not about the agreement for the sale and purchase of XP points. As far as I am 
aware however, Honeycomb did not finance the timeshare purchases. 
Also, my role is to determine Mr Es complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the individual complaint. I wont therefore be 
commenting directly on Fs observations about the general operation of the Azure 
companies. 
Affordability and suitability checks
When it referred the complaint to this service, F said that Honeycomb had not carried out 
any checks to ensure that the loan was affordable and appropriate to Mr Es needs. It also 
said that Mr E had not been given any choice about the lender he used. 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. But I do not believe here that it is correct to say that 
no checks were carried out. The documents which Honeycomb has provided include details 
of Mr Es salary and pension income, his mortgage, and other expenditure including regular 
insurance premiums. Given that Mr E must have provided that information himself, it is 
surprising in my view that F said no checks had been made. 
I note too that Mr E has made payments in full and on time. He says that he has only been 
able to do so by delaying his proposed retirement date. It is not clear to me, however, what 
triggered that decision which would not have been apparent when Mr E took the loan out. It 
was a 15-year loan that went well past his planned retirement age. I think it is significant too 
that Mr E did not at any point before raising this complaint contact Honeycomb to suggest he 
was having difficulty making payments. I am satisfied that Honeycomb did make appropriate checks before agreeing to the loan. But 
if Mr E is having difficulty making repayments, I would expect Opla (as the company now 
responsible for the loan) to discuss options with him. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the XP points. The loan 
documents refer to three credit intermediaries  Business Brokers Limited; Vacation Finance 
Limited; and Freedom Finance. For reasons I shall discuss further, it is not clear who the 
supplier is. Honeycomb has not suggested however that the necessary arrangements were 
not in place for sections 56 and 75 to apply, and I have therefore approached the case on 
the assumption that they did. It is of course open to the parties to make further submissions 
on this point, should they wish to do so. 
I must therefore consider what F has said about the alleged breach of contract and 
misrepresentations. 
Breach of contract
Honeycomb provided a copy of the purchase agreement and of the Azure Experiences Club 
Rules. I have been provided with no further documents setting out the terms of the sale and 
purchase agreement. The purchase agreement is a one-page document which does little 
more than record Mr and Mrs Es details, the date and the purchase price. It does not 
identify the supplier or seller. If there are further documents (such as printed terms and 
conditions), I will consider them when I issue any final decision.     
In a letter of 2 June 2021 to Honeycomb of 6 June 2021, F said:
Azure are now in liquidation. They cannot provide the service sold. They are in breach of 
contract.   
The first of those statements was true, but it did not follow that there was a breach of 
contract. Azure XP Limited had founded the Azure Experiences Membership Club. It had 
ownership of or access to properties which were to be used by members, but transferred 
those ownership and access rights to a different company, the sole shareholder in which 
was to be a trustee.   
On 8 July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr Es purchase of XP points remain 
available to him and are unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
F did not suggest that it would be a breach of contract for any company other than Azure to 
provide the membership services. If that is Mr Es case, then I disagree. The contract is 
performed if the services are provided; they do not have to be provided by Azure. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
As I have said, much of what Mr E says he was told here concerns the possibility of selling 
his timeshares. But he says too that he was told the purchase of XP points would make that 
easier. I am afraid however that I think it most unlikely that he was told that. There is no 
explanation of how that could be the case or why Mr E believed that the purchase of points 
would help with the sale of timeshares. If he had been told that  or had otherwise believed 
that to be the case  I would have expected him to ask for more information.    
Mr E says that he would need to remain a club member for more than 30 years to use up all 
his XP points. That is not my understanding, however. Section 3 of the Club Rules sets out 
the minimum of XP points which should be used. For level 1 membership that is 160 points. 
So, only if he uses the minimum number of points will Mr E take 31.25 years to use his 
allocation of 5,000 points. The Reservation Rules indicate however that members can 
accelerate the use of points  that is, they can use them early. If Mr E was unwilling to do 
that, it is not clear to me why he bought the number of XP points that he did.    
The Reservation Rules said that reservations would be on a first come, first served basis. I 
think it was implicit in that that members would not always be able to book their first choice 
of accommodation. Further, although Mr E has said he has been unable to book his choice 
of accommodation, he has not provided any details of accommodation he has tried but been 
unable to book, or of holidays he has been able to take.    
Section 4 of the Club Rules set out how the membership fees would increase over time and 
how the Accelerated Usage Fee would be calculated and what the fees would be spent on. I 
am not persuaded that he was misled about them.
Section 7 dealt with the transfer of rights. It allowed the transfer of membership, including by 
sale, subject to the written approval of Azure. I think however it is unlikely that Mr E was told 
that XP points were an investment. Given the difficulty he has described in selling 
timeshares, it is in my view unlikely that he believed XP points would be more easy to sell 
than an interest in an identifiable property.      Given that these points were covered in the Club Rules and that Mr E had a 14-day cooling-
off period in which to check any matters which were of particular importance to him, I do not 
believe it was unreasonable of Honeycomb to decline his claim under section 75. 
Other matters
F says that Mr E was not given a choice of lenders. I have however seen Azures Initial 
Disclosure Document, which explains that Honeycomb is its preferred lender. But there is 
nothing to suggest that Mr E could not have selected his own lender (although doing so 
would have lost him some of the protections under the Consumer Credit Act). 
F says too that the payment of commission should have been disclosed to Mr E. There is 
however no suggestion that it was important to him, or that it would have made any 
difference to his decision to purchase. 
In any event, Azure wasnt acting as an agent of Mr E, but as the supplier of XP points. It 
also introduced Honeycomb as a preferred lender, if Mr E wanted to take out a loan. But it 
does not appear to me that it was Azures role to make an impartial or disinterested 
recommendation or to give Mr E advice or information on that basis. In any event, typical 
amounts of commission paid by lenders were unlikely to be much more than 10%.   
It is not for me to decide whether Mr E has a claim against Azure, or whether he might 
therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make 
orders under sections 140A and 140B of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a 
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Es 
complaint. In the circumstances, I think that Honeycombs response to Mr Es claims was fair 
and reasonable.    
Subsequent events 
On 5 May 2023 the High Court gave judgment in two judicial review cases brought by 
lenders against the Financial Ombudsman Service in cases involving timeshare sales and 
loans ([2023] EWHC 1069 (Admin).   
Mr E made further submissions in response to my provisional decision. He said that it had 
not been explained to him that, with the number of XP points he had bought, it would not be 
possible to buy the holidays he had been told would be available. When he tried to book a 
holiday the year after he had bought the points, he was told he would need to use additional 
points and pay an extra fee.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the evidence and arguments I have already considered, as well as those 
provided after I issued my provisional decision. 
Mr Es submission in response to my provisional decision expands to some extent on his 
earlier argument that the level of membership selected does not provide the range of 
holidays he was led to believe it would. He says he was not told how limited his options 
would be if he only bought Level One (or entry level) membership. The issue was not that accommodation was fully booked, but that his membership level would not allow him to book 
the accommodation he wanted, even if it was available. 
That is, in my view, not entirely consistent with that part of Mr Es complaint in which he said 
it would take him many years to use all his XP points  in effect, a complaint that he had too 
many points, 
Be that as it may, I think that Mr Es evidence here is at odds with the documents he 
received. His own statement says he knew he was buying Level 1 membership, and that 
was also included on page one of the contract.
Clause 2 of the Club Membership Rules was a definitions clause. Membership Level was a 
defined term, and the accompanying explanation listed five different levels. 
Clause 3 dealt with Rights of Occupation and Use, and clause 3(f) set out the minimum level 
of credits to be used each year, from 160 for Level 1 to 1,000 for level 5.
Schedule 1 to the Club Membership Rules included a series of tables, setting out what types 
of accommodation and other experiences were available at each membership level. I think it 
was clear from that table that Level 1 membership gave access to mainly smaller properties 
at off-peak times. 
The second and third tables provided similar information about sailing holidays and supercar 
experiences. They were only available at Levels 3 and above.    
The final table covered motor homes, which at Level 1 membership were only available at 
off-peak times. 
The full set of documentation is lengthy and, in parts, complex. But Mr Es complaint here is 
that Azure had not properly explained the implications of buying Level 1 membership, as 
opposed to a higher level. The parts of the documentation that dealt with the different 
membership levels and the benefits which could be exchanged at those levels was, in my 
view, very clear. I do not believe that Mr Es submissions in response to my provisional 
decision give me any reason to change my view. 
For completeness, I should say too that I have considered carefully the judicial review 
judgment, but do not believe either that it contains anything that would change my 
conclusions here.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Oplo PL Ltd to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Es complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman