DRN-2570303
The complaint
Mr O complains that NewDay Ltd unfairly refused the claim he brought under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This was in relation to unfair charges that had allegedly been 
charged to his credit card. He wants compensation for consequential losses.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons.
I empathise with Mr O and I accept that it wouldve been upsetting and frustrating to have 
payments charged direct to his account without justifiable cause.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Os complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law but I dont directly apply the law. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer a like claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. Here the alleged breach of contract 
is the application of unjustified charges to Mr Os account with NewDay.
I think its important to understand that any liability that NewDay might have incurred under 
section 75 would result from the actions of the vehicle hire company, a business Ill refer to 
as E. Mr O tried to obtain information from E but was seemingly met with an inadequate 
response. Although he received a partial refund from E, NewDay turned down his claim as it 
said it hadnt been provided with sufficient information to show that E had been in breach of 
contract.
I accept that Mr O found himself in a difficult position. On the one hand he faced a business 
which wasnt supplying the information he sought. And on the other, he was being told by 
NewDay that without this information it couldnt accept thered been a breach of contract.
Mr O decided to take matters forward by issuing court proceedings against E. His claim to 
the court included 700 Euros (which was refunded before the hearing by E); 544.76 euros 
(the balance of the disputed amount); £30.31 credit card fee; 25 euros court claim fee and 
interest.
Ive seen that a court gave judgment in his favour against E and awarded him 544.76 euros. 
Mr O is now seeking consequential losses in the form of the court claim fee, interest charges 
and currency exchange losses.
The claim that Mr O made to the court included the amounts he now seeks to recover from 
NewDay. Had the court determined that it was appropriate to award these amounts it would 
no doubt have done so.
This service isnt able to change a court decision. And that would include filling in any 
perceived gaps in the decision. So I cant uphold Mr Os complaint on these issues.
A court has dealt with Mr Os claim for breach of contract against E. NewDay cant be held 
liable for any losses allegedly arising from the same breach which the court didnt award.
Mr O brought his complaint to NewDay in October 2019. It responded in a letter dated 22 
November 2019 stating that it wouldnt be upholding the complaint due to the lack of 
information. That letter informed Mr O of the type of evidence hed require to further his 
claim. Which was in the form of a damage invoice. It also advised where that information 
might be located. I think that by informing Mr O of what it required, NewDay tried to offer 
reasonable assistance. Mr O then issued his court claim in December 2019.
Subsequently, NewDay issued a final response letter on 17 March 2020 repeating the 
reasons why it had been unable to uphold Mr Os complaint. The court gave judgment for Mr 
O against E on 24 March 2020.
I dont think that NewDay can reasonably be criticised for seeking some evidence  in 
addition to Mr Os account of circumstances  to allow it to determine if there had been a 
breach of contract by E. And its response which informed Mr O of this wasnt unreasonably 
delayed. After that, events were overtaken by the court proceedings.
In summary, Mr O was entirely within his rights to take court action against E. But that was a 
choice he exercised personally. And as a court has dealt with the breach of contract by E, 
any liability that NewDay might have had in relation to that breach under Section 75, has 
been determined by that judgment. As Ive already stated Im unable to do anything which 
would have the effect of altering that judgment.
Im also satisfied that NewDay investigated Mr Os complaint properly. And that its decision 
not to uphold it due to the lack of information was justified. Accordingly, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman