DRN-2175532
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) declined her claim for storm 
damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M contacted Tesco to make an insurance claim when water leaked through the roof of 
her property into her home. Tesco declined the claim as it said the damage wasnt the result 
of a storm.
Mrs M complained to Tesco. When Tesco replied it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim and said that the damage to the roof was due to wear and tear, which wasnt covered 
by the policy.
Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
Tesco had acted reasonably in turning down the claim and that it was more likely that the 
damage was caused by wear and tear to the roof over a period of time.
As Mrs M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the first question, when Tesco turned down the claim, it said that the winds 
werent strong enough around the time of the claim to be regarded as a storm. However, I 
note that about a week before Mrs M made the claim, there were strong winds in the local 
area with a peak gust of 53 miles per hour. So I think there were storm conditions around 
this time.
On the second question, I think that a storm could cause damage to a roof leading to water 
leaking into a property.
So, looking at the third question, of whether a storm was the main cause of the damage, Ive 
looked at what Tescos surveyor found. The surveyors report showed that there were some 
maintenance and wear and tear issues with the roof, including to the soffits and fascias and 
the side undercloaking. Im aware that Mrs M has said that the affected area of the roof was 
nowhere near the fascias and soffits. However, I think their condition does give an indication 
of the overall condition of the roof and of whether maintenance had been carried out. 
Reading the report and looking at the photos, I think that Tescos assessment of the roof 
showed that there were a number of issues with the roof and that these had happened over 
a period of time. 
On that basis, I think that it was reasonable for Tesco to turn down the claim for storm 
damage because although the leak happened around the time of a storm, I think it is more 
likely that the storm highlighted an already existing issue, as shown by the surveyors 
findings about the overall condition of the roof.  As part of that, I think that it was reasonable 
for Tesco to rely on its surveyors report as this was an expert assessment by someone who 
had physically inspected the damage. I also havent seen anything that shows me that this 
assessment was clearly wrong.
Im aware that Mrs M has said that she thinks exclusions, such as for maintenance and wear 
and tear, could be applied to any situation in order to turn down a claim. But it isnt unusual 
for policies to have these types of exclusions. This is because insurance policies are 
normally designed to deal with one off events rather than issues that arise over a period of 
time, which is what seems to have happened here.
Ive also thought about whether this damage would be covered by the accidental damage 
part of the policy, but the relevant terms and conditions exclude loss or damage that 
happened gradually over time. So, I dont think the damage is covered by this part of the 
policy either.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that it was reasonable for Tesco to decline this 
claim because the survey indicated that a storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. It 
therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint or require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman