DRN-4317565
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire agreement with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions (Novuna). 
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs W acquired a car through a hire agreement with Novuna. 
In March 2023 Mrs W complained to Novuna about the end of contract charges she received 
when she returned her car at the end of the finance agreement. Mrs W says she is being 
asked to pay £860 in damage charges for poor repair; which she said she was told by the 
collecting agent, that theyd be passed on to her insurance company.
In May 2023, Novuna issued their final response to Mrs Ws complaint which they didnt 
uphold. Novuna explained the damages identified fell short of the standards set by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA)
Unhappy with their decision, Mrs W brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having reviewed all the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that Mrs 
Ws complaint should not be upheld. He concluded that as the car wasnt repaired to the 
standards required prior to being returned Novuna had a right to charge for the 
unsatisfactory repairs.
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators view. She said she would have returned her car to the 
repairing garage if shed known shed have to pay £860 for a poor repair. However, as the 
investigators view hadnt changed Mrs W asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts like this is 
a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mrs Ws complaint about Novuna. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Lease and Rental 
Association (BVLRA), and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on passenger cars, when they are 
returned to a BVRLA member at the end of a finance agreement. As Novuna are members 
of the BVRLA, Ive referred to these standards throughout my decision. 
My starting point is that neither party dispute the damage that has been recorded. Novuna 
has said the damage falls outside of fair wear and tear guidelines, and Mrs W, in an email to 
our investigator dated 24 July 2023 said her main concern was with the way she was misled 
in the conversation regarding the outcome.  
So, Ive focussed my decision on whether Novuna treated Mrs W fairly in their decision to 
apply the damage charges, in light of the conversation that took place with the collecting 
inspector.
The terms of the hire agreement set out what Mrs Ws responsibilities are in relation to the 
car. Under section 3.1 (b) of your obligations concerning the vehicle it says:
You agree to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for 
any damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and 
tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA)
On the return of vehicles, the BVRLA guidance says:
the customer will be given the opportunity to agree with the condition of the vehicle at the 
point of collection. The leasing company will then be able to carry out a final assessment of 
the vehicle to calculate what end of lease charges, if any, are payable
In their final response Novuna explained that Mrs Ws hire car was collected under their 
inspect and collect process which meant a trained inspector would inspect the car prior to its 
collection and their report would be used to calculate any charges.
In consideration of the terms and the BVRLA guidance Im satisfied that the process for the 
collection of the car happened as it should have. 
Mrs W says her main concern is with what she was told by the collecting agent. Mrs W says 
she was misled into thinking she wouldnt have to pay for some of the damage, and that had 
she known the condition of the car wasnt acceptable she would have gone back to her 
insurance company in the first instance for further repairs. So, Ive considered whether Mrs 
W was treated fairly when her car was being collected.
Mrs W provided us with a video recording of the conversation that took place with the 
collecting agent. The recording is about 96 seconds in length and starts and finishes in mid 
conversation between the collecting agent and with a person I believe to be Mrs W. So, Im 
persuaded there was a continuation of the conversation at either end of the video. I think this 
is important as Ive seen no evidence of what may have been said prior to or following what 
is shown on the recording.
During the recording the agent is discussing the possibility that some of the repairs may go 
through the insurance company. He also says that hell put that Mrss W disagrees with the 
poor repair and that hed be surprised if there was a charge for some of the issues. He later 
advised that hed expect the costs to be in the region of £200. 
I dont think what the collecting agent said was helpful in the circumstances, however, I 
havent seen any evidence that he guaranteed or confirmed any final costs to Mrs W. Im not persuaded that the agent gave the impression the final decision about any damage charges 
lay with him. 
Throughout the recording he was advising what he would do, for example, that hed make a 
note of Mrs Ws disagreement to the repairs and that it was to be referred to the insurance 
company, and that he didnt think the charges would be higher than a certain amount. 
However, the collecting agent also used the phrase Id be surprised if, when referring to 
what limit he felt the final damage costs would not be in excess of. In the circumstances I 
think its reasonable to conclude that he wasnt deciding the costs, but most likely compiling 
a report that would be used to assess and calculate the final charges. 
Section 3.1 (b) of the finance agreement says:
You agree to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for 
any damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and 
tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA)
Overall, I dont think its reasonable to consider the conversation with the collection agent 
would remove any responsibility Mrs W had in relation to the condition of the car at the end 
of the agreement. Under the terms of the agreement any damage caused is Mrs Ws 
responsibility. So, I dont consider that Novuna have acted unfairly in the circumstances.
I recognise Mrs Ws strength of feeling that she was being led by the conversation she had 
with the collecting agent, however for the reasons given, I dont think this removes her 
liability towards the damages and so in the circumstances Im satisfied that Novuna have 
acted fairly.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman