DRN-2782673
The complaint
 Miss O complains about how Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) handled a claim 
made under her motor insurance and their decision to cancel the policy.
Miss Os policy is branded under a different name but Ill refer to Calpe only for simplicity. 
 
What happened
  Miss O took out her policy via a broker in November 2019.
 
On 6 May 2020, Miss O was involved in an accident involving another car. Calpe received a 
claim from the other driver about three weeks after the accident had taken place.
 
On 28 May 2020, Calpe tried to contact Miss O by phone about the accident and the 
subsequent claim but couldnt reach her.
On 29 May 2020, Calpe emailed and wrote to Miss O to ask her to get in touch with them 
about the claim. 
Calpe tried to call Miss O again on 5 June 2020 but again couldnt get through.
Because of this, Calpe decided to cancel Miss Os policy and said they werent going to 
cover her for the claim from the other driver.  
Miss O says she didnt respond to contact from Calpe because she didnt recognise the 
company name as shed bought the policy originally from a broker which had a different 
name.
 
Miss O complained to Calpe about their decision to cancel her policy and to ask her to pay 
for the other drivers claim. 
Calpe responded to Miss Os complaint to say that it tried multiple times to get in touch with 
Miss O and has she had failed to co-operate, under the terms of the policy, they were 
cancelling it and not covering the cost of the other drivers claim.
 
Miss O referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Miss Os complaint. She said, in summary, she didnt think 
Calpes position had been prejudiced by Miss Os failure to cooperate with the claim so she 
thought the claim should be dealt with under Miss Os policy.
Calpe didnt agree. They said their position had been prejudiced in particular by Miss Os 
refusal to allow them to inspect her car. They asked for a final decision so the case has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  The terms and conditions of Miss Os policy required the policyholder to report any claims 
incidents or accidents to them within 48 hours. The policy also says that Calpe may cancel 
the policy if the policyholder fails to co-operate with them or send them information when 
requested. 
 
Calpe tried to call Miss O twice, emailed and wrote to her a number of times to ask her about 
the accident. Im satisfied the letters and emails were sent to Miss Os correct address. So I 
dont know why she didnt receive them. But I find Caple did everything Id expect to try and 
contact Miss O about the claim. 
In June 2020, the broker wrote to Miss O to say if she didnt get in touch about the accident 
within seven days her policy would be cancelled. The broker wrote again about a week later 
to confirm, as they hadnt heard from Miss O, that the policy had now been cancelled. So I 
find Calpe gave Miss O the required notice before cancelling her policy. 
Miss O says she didnt respond to contact from Calpe because she didnt know who they 
were as shed taken out her policy over the phone with another company. But Ive seen the 
documents sent to Miss O when she first took out her policy. The insurance certificate, 
statement of fact and the policy document all set out Calpe as the insurer and refer to their 
agents that contacted Miss O initially about the claim. These documents also set out who 
Miss O should contact to report claims and accidents. So I find Miss O had been told who 
the insurer and their agents were.
  
Miss O also says she tried to report the accident to the broker but their phone lines were 
closed because of the pandemic. And she couldnt use their online portal because her phone 
screen was broken. But as Ive said, Miss Os policy documents set out who she should 
contact to report claims or accidents to. 
So Im satisfied Miss O had breached two conditions of her policy so Calpe were entitled to 
cancel the policy and gave Miss O the required notice before doing so.
Calpe also decided they werent going to cover Miss O for the other drivers claim. Which 
means they are seeking to recover what theyd paid out  more than £6,000  directly from 
Miss O. 
Calpe cancelled Miss Os policy on 22 June 2020. The accident relating to the other drivers 
claim took place on 6 May 2020, so at a time when cover was still place. And while I accept 
Miss O was in breach of the policys terms by not reporting the accident to Calpe and then 
not responding to their requests for information, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case for Calpe to refuse to cover the other drivers claim under the 
contract of insurance. 
I say this because I dont think Miss Os failure to co-operate significantly disadvantaged 
Calpes ability to handle the claim. Miss O, when she eventually did speak to Calpe, 
accepted she was at fault immediately. Calpe had all the information relating to the other 
drivers claim from their insurer. So I find it more likely than not Calpes decision to settle the 
claim in the way they now have wouldnt have been different if Miss O had provided 
everything Calpe wanted her to. 
So I find Calpe should deal with the other drivers claim under Miss Os policy. But there is 
an excess on Miss Os policy of £1,000 which Calpe is entitled to charge. 
Miss O has also said she feels a refund of her premium is due but, as Ive decided Calpe 
should deal with the claim under the policy, shes not entitled to a refund of the premium. My final decision
  For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I uphold Miss Os complaint.
To put things right, I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:
Deal with the claim from the other driver under the contract of insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman