DRN-1562567
 
complaint
Mrs M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with RBS in 1996. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy which would have helped pay their mortgage if either of them couldnt work as a result 
of an accident, sickness or redundancy. 
Sadly, Mr M has since died. Mrs M brought a complaint to RBS about the policy. RBS 
agreed that it had mis-sold the part of the policy that applied to Mr M, because he was self-
employed when the policy was sold and it would have been difficult for him to make a 
successful claim as a result. But it didnt uphold Mrs Ms side of the complaint so Mrs M has 
brought that part of the complaint to this service.
Mrs M says that the PPI wasnt suitable for her, because she had good work benefits 
available to her
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ms complaint thought that it shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M 
disagrees, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
findings
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The mortgage and PPI were taken out over 23 years ago, so its not surprising that neither 
party has retained copies of the documents from the sale. RBS says that Mr and Mrs M 
would have been told they had a choice about buying the policy and that they would have 
completed a separate direct debit for the premiums to be taken. 
Given the time thats passed I cant safely conclude that Mr and Mrs M were led to believe 
they had to take the policy or that it was added without their consent.
RBS didnt give Mrs M a personal recommendation about the PPI so it didnt have to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was right for her. But it did need to make sure it gave her 
enough information about the policy so she could make an informed decision.
Its possible that RBS didnt give her all this information. But this doesnt mean I should 
automatically uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I have to think about whether she would have acted 
differently if she had been given all the information. I think Mrs M would likely have 
understood that the policy offered a benefit if she couldnt work, so it was up to Mrs M to 
decide whether her existing benefits were enough, even if she didnt understand the finer 
details of the policy.In any case, looking at Mrs Ms circumstances at the point of sale I dont think complete 
information would have made her act differently and not buy the policy.
I say this because:
Mrs M was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs M would have had sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to this and potentially for longer than her full sick pay would have 
lasted;
Mrs M would have been entitled to redundancy pay from her employer. But again, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this, allowing Mrs M to use any redundancy 
pay to cover other uninsured expenses;
Mrs M didnt have any savings, so Mrs Ms part of the policy offered a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. 
So I dont think Mrs M lost out as a result of anything RBS did wrong in relation to the sale of 
the PPI.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint so it follows that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
 
 
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman