DRN-3559812
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the service received from Legal & General (Unit Trust 
Managers) Limited (L&G). He says his ISA account will have restrictions placed on it due to 
the actions of L&G. He does not think he has been treated fairly.
What happened
Mr E holds a Stocks and Shares ISA with L&G. He has been a UK resident but around 16 
years ago he moved outside of the UK and still resides there now. He has been managing 
his existing funds within his ISA and has been able to switch between investments within his 
ISA.
Recently L&G took the decision to sell its personal investment business to another provider 
(Party A). The new provider, Party A, has different terms and conditions for its personal 
investment products including its ISAs. So, to manage this, L&G gave all affected parties 
including Mr E options going forward. These included transferring to the new provider (Party 
A), transferring to another provider or cashing out. It sought consent on one of the options 
from Mr E. It also said he could delay choosing an option and remain with L&G but that 
during this time, restrictions would be put on his account. 
Mr E says that if moved his ISA to Party A, he would be unable to switch between 
investments within his ISA. He says he cant transfer to another provider as other companies 
dont accept new accounts for non-UK residents. He says he doesnt want to cash out. He 
says L&G has a duty of case to act in the best interests of their customers and it is not doing 
so by taking the actions it is taking. Mr E says he is not able to manage his investments 
properly with any of the choices he has been given.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint about L&G. He concluded that L&G made a 
commercial decision to sell its personal investment business to another company and it is 
entitled to do this. He says L&G has given sufficient notice and options. He concluded L&G 
didnt do anything wrong and so he didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E did not agree and asked if it was fair for L&G to transfer administration of his funds and 
take no responsibility for what he says are the worse terms offered. He also asked if it was 
fair for it to do this knowing there are restrictions for its customers if they live abroad. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mr Es complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr E was a UK resident but then moved abroad and has been living there for 
many years. He is a non-UK resident but holds dual nationality between the country he was 
born in and the country he is currently living in. He holds investments in the UK including the 
Stocks and Shares ISA account that he currently has with L&G. He has been able to switch 
between investments within the ISA up to now. 
Mr E hasnt been able to add any contributions to his ISA since he stopped residing in the 
UK and he isnt able to open any new ISA accounts either. This is due to the rules on ISAs 
that have been set by the UK Government. 
L&G has decided to sell its personal Investments business to Party A. It has provided 
options for Mr E to consider. This includes transferring to Party A, doing so with another 
provider or cashing out.
Mr E says in reality that there are only really two options, that of transferring to Party A or 
cashing out. This is because no other parties are offering a new ISA account to non-UK 
residents. I can see within the government guidance issued that non-UK residents can 
transfer their existing ISAs to other ISA providers. But acknowledge the point Mr E is making 
that even if this is the case, the other ISA providers can choose not to accept transfer 
requests from non-UK residents. It is up to each individual business to decide whether it 
wants to accept transfers from non-UK residents or not within the terms and conditions of its 
own products. Its not something that L&G has any control over.
Mr E says transferring his ISA to Party A will result in worsening terms for him. He says he 
would be unable to switch between investments and his account would be restricted to just 
keeping the investments he has or cashing out. Im conscious though that Mr Es complaint 
is about L&G and so I need to consider whether its actions were fair and reasonable when it 
offered the options that it did to him after it agreed to sell its personal investments business. 
L&G has said it made a business decision to sell part of its business to Party A. It says it 
gave plenty of notice to Mr E and gave options to him going forward, including to stay with it 
in the short term whilst he works out what he wants to do. 
Mr E says L&G has a duty of care towards him and should act in his best interests as one of 
its customers. He asks if it is fair that L&G has done this and made the service he is going to 
receive worse. I have looked at all that L&G has done here and consider that it has not done 
anything unfair or unreasonable in its actions towards Mr E. It is entitled to make commercial 
decisions such as selling parts of its business to other providers, as it has done here. And it 
has communicated this all to Mr E within a reasonable timeframe. 
I can see that L&G has provided an explanation as to why certain finance providers dont 
offer switching services to non-UK residents, or distribute funds and this is because a 
financial business would need to have authorisation to operate in any territory outside of the 
UK, from the host country in question. I dont have any comments to make about this, but 
think it further explains, along with UK government rules on ISAs, why there are restrictions 
in place on ISA investments for non-UK residents, including in this instance, Mr E and his 
ISA account. 
So, in summary, I dont think L&G have done anything wrong here in offering the options that 
it has to him.
Im sorry that the outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr E, but after 
considering all of the information provided by both sides here, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint about Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited and 
so I dont require it to do anything further here. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman