DRN-3970508
The complaint
Company R complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus Bank 
(Cashplus) wont refund £18,000 it lost to a safe account scam in June 2022.
Mr C has brought this complaint on behalf of Company R as its director. For ease of 
reference, I will refer mostly to Mr C throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr C fell victim to a scam after he was called by someone 
purporting to be from his bank (the scammer). Mr C was told that his account had been 
compromised and that he needed to transfer his funds to a safe account as his device had 
been infected with malware. 
The scammer asked Mr C if he held accounts with any other banks, as they said he would 
need to move those funds as well. He said he had an account with Cashplus, where he was 
then under the impression that he had been put through to someone from its fraud 
department. He was subsequently instructed to move the funds held in Rs Cashplus 
account, where Mr C transferred £18,000 to another account hed been told had been set up 
in his name.
 Mr C discovered he had been scammed and reported the fraud to Cashplus. It was able to 
recover £1,461.36 which it paid back into Rs account. However, it said it would not 
reimburse the balance of £16,538.64 lost as Mr C had authorised the transaction. Mr C 
complained that this was unfair, and also said he was unhappy with the poor communication 
received. Cashplus apologised for any frustration caused by its poor handling of the matter 
and offered £50 compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr C referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that the £18,000 payment made on 7 
June 2022 ought to have flagged as unusual, and that Cashplus could have revealed the 
scam if it had intervened and spoken to Mr C. However, he also thought that Mr C should 
share liability for his loss as a result of his own contributory negligence. Both Cashplus and 
Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payment he made from Rs account to 
the scammer. The payment was requested by him using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Cashplus, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Cashplus should have done more to prevent Mr C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
Cashplus submits that the £18,000 payment would not have appeared unusual. It says that 
prior to the scam, R had received high value payments into the account, with several 
payments being over £10,000 in value. However, I dont consider payments being received 
into an account is necessarily indicative of what can be considered normal when it comes to 
money being spent from the account. It is entirely possible for it to be usual for an account to 
receive large transfers, but unusual for it to make them. 
The largest payment I can see being made from Rs account prior to the scam was for 
£9,000, which was a transfer to Mr C. So an £18,000 transfer marked a significant escalation 
in spending for the account. It was also being made to a new payee and drained the account 
of 98% of its funds. Therefore, Im satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have 
alerted a responsible regulated firm such as Cashplus that Rs account was being subjected 
to unusual and uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud 
or scam, and therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
If Cashplus had asked Mr C what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, I 
consider it likely he would have fully explained what he was doing. He wouldve explained 
that he had been instructed by Cashplus to move the money to a safe account. This would 
have put Cashplus on notice that he was at risk of financial harm, and it could have 
explained that it hadnt contacted him, and that it would never ask him to move his money to 
a safe account. If Cashplus had given such a warning, I believe that Mr C wouldnt have 
proceeded with the payment, and his loss could have been prevented. So, but for 
Cashpluss failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr C would 
probably have not lost the money from Rs account. I will therefore be asking it to reimburse 
the payment. 
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). I have duly considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mr C to bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence, which Im satisfied he 
should in this case.
Mr C says he carried out appropriate due diligence at every step of the scam. However, Im 
not persuaded that he did. It isnt clear, for example, what checks he carried out to ensure 
the callers were genuine. Mr C has said that the calls were professionally executed and 
made in highly plausible context, from a number that appeared to be genuine. He says that 
he questioned the authenticity of the caller, but just said they outlined to him that the call was 
genuine. I dont think this was enough to have reasonably believed that he was dealing with 
a genuine caller from Cashplus. Mr C hasnt said that any caller verification checks were 
carried out, for example, which you would expect from every call being made to or from a 
genuine bank. It also seems implausible to think that a bank would also know that his phone 
had been infected with trojan virus malware. 
Mr C also says the account he was transferring the money to was in his name, and he thinks 
the scammer was able to manipulate something on his screen to show this. However, Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that the recipient account was held in Mr Cs name, or that this 
would have been the name of the payee he was sending money to. So, I dont think there was enough for him to reasonably believe that this was where his money was going.  
I note that a payment Mr C had previously attempted from an account with another bank had 
also been blocked as part of the same scam prior to the payment being made from his 
Cashplus account. If he thought he was transferring money at the instruction of the bank, I 
think it ought reasonably to have given him significant cause for concern that the same bank 
then blocked the transaction it had told him to make. However, it doesnt appear that any 
Mr C acted on any of these concerns or obvious warning signs to verify who he was talking 
to, or what he was being asked to do. If he had taken further steps to verify these things, he 
would have likely discovered that he wasnt talking to Cashplus. As a result, Im satisfied that 
his negligence has contributed to his loss, such that it would be fair and reasonable for him 
to share liability with Cashplus in these circumstances. 
Compensation
Mr C says he is unhappy with the poor service he received from Cashplus and does not 
consider its offer of £50 compensation to be commensurate to the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered. Based on what Mr C has said, I can appreciate why he 
would have been frustrated. However, I have to consider that the complainant in this case is 
not Mr C himself; it is Company R. So, compensation can only be awarded based on any 
inconvenience caused to the company. I cannot make any award for distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C personally in these circumstances, as he is not the 
complainant. And having considered the likely impact and inconvenience caused to R as a 
result of Cashpluss handling of matters, Im satisfied that £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to:
Refund 50% of the outstanding amount R lost to the scam (taking into account any 
funds Cashplus was able to recover).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
Pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its handling of the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman