DRN-2931765
The complaint
Mr O complains that Ageas Insurance Limited trading as Ageas (Ageas) has unfairly refused 
to meet a claim he made after his tenants damaged his property.
What happened
There was a fire at a property Mr O lets out to tenants. It was established that the fire was 
caused by the tenants interfering with the electricity supply, which they did in order to grow 
cannabis. 
Mr O contacted Ageas and made a claim for the damage, which he said was as a result of 
his tenants maliciously damaging the property.
Ageas considered the claim, but said it wouldnt pay, because the damage was as a result of 
illegal activity, which was a valid reason for it to refuse the claim.
Mr O complained, saying the damage was malicious, but Ageas didnt change its stance.
Mr O asked us to review his complaint. Our investigator said they thought Ageas had fairly 
refused the claim as growing cannabis was an illegal activity  and as thats why the 
electricity supply had been tampered with, the claim was fairly refused. He said for it to be 
considered malicious damage the tenants would have meant to cause damage  and he 
didnt see anything that showed that intent.
Mr O disagrees, and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
As our investigator said, no policy covers every eventuality, and insurers limit their exposure 
to risk by incorporating exclusions into the terms and conditions included in the policy 
documents. 
To make a claim, a customer must first show that the damage they are claiming for  in this 
case fire damage  has occurred. Theres no doubt this damage occurred. And, unlike our 
investigator, I do think the damage was caused maliciously  because it was as a result of 
the tenants tampering with the property so they could undertake an illegal activity. However, 
I dont think that affects my decision.
I say that because, whether the damage was caused maliciously or not, if Ageas wants to 
fairly refuse the claim, it needs to show that an exclusion (a reason listed in the policy why it 
not meet the claim) applies.
Ageas is relying on a clause that says it need not meet a claim for Any loss or damage 
caused as a result of the Property being used for illegal activities.  This is a general 
exclusion listed towards the end of the policy paperwork, and it applies to the whole policy.
The property was being used to grow cannabis illegally. Thats been established through the 
fire report, and I understand the tenants were arrested at the time. Based on this, I think 
Ageas can fairly rely on the clause and say it need not meet the claim.
In summary the fire started as a result of an illegal and malicious action  by-passing the 
meter  in order to undertake another illegal activity  growing cannabis. Unfortunately for  
Mr O, I think Ageas has fairly interpreted the terms and conditions, and acted reasonably 
when it said it wouldnt meet the claim.
I understand Mr O thinks this exclusion wasnt drawn to his attention when he bought the 
policy. But, as our investigator said, Ageas didnt sell the policy  so Mr O would need to 
take this up with the broker that did sell him the cover.
My final decision
My decision is that I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman