DRN-3740413
The complaint
Mr F complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Haslam Tunstall Financial 
Services (Haslam Tunstall) in 1995 to transfer the value of his preserved benefits in his 
former employers defined benefits (DB) pension scheme to a personal pension plan 
(PPP).
What happened
Jurisdiction
Haslam Tunstall previously stated that Mr F had complained too late and his complaint 
therefore fell outside the jurisdiction of this service. One of our ombudsmen considered 
Haslam Tunstalls position but disagreed  in August 2022 he issued his decision confirming 
his opinion that this complaint had been made in time and this service was therefore able to 
consider the merits.
Merits
One of our investigators issued her detailed assessment on the merits of this complaint. I 
dont intend to repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary 
about the events that led to Mr F making this complaint.
In 1994, Haslam Tunstall advised Mr F to start a PPP so that he could invest a single 
pension contribution in connection with earlier self-employed earnings.
Between May 1993 and October 1994, Mr F was employed in the public sector and a 
member of his employers DB pension scheme. When he left that employment in 
October 1994, his benefits built up in the DB pension scheme were preserved. The 
scheme normal retirement age was 60.
After Mr F left that employment, Haslam Tunstall advised him to transfer the value of 
his preserved benefits in the DB pension scheme to the existing PPP that it had 
advised him to start in 1994. The transfer value paid to the PPP in January 1995 was 
£4,768.06. At that time Mr F was aged 39, married, in good health and had one 
financially dependent child. He was then employed by a business in the private 
sector and a member of that employers DB pension scheme.
This complaint
In 2007, Haslam Tunstall ceased to be authorised by the regulator.
During 2020, when he was 64, Mr F became concerned about the suitability of the pension 
transfer advice provided by Haslam Tunstall. He complained to one of the former partners of 
Haslam Tunstall who had advised him to transfer.
There followed an exchange of correspondence between the former partner and Mr F. 
Ultimately, the former partner didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. In summary, he stated that the 
pension transfer advice he had provided was appropriate for Mr Fs needs and, in any event, 
responsibility for the advice no longer rested with the partners of Haslam Tunstall after its 
business interests had been acquired by a different business.
Mr F submitted a claim for compensation to the Financial Service Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) about Haslam Tunstall. However, the FSCS was unable to consider Mr Fs claim. 
This was because it hadnt declared Haslam Tunstall in default because there wasnt any 
evidence to suggest that the former partners of the business were financially unable to meet 
any claims for compensation. The FSCS suggested to Mr F that he refer his complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint. She noted that there wasnt any 
documentary evidence available from the time of the advice such as a fact find document, 
illustrations, application form or report setting out the reasons for the recommendation. 
Based on the limited evidence available, she concluded that a pension transfer wasnt in       
Mr Fs best interests and was therefore unsuitable. As a result, she upheld this complaint. To 
put things right, our investigator recommended that Haslam Tunstall calculate and pay any 
redress due to Mr F in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on 
how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that he would be a 
20% income taxpayer in retirement. 
While Mr F accepted our investigators assessment of the merits, the former partner of 
Haslam Tunstall didnt. He provided substantial comments in response about why he 
considered that this complaint shouldnt be upheld on the merits. Our investigator considered 
those additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change her assessment and 
recommended outcome. Since agreement couldnt be reached, she said that this complaint 
would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked Mr F to confirm, in the event 
this complaint is upheld by an ombudsman, whether he preferred redress to be calculated on 
the current methodology or the updated guidance to come into effect. Mr F confirmed that he 
would prefer to wait for this complaint to be settled in line with the new guidance and rules 
when they come into effect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time. 
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties to this complaint. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the 
evidence afresh including comments in response to our investigators assessment on the 
merits. Im content that Haslam Tunstall has been provided sufficient time and opportunity to 
comment on the merits of this complaint and to provide any documentary evidence it would 
like this service to consider.Responsibility for the advice complained about
In its response to this complaint, one of Haslam Tunstalls former partners confirmed that  
as a representative of Haslam Tunstall  he provided the pension transfer advice to Mr F 
about which he has complained. So theres no dispute regarding who advised Mr F to 
transfer. 
At the time of the advice Haslam Tunstall was set up as a partnership. A partnership is a 
number of individuals joined together in business for profit. The former partner previously 
expressed his view that responsibility for the advice about which Mr F has complained no 
longer rested with the partners of Haslam Tunstall after its business interests had been 
acquired by a different business. However, this service hasnt been provided any evidence 
that shows this.
I think its worth noting that, in a partnership, each partner is personally and fully liable for 
anything done by the business and its employees while they are a partner. That's because 
the financial business has no separate legal existence, even if it has its own trading name. 
The partners normally remain jointly and severally liable for what was done while they were 
a partner, even after they have stopped working and are no longer authorised by the 
regulator. Liability for advice isnt normally transferred to a different person or legal entity 
even where a partner leaves the business, or the business ceases trading, is sold or turned 
into a limited company. So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the former partners of 
Haslam Tunstall at the relevant time remain responsible for the advice about which Mr F has 
complained.
The FSCS previously told Mr F that it hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that the former 
partners of Haslam Tunstall were financially unable to meet any claims for compensation. 
The FSCSs response supports my view that responsibility for the advice rests with the 
former partners of Haslam Tunstall.
Regulatory rules and expectations
At the time of the pension transfer in 1995, Haslam Tunstall had a general duty to act in                
Mr Fs best interests and to provide a suitable recommendation to him. It was also a 
requirement that it carry out a transfer value analysis to determine the financial viability of 
the proposed pension transfer and to take this into account when assessing suitability.
My findings
The DB pension scheme provided a guaranteed lifetime income. The pension provided from 
the scheme normal retirement age of 60 was based on Mr Fs final salary, pensionable 
service and benefit accrual rate. Since it was a public sector DB pension scheme, the 
pension would increase every year  both in deferment and in payment  in line with 
changes to the Retail Price Index (RPI) to protect against inflation. All the risks associated 
with providing the guaranteed and revalued pension income rested with Mr Fs former 
employer.
In contrast, the transfer to the PPP led to the loss of the guaranteed income. Instead, the 
pension income Mr F would receive in retirement would be based on the investment 
performance achieved over the 21-year term and the annuity rates applicable at retirement. 
The investment, inflation and mortality risks were transferred from the former employer to             
Mr F.
Limited documentary evidence has been provided to this service. No document from the time has been provided that shows what Mr Fs objectives were at the time he was advised. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, as it is in this case, I base 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think its fair to say that Mr F likely agreed 
with the recommendation to transfer because Haslam Tunstall led him to believe that the 
PPP would provide a higher level of pension income in retirement than the DB pension 
scheme  given that Mr F was aged 39 at the time, married and in good health, I think its 
unlikely that there were any other key drivers for the transfer at that time.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) rules applied at the time Haslam Tunstall advised Mr F 
to transfer. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age. 
Neither party has been able to provide to this service details of any transfer value analysis 
carried out at the time  so its unclear what the critical yield was. 
This service has access to the 'discount rates' published by the regulator for use in loss 
assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review that was carried out in the 
1990s. The discount rate applicable to this case was 10.4% for the 21-year term to 
retirement from January 1995. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate 
at the time for illustrations was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and the lower projection 
rate 6%. 
So it seems to me that Mr F wouldve been required to adopt a medium-high to high risk 
approach to investment over the 21-year term to match the relinquished benefits under the 
DB pension scheme, let alone exceed them. I havent seen any evidence that indicates Mr F 
had such an attitude to risk regarding his preserved benefits. Taking everything into account, 
its my view that the PPP was likely to provide benefits of a materially lower overall value 
than the DB pension scheme.
At age 39, he was relatively young at the time of and was over 20 years away from the 
scheme normal retirement age of 60 under the DB pension scheme. I havent seen any 
contemporaneous evidence that he wanted to retire earlier. Given the substantial investment 
timeframe, I think it wouldve been very difficult at the time to predict with any degree of 
certainty what Mr Fs retirement income and capital lump sum needs would be at age 60. 
Transferring to the PPP led to Mr F relinquishing guaranteed, increasing income for life. I 
cant see, given his circumstances, that he wouldve wanted to take any significant degree of 
risk with the benefits hed accrued. I recognise that the transfer to the PPP wouldve enabled 
Mr F to take his benefits in a different format. But he couldnt access the benefits until at 
least age 50 (based on the PPP rules at that time) and so, in my view, there wasnt any 
compelling reason for him to make a decision to transfer at that time.
In responding to this complaint, the former partner of Haslam Tunstall made significant 
comment about Mr Fs employment status at the time he advised him to transfer. He stated 
that Mr F was self-employed. But Mr F has provided evidence to this service that indicates 
he was employed at the time of the transfer. Im not sure why so much comment has been 
made about Mr Fs employment status. I say this because, regardless of whether he was 
employed or self-employed, its my view that maintaining preserved benefits in the DB 
pension scheme was in Mr Fs best interests. I dont think transferring to a PPP or an 
alternative DB pension scheme, which likely had limited rates of revaluation and escalation 
compared to the full inflation protection under the public sector DB pension scheme, 
wouldve led to a better outcome for Mr F. So I dont think its necessary to get to the bottom of Mr Fs employment status at the time for me to be able to decide this complaint. 
If properly informed, would Mr F have transferred anyway?
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was in Mr Fs
best interests. So I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Haslam Tunstalls advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr F, if 
placed in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of 
his preserved benefits to the PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many
factors which Mr F, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view that he was
heavily reliant on Haslam Tunstall, as the professional party in the transaction, to take those
factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice. Given Mr Fs reliance on
Haslam Tunstall, I think its unlikely, on balance, he wouldve transferred against its advice 
had it advised him to maintain his preserved benefits.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Haslam Tunstall to put Mr F, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator in that Mr F wouldve maintained his preserved benefits 
in the DB pension scheme had he been properly advised.
For clarity, it isnt necessary for this service to identify and communicate with each of the 
former partners of Haslam Tunstall. The former partner who has engaged in this complaint 
process and provided a final response on the matter may wish to engage the other former 
partners of Haslam Tunstall to recover from them a share of any compensation and costs 
incurred in resolving this complaint  that would be a separate process that sits outside the 
immediate resolution of this complaint.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects businesses to continue to calculate and offer 
compensation using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect businesses should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
Our investigator previously asked Mr F whether he preferred any redress to be calculated 
now in line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. 
He confirmed that he would prefer to wait for this complaint to be settled in line with the new 
guidance and rules when they come into effect. The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in had the business advised 
them to maintain preserved benefits in the DB pension scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs 
consultation and policy statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to 
compensate Mr F.
Haslam Tunstall must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology 
as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).   
For clarity, had Mr F maintained benefits in the DB pension scheme, he wouldve taken 
benefits at the normal retirement age which I understand was 60. So compensation should 
be based on him taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, the loss assessment should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into 
effect.
Haslam Tunstall may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Fs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the DB pension scheme on Mr Fs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Fs PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should
be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr F within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB pension transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and 
Haslam Tunstall has received notification of Mr Fs acceptance of this final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date any changes to DB pension transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect 
to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Haslam Tunstall to 
pay Mr F. Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual 
time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Haslam Tunstall deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Haslam Tunstall should give  
Mr F a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so that he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Haslam Tunstall 
Financial Services to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Haslam Tunstall Financial Services to pay Mr F any interest on 
that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Haslam Tunstall Financial Services to pay Mr F any interest 
as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Haslam Tunstall Financial Services pays Mr F the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F. If Mr F accepts 
this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Haslam Tunstall Financial 
Services. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can 
accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Haslam Tunstall Financial Services to redress Mr F as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman