DRN-2239770
The complaint
Mr K believes Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118118 Money, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan hed applied for.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr K took out a £1,000 loan with Madison, to be repaid over 24 months with 
repayments of £77.15 a month.
Mr K has complained that Madison didnt act responsibly when approving the loan, and that 
it wasnt affordable when all of his circumstances were taken into consideration. Hes said 
hes now got further into debt, had to take out other loans, and is now in a debt management 
plan. Madison didnt agree they acted irresponsibly, so Mr K has brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Madison carried out a credit search and asked Mr K for details of 
his income and expenditure at the time of the application. But Madison havent been able to 
provide us with those income and expenditure details. 
So she looked at Mr Ks bank statements for the three months leading up to the application. 
And these showed Mr K had a disposable income of £765 a month, after paying his rent, 
regular bills, existing debt repayments and the loan to Madison. She also said that the credit 
search didnt show any recent adverse entries, and that Mr K had maintained all of his 
payments for the previous three years.
Because of this, the investigator didnt think Madison had acted irresponsibly when agreeing 
the loan Mr K applied for. And she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that the regular bills figure the investigator 
used was wrong, and that my active accounts included several short term loans were on my 
credit report and were taken out in short period of time clearly indicating that I had trouble 
managing money. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Madison have said Mr K applied for the loan online. The application was reviewed within 
their automated system, assessed by a scorecard, and finally manually reviewed by an 
underwriter before the decision to approve the loan was made.
Ive seen a copy of the paperwork Madison checked at the time they approved Mr Ks loan, 
which shows hed declared an income of £2,243 a month. The credit check confirmed Mr K 
had three loan payments totalling £320 a month, and a total of £5,310 outstanding on credit 
cards and a mail order account. Madison have said they calculated that Mr K was paying 
£511.25 a month for his credit commitments. Which would mean they used a minimum 
payment of 3.6% for the credit cards and mail order. Which I dont think was unreasonable.
Madison have also said Mr K told them his share of the rent was £240 a month, and they 
allowed 25% of his declared income - £560.80  for regular bills and other outgoings. Which 
meant that, after paying Madisons loan payment of £77.15, Mr K would have a monthly 
disposable income of £931.15.
The credit search shows that Mr K had maintained all of his payments for at least three 
years. It also shows two defaults in 2013, thatd both been satisfied in 2014. I dont think two 
defaults satisfied five years ago is enough to say that Madison shouldnt have lent any 
money to Mr K, as he was maintaining all current payments and there was ample disposable 
income after everything had been taken into consideration.
Mr K has said that he had taken out short term loans before he applied to Madison, which 
shows he was struggling with his finances. But the credit report Ive seen doesnt show he 
was struggling. And Ive seen nothing to show me that Mr K made Madison aware of any 
additional loans that didnt show on his credit file or hadnt been declared as part of the 
income and expenditure calculations.
The only way Madison could be aware of these additional loans is if they were on the credit 
report or if Mr K told them. So I cant say that Madison have done anything wrong by not 
taking into consideration things they werent aware of at the time.
Because the income and expenditure details that Madison took from Mr K isnt available, Ive 
also considered Mr Ks bank statements from 18 September 2018 to 29 January 2019  the 
period just before he took out the loan.
The bank statements show Mr K had a monthly income between £1,808.40 and £2,030.28. 
He paid £414.88 for his regular credit commitments. And his rent and household bills came 
to £1,191.59 (including the gas and electricity payments Mr K subsequently provided proof 
of). But Mr K only paid half of these household bills - £595.80  his partner paid the other 
half, and this is shown on the bank statements Ive seen.
So, based on Mr Ks minimum monthly income, less his household bills and regular credit 
commitments, he would have £797.72 a month disposable income each month. And 
Madisons loan payment was £77.15. So I think the loan was affordable.
Ive noted the bank statements show some use of short-term lending, and that Mr K was also 
always in his overdraft (although he kept within his overdraft limit). But Madison didnt see 
the bank statements. So it was reasonable for them to rely on what they did see, the credit 
file, as their calculations showed Mr K could afford the loan. And, if Madison had seen the bank statements, I think they wouldve still lent to Mr K  - they 
dont indicate that the loan was unaffordable or that Mr K wouldve struggled to maintain 
payments. Because of all of this, Im satisfied the checks Madison did when approving Mr 
Ks loan were reasonable and proportionate. And I dont think that the lending was 
irresponsible or unaffordable at the time. So I wont be asking Madison to refund any 
payments, charges or interest.
But Mr K is in financial difficulties and struggling to repay the loan. So Id expect Madison to 
deal with these circumstances fairly and sympathetically, and look to arrange a payment 
plan thats affordable for Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Madison CF UK 
Limited trading as 118118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman