DRN-2348692
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
Although Mr and Mrs P say they were sold the PPI during a meeting, it seems it was 
actually arranged by phone. BoS has provided screenshots to confirm this. BoS isnt able 
to provide a copy of this call or  this is unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale
that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ps comments alongside what we know in general about 
how BoS sold PPI at the time and the paperwork we have from the time of sale. 
BoS has provided sales script it expected its advisers to follow. Within this the adviser is 
prompted to explain the optional nature of the PPI. I havent seen anything to suggest 
this wasnt explained to Mr and Mrs P. I can also see from the paperwork that was 
completed at the time that it was decided Mrs P would be covered only. This implies 
there was a discussion about the cover and Mr and Mrs Ps needs. Taking everything 
into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P knew the policy was optional and 
they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. I can see a demands and needs statement was completed at the time, indicating 
that there was some consideration of Mr and Mrs Ps individual needs. The policy 
covered Mrs P only and the evidence about her circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs P was eligible for the 
cover and it covered her for unemployment only. Although Mrs P says she wouldve 
received redundancy pay from her employer at the time, the policy wouldve paid out 
alongside this. So I still think Mr and Mrs P had a need for the PPI and it wouldve been 
useful for them if Mrs P was made redundant. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ps employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Mrs P has told us about health conditions she had at the time of 
sale. However, as the policy only covered Mrs P for unemployment these wouldnt have 
been something that wouldve affected Mrs Ps ability to claim under this aspect of the 
policy.  
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs P as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs P would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, this wouldnt have been an issue for Mr and Mrs P as the policy was set up to 
cover Mrs P for unemployment only, meaning these restrictions wouldnt have been 
applicable.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have referred to the commission they paid as part of their premium in their 
most recent correspondence. As explained by the adjudicator, the rules concerning 
commission only apply to certain types of credit agreements. Mr and Mrs P were sold a 
regulated mortgage and the rules dont apply to these types of agreements. 
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman