DRN-3940235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they should have been advised not to apply for a joint mortgage 
as Nationwides mortgage adviser ought to have known they would be unsuccessful.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P obtained a decision in principle for a mortgage with Nationwide on 9 May 
2022. Mrs P wanted to speak to a mortgage adviser to check whether a debt management 
plan (DMP) that Mr P had paid off in January 2022 would prevent them from having an 
application approved.
On 28 June 2022 Mrs P discussed this with a mortgage adviser and during this call she 
asked the adviser about the impact of Mr Ps DMP  the adviser explained the application 
would be referred to an underwriter but because its been paid off, there was a reason for the 
DMP and they arent in financial hardship while this will be looked at theres nothing saying 
to me dont even bother.
Mr and Mrs Ps application was subsequently declined on the basis that there had been 
insufficient time since Mr Ps DMP ended. And that Nationwide would be looking for three 
years to have passed following a DMP ceasing.
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that they now have a record of this declined application on their 
credit files. They say Nationwide should have advised them not to apply given the 
information theyd disclosed. They think this will affect future applications for lending at a 
time when interest rates are rising.
Nationwide responded that it was Mr and Mrs Ps decision to apply for the mortgage and that 
the DMP wouldnt have caused the application to automatically decline. It paid Mrs P £50 
compensation in relation to its complaints handling.
When Mr and Mrs P complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. In 
summary they thought Nationwide had confirmed that with a declared DMP the application 
would have declined without being referred to an underwriter. And so, they didnt think 
Nationwide should have advised Mr and Mrs P to make a mortgage application in the 
circumstances. They recommended Nationwide remove the credit search from Mr and 
Mrs Ps credit files and pay them £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Nationwide accepted this outcome and so did Mr and Mrs P. But Mr and Mrs P asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and noted that Nationwide hadnt sent them a 
copy of their records as requested.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. This is for similar reasons to the investigator 
and Ill be brief in my reasoning as both parties have accepted the investigators 
recommendation on how to put matters right  which I also think is a fair resolution to this 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs P were open about their financial history and did declare at an early 
stage that Mr P had previously had a DMP which he paid off in January 2022.
Nationwides mortgage adviser was aware of this (DMP) when they recommended 
the mortgage Mr and Mrs P applied for. 
The application was declined on the basis that Mr Ps DMP was repaid too recently, 
and that Nationwide would want to see three years of financial activity following the 
end of a DMP. 
Nationwide has since told our service that had a DMP been declared then the 
application would have been declined without referral to an underwriter. It hasnt 
gone into more detail about this, but it appears to be accepting that a DMP within the 
previous three years would prevent applications from being approved. And so, by 
implication, that its adviser ought not to have recommended the mortgage they did.
We cant now know whether Mrs P would have been successful if shed applied for a 
mortgage in her sole name, as Mr P would still have been financially linked to her. 
Nor do I have evidence that the record of this application has directly impacted any 
other mortgage applications Mr and/or Mrs P made or intended to make.
I agree a fair way to put matters right is to remove any record of this application from 
Mr and Mrs Ps credit file and to pay them a small amount of compensation to 
recognise the disappointment and time spent progressing this application.
I note Mrs P has said Nationwide hasnt provided the records shes asked for and 
she is concerned its hiding something. Im satisfied our service has been provided 
with the information we need from Nationwide in order for me to reach a fair outcome 
in the circumstances. If Mrs P wishes to complain about the non-receipt of 
information requested, she can raise this directly with Nationwide in the first instance.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained I think Nationwide should remove any record of Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage application in 2022 from their credit files and pay them £75 compensation. This is 
separate from the £50 it has already paid them in relation to complaints handling  which for 
clarity does not form part of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should remove any record of Mr and 
Mrs Ps mortgage application in 2022 from their credit files and pay them a total of £75 
compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman