DRN-3078000
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited delayed handling his claim 
under his life assurance policy and settled his claim unfairly.
What happened
In 2017, Mr C took out a joint life assurance policy (with critical illness cover) with his then-
partner, who Ill refer to as Mr N. The policys sum assured was £200,000. 
Sadly, Mr N passed away towards the end of 2018. Mr C contacted Scottish Friendly to 
make a claim under the policy. Scottish Friendly began its process of validating Mr Cs claim. 
There were some delays in obtaining information about Mr Cs medical history and 
information about his cause of death because Mr C was not Mr Ns next of kin.  
Scottish Friendly was eventually able to determine that a claim for the sum assured was 
payable by July 2019.
But Scottish Friendly also received a letter from the executors of Mr Ns estate (who did not 
include Mr C). The executors claimed the estate was the rightful beneficiary of the policys 
sum assured. After Mr C became aware of the executors claim, he contacted 
Scottish Friendly for updates about the progress it was making in deciding who should 
receive the policys sum assured. Scottish Friendly told Mr C it couldnt provide any 
timescales about when it would settle the claim. Mr C had already engaged solicitors to help 
him deal with matters arising from Mr Cs estate, and now needed their help to deal with the 
executors claim.
By September 2020, the claim was still not settled and Mr C complained to Scottish Friendly 
that it hadnt explained properly what was happening with the claim or when it would be 
resolved. In its final response to Mr Cs complaint, Scottish Friendly apologised for the level 
of service hed received. Scottish Friendlys letter said the claim had been referred onto its 
legal team who were investigating the claim, and could not provide an exact timeframe as to 
when it would reach a decision about who the policys sum assured should be paid to.
Unhappy with Scottish Friendlys response, Mr C referred his complaint to our service. And 
by April 2021, Mr C and the executors of Mr Ns estate reached a legal agreement that Mr C 
would receive the policys sum assured, and would arrange for a small proportion of this to 
be paid to Mr Ns estate. After receiving confirmation of this agreement, Scottish Friendly 
paid Mr C the policys sum assured of £200,000 plus some interest on 28 April 2021. 
Scottish Friendly offered Mr C £750 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C outlined the legal costs he incurred in trying to resolve the dispute with the executors of 
Mr Ns estate to our investigator. He remained unhappy with how Scottish Friendly handled 
his claim, and highlighted instances where he believed Scottish Friendly didnt handle his 
personal data properly. Having considered the evidence available, our investigator didnt 
think Scottish Friendly handled Mr Cs claim in a reasonable timeframe. 
Our investigator noted Scottish Friendly received legal advice in September 2019, which 
recommended it try to obtain more information regarding the intentions of Mr C and Mr N 
when taking out the policy as to who the policy should benefit if one of them needed to make 
a claim. But our investigator didnt think Scottish Friendly had shown it took reasonable steps 
to try determine who should receive the policys sum assured. Because of this, our 
investigator recommended Scottish Friendly should pay interest at 8% simple per annum 
from the first date he thought Scottish Friendly could have settled the claim. Our investigator 
thought this date was 11 September 2019, when Scottish Friendly received legal advice 
about how to handle the claim. Our investigator said interest at 8% simple per annum should 
be applied until the date the sum assured was paid.
Our investigator didnt think Scottish Friendly needed to pay Mr Cs costs involved with 
settling the legal dispute with Mr Ns estate as he thought the nature of the dispute meant 
Mr C would likely have always incurred some legal costs in dealing with a court to settle the 
matter. But our investigator noted the trouble and upset caused by the way Scottish Friendly 
handled Mr Cs claim and recommended it pay him £900 compensation. 
Mr C accepted our investigators recommendations but Scottish Friendly did not. It said it 
only received notice of the legal agreement between Mr C and Mr Ns estate in April 2021, 
and it paid the sum assured to Mr C on 28 April 2021. Scottish Friendly said it could not have 
been expected to resolve a legal dispute between Mr C and Mr Ns estate and the intention 
of the policy holders entering into the policy was not for it to determine. Scottish Friendly 
didnt accept it delayed payment of the sum assured so wouldnt agree to pay interest as 
recommended by our investigator. It did agree to pay Mr C £900 compensation. So this has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The joint policy held by Mr C and Mr N did not name who was to benefit from the sum 
assured if either Mr C or Mr N made a claim for the death or critical illness of either party. 
The policy doesnt set out that the surviving policy holder will automatically receive the sum 
assured following the death of the other. Instead, the policy says:
The insurer will only pay the claim when it has received proof of the death and 
appropriate confirmation confirming that the person claiming is legally entitled to do 
so.
The insurer will pay the sum assured to the person who is legally entitled to it.
Scottish Friendly received notice Mr C was not one of the executors of Mr Ns estate  but 
this didnt automatically mean he wasnt legally entitled to make his claim; There was a 
legitimate question to be answered over who should receive the policys sum assured. 
Scottish Friendly sought its own legal advice. The advice, dated 11 September 2019, said:Given that the policy documentation is unclear it would be advisable for Scottish 
Friendly (SF) to take care in determining who is legally entitled to receive the pay-
out. 
Scottish Friendly was advised it could end up in the position where both parties disagree 
about facts and legal position regarding the intentions of Mr C and Mr N when taking out the 
policy, leaving Scottish Friendly in the position where it would be required to make the 
decision about who should receive the sum assured. The advice recommended 
Scottish Friendly seek further information from Mr C and the executors of Mr Ns estate 
about the intentions of both parties when taking out the policy. Given this is advice it 
received from its own legal representatives, I dont accept Scottish Friendlys assertion to our 
investigator that it could not be expected to investigate the intentions of the policy holders or 
make efforts to determine who should receive the policys sum assured. 
It appears Scottish Friendly decided not to follow the advice of its legal representatives to 
take steps to determine the intention of the policy holders when they bought the policy or to 
resolve the dispute between Mr C and the estate of Mr N. And I dont think Scottish Friendly 
has provided evidence to show it explained to Mr C clearly that it didnt intend to take steps 
to try to determine who should receive the sum assured. Instead, Scottish Friendly took 
action only after Mr C and the executors of Mr Ns estate reached a legal agreement 
between themselves. For these reasons, I dont think Scottish Friendly took reasonable 
steps to resolve Mr Cs claim. Because of this, I think interest at 8% simple per annum 
should be paid to Mr C from the date the claim was payable until the date of settlement, 
which I think reflects fairly the cost of Mr C being deprived of the sum assured. 
And I think the investigators recommendation that interest at 8% simple be calculated from 
11 September 2019 is a reasonable one  this is the date on which I think Scottish Friendly 
was advised to take action to settle the dispute, and Ive not seen evidence it took 
reasonable steps to do so. Interest at 8% simple is payable until the sum assured was paid 
on 28 April 2021. Scottish Friendly paid Mr C a small interest payment during this period  I 
think its fair to deduct this from the interest payment Ive directed Scottish Friendly to make. 
Scottish Friendly accepted our investigators recommendation it pay Mr C £900 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this complaint. Its clear Mr C has been 
unhappy with a number of aspects of Scottish Friendlys claim handling. Having considered 
the evidence available, I agree with our investigator that £900 reflects fairly the substantial 
impact caused by Scottish Friendlys actions.
Putting things right
To put things right, Scottish Friendly should:
Pay Mr C interest at 8% simple per annum on the policys sum assured from 
11 September 2019 until 28 April 2021  deducting interest its already paid Mr C 
during this period.
Pay Mr C £900 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its handling of his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited to put things right as Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman