DRN-3519352
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly registered a default on 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr Q had a Halifax credit card. Mr Q lost his job due to the pandemic and he was unable to 
make payments to his credit card account. When Mr Q was able to go back to work, he says 
he saved up and he managed to pay the outstanding credit card balance. He later checked 
his credit file, only to find out that Halifax had registered a default. Mr Q made a complaint to 
Halifax.
Halifax did not uphold the complaint. They said that they sent Mr Q a default notice on 26 
October 2020, which advised him of his intention to register a default on his credit file if they 
didnt receive a payment to bring his account up to date. Halifax also said that they sent him 
a final arrears letter on 27 November 2020. They said as they didnt receive a response from 
Mr Q, the account was closed. Halifax said that they are legally required to report accurate 
information to credit reference agencies, so as his default had been applied correctly, they 
were unable to remove this for him.
Mr Q brought his complaint to our service. He said that he did not receive these letters from 
Halifax. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Qs complaint. He said that the last payment that 
Mr Q made to his card was in July 2020 and he made no further payments to the account 
prior to the account defaulting in March 2021. Our investigator said that Mr Q should have 
contacted Halifax to let them know of the difficulty he was in, but as Mr Q did not do this, 
Halifax had done nothing wrong in taking the action that they did.
Our investigator said that Halifax sent Mr Q arrears notices when he first started missing 
payments on his accounts. He said that when Mr Q was three months in arrears, Halifax 
enclosed a default notice which told Mr Q that they would place a default on his credit file if 
he didnt contact them to make an arrangement or make the repayment. Our investigator 
said that Mr Q did not make any contact with Halifax until 15 February 2021, when he 
completed his income and expenditure details, but this revealed Mr Q had no income and so 
no plan could be set up for him. As Mr Q told Halifax that he was to receive income shortly, 
they agreed a one month hold on the account, but as Mr Q did not contact them or make any 
further payments, Halifax defaulted the account on 25 March 2021.
Mr Q asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said Halifax did not send him 
any post to his house during lockdown and when lockdown ended he contacted Halifax 
straight away. He said he wanted to buy a house but the default would stay on his credit file 
for six years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. A notice of default was issued to Mr Q on 24 October 2020, as it had been three
months since Halifax received a payment from him. I know Mr Q says that he did not receive 
the letters Halifax sent him, but the address on the letters match up to what Mr Q told us his 
address is, so Im satisfied that Halifax did send these letters. And I wouldnt be able to hold 
Halifax responsible for any issues with the postal system as this would be outside of their 
control.
This letter was followed up by another letter which Halifax also sent to Mr Q. From this 
information, I can see that the letter was dated 27 November 2020. This letter was 
addressed to Mr Qs registered address also and told him it was not too late for them to help 
him with his account. Halifax then sent Mr Q another letter on 30 December 2020 which said 
they would be ending his agreement soon and they could still help him. This letter was also 
addressed to his registered address. 
Mr Q did contact Halifax on 15 February 2021. This was before his account actually 
defaulted. But the system notes of the call show that Mr Q was not working and he was not 
getting any income at all. So Im not persuaded that Mr Q could have avoided the default, 
even if he would have received the letters that Halifax had sent him as he had no income to 
make an arrangement with them. 
Ive considered that Mr Q told Halifax on this call, that he was hopeful that he could return to 
work at the end of March and that he would be busy, so Halifax had put in place a one 
month zero payment temporary plan to start on 15 February 2021. But Halifaxs notes show 
that Mr Q did not contact them before the plan had expired so they defaulted the account on 
25 March 2021. 
Im satisfied that Halifax were fair to do this here as they could have defaulted the account 
earlier (from three months in arrears) but the account was eight months in arrears when they 
did do this. Mr Qs financial circumstances did not appear to have improved in this time 
period as evidenced by the lack of payments made to the account and him telling Halifax he 
had no income a month prior to the account defaulting.
Mr Q rang Halifax on 29 March. He wanted to set up a plan on his account and he said that 
he would call back to make payments of £25 a month, but the notes state that the call 
handler had told Mr Q that the account had defaulted. And I can see that he did ring up the 
following month and tell Halifax that he wanted to make a payment, but Halifax informed him 
they had passed the debt to a third party debt collection company. 
It's clear to me what a difficult time Mr Q has been through and is going through here. Hes 
clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with his finances at a very tough time. Mr Q says that 
he has saved up and paid off the balance of the credit card now. So although I wont be 
asking Halifax to remove the default, if Mr Q has paid off the full outstanding balance, the 
default should now be marked as satisfied on his credit report. If this is not marked as 
satisfied, then Mr Q may wish to get in touch with the credit reference agencies and/or the 
third party debt collection agency to amend his credit file to reflect this.
In addition, Mr Q may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the credit 
reference agencies to explain what happened during the timeframe in question. This is a 
short explanatory note that he can add to an entry on his credit file, to explain the 
background to that entry. So anyone who searches his credit report, such as a mortgage 
lender, would see the notice of correction and take the notice into account if they viewed his 
credit file. Mr Q would need to contact the CRAs to do this.
In summary, in order to ask Halifax to remove the default, I would need to see that they hadregistered the default incorrectly. But as the account was in arrears for several months and
they had sent letters to Mr Qs registered address with the implications of this and what
would happen, including notices of defaults, then Im satisfied that Halifax acted in the
circumstances as I would expect them to, especially when Mr Q had no income to make an 
arrangement with them before the account defaulted. I understand this decision may have 
an impact on Mr Q getting a mortgage in the future, so I havent made this decision lightly, 
and I commend him on the actions he took in paying this debt off when he was back to work, 
but it follows I dont require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman