DRN-3294712
The complaint
Miss L complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) is incorrectly 
claiming that that there is a balance outstanding on a loan she took out.
What happened
In 2018, Miss L took out a loan with LCCU. The agreement said she would need to make 28 
payments of £80, the total amount payable was £2,160.25 and the final payment would be 
on 29 June 2020.
In June 2020, Miss L reviewed her account  and although she had made 27 of the 
payments due to the loan, LCCUs online statement showed that she had £339.56 left to 
pay. Miss L considers this is incorrect. Although there have been some late payments, she 
has made 27 payments of £80 (£2,160) plus a further £10 a month to a savings account.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that LCCU had not 
responded to requests for information from us. She said that LCCU should write off the 
remaining balance of the loan and pay Miss L £100 for any distress and inconvenience.
LCCU responded to say that Miss L paid a total of £2,179 but that she missed three 
payments  and £10 fees were applied because of that. It said it calculated the current 
balance to be £198.29. the investigator sought clarification from LCCU but it hasnt 
responded. 
Miss L responded to say that she had a savings balance with LCCU but she was 
experiencing problems in accessing her money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take 
account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
LCCU has failed to provide all of the information the investigator has requested. When it did 
respond, the information it provided was insufficiently detailed to explain why the balance of 
the loan had increased by as much as it has.
When Miss L took out the loan, the agreement was that she would make payments totalling 
£2,160.25. I note that there is a discrepancy on the agreement as 28 payments of £80 totals 
£2,240.
I am satisfied that Ms L has made 27 payments of £80 totalling £2,160. It isnt in dispute that 
Miss L has missed some payments  but always made those payments up soon afterwards. 
LCCU has charged three unpaid direct debut fees of £10  in August 2019, March 2020 and 
June 2020. I accept the August 2019 and March 2020 were applied fairly. I dont consider 
the June 2020 fee was fair  as this was applied after Miss L had queried the balance with 
LCCU. On the face of it, and without any evidence to the contrary, it doesnt appear that a 
full payment was due. 
Further, LCCU has not provided a reasonable explanation why the balance of the loan has 
risen to £198.29. Even taking into account additional interest on the late payments, the fees 
and the relatively high interest rate, it is difficult to see how the balance could be as high as 
that.
The investigator pointed out the relevant parts of the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
state that a lender must not ignore or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been 
settled or disputed without providing clear evidence as to why the customers claim is not 
valid.
LCCU has also failed to recognise that Miss L is vulnerable and its lack of a reasonable 
response will have caused Miss L some distress. In the individual circumstances of this 
complaint I agree with the investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for LCCU to write 
off the balance of Miss Ls loan as it has not been able to explain why the balance is as high 
a sit is. It should also pay her £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its lack of 
engagement has caused to her.
I note Miss Ls point about the balance in the savings account. But as that matter was not 
raised as a complaint with us initially, I cant deal with that point here. Id hope LCCU would 
be able to sort that out easily without the need for another complaint from Miss L. But if it 
doesnt Miss L can refer that complaint to us.
My final decision
London Community Credit Union Limited should:
Write off Miss Ls loan in full.
Write to her to confirm it has done this.
Pay Miss L £100 directly for any distress and inconvenience.
London Community Credit Union Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Miss L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman