DRN-4436933
The complaint
Miss P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost as a result 
of a scam. 
Miss P has used a professional representative to bring this complaint to our service and they 
have made submissions on her behalf. For consistency, Ill refer to Miss P throughout.
What happened
Miss P was tricked into making 19 payments totalling £19,758.24 from her Monzo account to 
other accounts in her own name, then on to a scammer. Miss P also received returns to her 
Monzo account totalling £228. Her outstanding loss is £19,530.24.
In October 2022, Miss P was contacted on a social media platform about an opportunity to 
make money. Unbeknown to Miss P, she was speaking with a scammer. Miss P understood 
the scammer to be from a tech company (that Ill call T) offering an opportunity for Miss P to 
invest funds and earn an instant profit. Miss P registered her interest and was sent follow up 
contact through a different social media platform. She says the scammer explained she 
would make payments towards advertisements of holiday destinations around the world. 
Miss P had to click on different destinations on a website to raise awareness and in turn 
generate profit. Miss P has described it as both an investment and job opportunity, but it 
seems more likely to have been the latter. 
The scammer helped Miss P open an account on their platform (that Ill call L), which Miss P 
felt looked legitimate. She started with a payment of £15.40 on 2 October from Monzo to her 
own account with another bank, and from there on to the scammer. Miss P says she got £86 
back in 24 hours so she proceeded to make further payments between 18 October and 
29 October. During this time, the scammer instructed Miss P to open another account with 
an electronic money institution (EMI). So, some of the payments went from Monzo to the 
EMI account, and from there to the scammer. 
When Miss P tried to withdraw her funds, the scammer said she needed to pay a withdrawal 
fee. Miss P wasnt expecting to pay this and didnt want to proceed. At this point the 
scammer became aggressive and she realised shed been scammed.
Miss P contacted Monzo on 4 March 2023. It contacted the EMI Miss P sent her funds to the 
same day, but no funds remained. Monzo declined to refund Miss P because:
- Miss P sent the funds to her own accounts, so these were not scam payments. The 
fraudulent payments were sent on by Miss P, from the two accounts she paid from 
her Monzo account. The loss therefore did not occur from the payments made from 
Monzo.
- The payments were authorised and executed in accordance with Miss Ps 
instructions.
- Miss P didnt take reasonable steps before making the payments. 
- The payments were not out of character for Miss P. 
Miss P thinks Monzo ought to have warned her about the payments she was making, so she 
referred her complaint to our service and our Investigator upheld it. They recommended 
Monzo refund 50% of Miss Ps outstanding loss from and including payment 17, together 
with 8% simple interest from the date of debit to reimbursement. They thought Monzo ought 
to have contacted Miss P to verify the unusual activity and in doing so, likely would have 
uncovered the scam. But Miss P had also acted with contributory negligence so she should 
share liability. 
Miss P accepted the recommendations, but Monzo didnt. It maintains it cant be held liable 
for losses which occurred on external accounts and argues theres no such guidance in 
place which stipulates this. Nor should Monzo stop Miss P sending money to her own 
account. And Miss P didnt conduct sufficient due diligence. 
Since then, our Investigator has clarified to both parties that their recommendations do not 
include interest as Miss P borrowed the funds from family. And theres been no evidence 
provided to show shed repaid them. Miss P accepted this.
As no agreement could be reached, this case was passed to me for a decision to be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and broadly for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Miss P freely admits she carried out the transactions in dispute, albeit she was tricked into 
doing so. Under the relevant regulations, namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017), Miss P is responsible for transactions shes authorised. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators' rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having reviewed Miss Ps statements from January 2022, I can see the account was 
typically used for low value day to day spending, as well as to receive credits and move 
funds between her Monzo pots. She typically maintained an account balance not exceeding 
a few hundred pounds. The largest debit prior to the scam was a £900 transfer to her own 
account in March 2022, which appeared as a one off. Miss P made the first disputed 
payment on 2 October to an existing payee in her own name. Monzo said no fraud warnings triggered and the confirmation of payee (CoP) match result was reused from a previous 
check. The payment was unremarkable in value, and I see no reason why this ought to have 
stood out to Monzo as unusual. She made further payments over two weeks later. Whilst the 
frequency increased at this point with payments being made almost every day until 
22 October, these payments too were unremarkable in value and should not have caused 
Monzo concern. The same can be said of the payments between 25 October and 
28 October.
It wasnt until 29 October that the activity started to appear unusual and out of character. I 
say this because Miss P made three payments out in just over 30 minutes, with a combined 
value of £8,923. This was a sudden increase in spending on her account, and each payment 
drastically increased in value, with the largest debit on that day being £6,000. These 
payments went to a new payee in her name set up two days prior, on 27 October. Monzo, 
and the account provider these payments were sent to, use CoP so Monzo likely was aware 
that the receiving account belonged to Miss P. However, taking into account common scam 
scenarios and the evolving fraud landscape (including for example the use of multi-stage 
fraud by scammers) which Monzo ought to have been aware of, I dont think the CoP result 
eliminated the risk associated with the payments. Overall, Im satisfied this activity was 
sufficiently out of character and unusual compared to Miss Ps prior account activity, so 
much so that Monzo shouldve been concerned that Miss P was possibly at risk of a fraud or 
scam. 
Monzo should have contacted Miss P at the point of the £6,000 payment to query the recent 
activity. Miss P has confirmed she wasnt told to mislead Monzo so I see no reason why she 
might not have been truthful had Monzo asked further questions about the nature of the 
payments. Its entirely possible that Miss P could have told Monzo she was sending the 
funds to her own account, and Monzo likely knew this from a CoP check. However, this 
wouldnt mean Monzo ought to assume the funds were going somewhere safe and in 
Miss Ps control. As explained, Monzo ought to have been well aware of multi-stage fraud. 
By the time the scam took place, Id expect Monzo to know that fraudsters often persuade 
customers to part with funds by means with the least friction possible and this often includes 
through the customers own accounts at another firm. Its also common for fraudsters to 
encourage customers, like Miss P, to open accounts for this very reason for the purpose of 
the scam, as was the case with the EMI account she sent the funds to.
Had Monzo questioned Miss P further, Monzo could have discovered that shed recently 
opened this account following the instructions of a third party. And she was intending to 
move the funds on from the account in her name to a third party, all of which is often a tell-
tale sign of a scam. I think Monzo would have also been concerned that Miss P had been 
contacted out of the blue on social media, with a financial proposition of guaranteed returns 
in an instant. Overall, Im persuaded that had Monzo had a meaningful conversation with 
Miss P, she likely would have explained the true reason for the payments she was making. 
And from this information, Monzo could have identified she was falling victim to a scam and 
warned her of the risks of proceeding. As Ive seen no reason to suggest Miss P would have 
still proceeded with the payments after such a discussion, Im satisfied Monzo could have 
prevented further loss. 
Im also satisfied Monzo can fairly and reasonably be held liable for Miss Ps loss, despite 
her moving funds to accounts in her own name before sending them to the scammer. I say 
this because the potential for multi-stage scams ought to have been well known to Monzo at 
the time. And as a matter of good practice Monzo should fairly and reasonably have been on 
the look-out for payments presenting an additional scam risk including those involving multi-
stage scams. Im satisfied Monzo should fairly and reasonably have made further enquiries 
before the £6,000 payment was released. And had it done so, its more likely than not that the scam would have been exposed and Miss P wouldnt have lost any more money. In 
those circumstances Im satisfied its fair to hold Monzo responsible for Miss Ps loss.      
But in order to reach a fair outcome, I need to also consider whether Miss Ps actions or 
inactions mean she should also bear some liability for her loss by way of contributory 
negligence. Its not in dispute Miss P is the victim, and Im very sorry she lost this money. 
But taking into account the overall scam and what was being promised, I think she ought to 
have held some concerns about the requests being made of her. And this should have 
prompted a more cautious approach from Miss P. 
I understand Miss P says it was the scammers friendly, knowledgeable and professional 
nature which added to the legitimacy of the scam. Similarly, Miss P says she was added into 
a group chat in which other third parties posted testimonials about their experience with L.  
However Ive seen no evidence to demonstrate how persuasive such contact might have 
been. Im sure the platform Miss P had access to, and the returns she received, provided 
Miss P with some assurances about the program she was involved in. However, Im not 
persuaded the proposal made by the scammer was entirely plausible, nor did it follow the 
process of what you might expect to see from a legitimate employment opportunity. 
Ultimately Miss P was contacted out of the blue via social media, by a third party shed had 
no dealings with before. She was offered a financial opportunity with guaranteed returns 
which was labelled as a job opportunity. And she was required to deposit money into the job 
opportunity, which I think is unusual. I think this ought to have prompted a higher level of 
care than Miss P demonstrated here, and so Im satisfied she can fairly be held partially 
liable for her loss. 
Recovery of funds
Monzo has evidenced it took steps to contact one of the firms Miss P sent her funds to. 
However as I understand it, Miss P sent funds to two different firms. Given Miss P made the 
payments to her own accounts held with other firms, Im not persuaded theres anything 
Monzo could have done to recover her funds. I say this because she confirmed she sent the 
funds to her own accounts and then on to the scammer. I also would not expect Monzo to 
raise a fraudulent claim against Miss Ps own accounts. So, on the balance of probabilities, I 
dont think any recovery attempts would have been successful in this case. 
Putting things right
Monzo should refund 50% of Miss Ps outstanding loss from and including payment 17, 
which is where it ought to have intervened. Monzo missed an opportunity to prevent Miss Ps 
loss from this point, however Miss Ps actions have fallen below what Id consider to be 
reasonable in such cases and therefore she should share liability for her loss. 
As Miss P borrowed the funds from a family members business and personal funds, I would 
not expect Monzo to award any interest on the refund as theres been no deprivation of 
funds which were borrowed from a third party at no cost to Miss P. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
If Miss P accepts my decision, Monzo Bank Ltd should:
- Refund 50% of Miss Ps outstanding loss from and including payment 17 to payment 
19, which I calculate to be £7,995.50 (50% of the payments of £6,000, £9,000, and 
£1,000 less the return of £9 received on 29 October 2022)Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Meghan Gilligan
Ombudsman