DRN-2028011
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are complaining that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
declined a claim they made for water damage to their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H noticed that some of their carpet  near a wall  was discoloured and damp.
They contacted RSA, which asked them for some additional information and for a quote for 
their builder to find the source of the water. Mr and Mrs H said they didnt think the problem 
was because of a leaking pipe as they didnt think there were any close to the area in 
question. 
No-one has since established the exact cause of the damage, but Mr and Mrs Hs contractor 
thinks its most likely to be a problem with the damp course, which has allowed water to get 
into or breach a wall and cause damage to the floor and carpeting. The contractor would 
have to do more invasive exploration to be sure of what caused the problem, but hes quoted 
for remedial work based on what he thinks has happened. 
RSA said this type of damage isnt listed as one of the things Mr and Mrs H have cover for, 
as it isnt an escape of water. And it says the policy explains when trace and access cover 
is available by giving a list of valid causes of damage. RSA says none of the listed causes 
has happened, so it wont pay for the trace and access work.    
Mr H and Mrs H complained, saying RSA should pay the costs of tracing the fault whether or 
not it was eventually covered, and for their damaged carpet. RSA didnt change its stance so 
Mr and Mrs H asked us to review their complaint.
Our investigator said she thought RSA had acted fairly, as the trace and access cover Mr 
and Mrs H have only applies if the cause of damage is listed in the policy  and damp 
building up over a period of time isnt covered. She also looked at whether Mr and Mrs H 
might be able to claim the damage under other sections of the policy  that is flood or 
accidental  but didnt think either applied. 
Mr and Mrs H say this isnt fair, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint. They think most 
people would think the trace and access cover would operate whatever the cause of the 
damage  so RSA should pay for this regardless of the results.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator gave.
When a customer makes a claim for damage in their home, its for them to show the insurer 
that one of the things theyre covered for has happened. These are often called events and 
are described in their policy.
We dont know definitively what caused the damage  but the contractor says its likely to be 
a problem with the damp proof membrane, which has allowed the damage to build up over 
time. RSA said Mr and Mrs H hadnt shown there was an escape of water  one of the 
events in the policy  so it wouldnt meet the claim.
Escape of water covers, in summary, leaks from pipes, water tanks or appliances. Mr and 
Mrs H say they dont think this is the case here are there arent any pipes in the area.
Another category the damage could be considered under would be flood. For the damage 
to have been caused by flood there needs to be water getting into the house  which it has. 
However, the amount of water needs to be substantial and abnormal. I dont think the 
contractors description of a possible breach in the damp course suggests there was a flood.
Mr and Mrs H do have trace and access cover for up to £10,000. They say it isnt clearly 
described in the policy and most people would think they have cover for finding the cause of 
damage  whether thats covered or not. Im afraid Im not persuaded by that argument. The 
policy gives a list of the circumstances where trace and access cover is available. The 
suggested cause  the failed damp proof course  isnt in the list, and I think thats clear.
Taking everything into account, I cant say Mr and Mrs H have shown RSA that an event 
they have cover for has occurred. RSA says that if, once work starts, its found that an 
insured even did occur, it will reconsider the claim, which would include trace and access 
costs. I think thats a reasonable response.
Ive also thought about whether the damage could be said to be accidental. In the policy 
this is described as damage that is caused suddenly. I dont think damage caused by damp 
can be said to have been caused suddenly, as it normally builds up over time. 
Unfortunately that means I couldnt ask RSA to meet the claim under this section of either 
their building or contents cover, so I cant ask it to pay for the carpet either.
 
Im afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman