DRN-4066282
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the settlement shes been offered by Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited (Skyfire) following a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs Ds car was stolen so she made a claim to Skyfire, her car insurance 
provider. As the car wasnt recovered, Skyfire offered a total loss payment of £9,910 (before 
excess deduction).
Mrs D was unhappy with the amount offered as she says her car was worth more, and she 
said she was unable to find a replacement of the same specification for the settlement 
amount. Skyfire said that their offer was based on the motor trade guides valuations, so their 
offer remained the same.
Mrs D remained unhappy, so she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He noted Skyfire had used the 
trade guides to reach their settlement offer, but he also obtained a bespoke valuation from 
one of the providers. The bespoke valuation showed a higher value than had been offered 
by Skyfire, so he recommended the settlement offer be increased in line with this, with 8% 
simple interest added.
Skyfire didnt agree. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mrs Ds policy outlines how claims may be settled in the event of a claim. Where a car is a 
total loss, the terms outline Skyfire can pay the market value of the vehicle. This is defined 
as:
Market value
The cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the accident. This may not be the 
same price you originally paid for your car or the value you declared on the 
Statement of Fact.
The dispute I need to decide here is whether Skyfire is offering a fair market value for 
Mrs Ds car. Based on all the information provided, I dont think they are. Ill explain why. 
Skyfire used three motor trade guides to obtain a market value. These resulted in the 
following valuations:
Glass £9,910
CAP £9,553 
Cazoo £9,564
Skyfire offered £9,910 (before excess deduction) which was in line with the highest of the 
three valuations they obtained.
Our investigator also checked the guides Skyfire relied on and noted there was a slight 
discrepancy on the dates that Skyfire had input, and this resulted in slight amendments to 
the values. But Skyfire said regardless of this, theyd still offered higher than the average 
across the amended valuations, so they said this didnt change anything overall.
However, our investigator also asked one of the trade guide providers for a bespoke 
valuation based on the vehicle specifics. This resulted in a higher valuation totalling £11,700. 
A copy of this was also sent to Skyfire.
Skyfire said to our investigator that the optional extras werent purchased by Mrs D as she 
wasnt the original buyer of the vehicle from new. Whilst she might not have been the original 
buyer from new, the fact is that the car still had the options, so the specification at time of 
loss does still need to be taken into account overall.
Having taken all the information provided into account, I think relying on the bespoke 
valuation provides a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. Whilst the amount is higher 
than the initial three trade guide valuations, those valuations didnt adequately take into 
account the optional extras Mrs Ds car had. Whereas the bespoke valuation was carried out 
by one of the providers on the specifics of Mrs Ds car. And nothing has been provided which 
leads me to conclude this is incorrect based on what Ive seen.
Therefore, with this in mind, Skyfire need to increase the total loss valuation to £11,700 and 
pay the difference (after excess deduction) to Mrs D. 8% simple interest also needs to be 
added from date of the previous payment to date of settlement to compensate her for being 
deprived of the use of that money for other purposes.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Increase the valuation to £11,700 and pay the difference (after excess deduction) to 
Mrs D
 
Add 8% simple interest* from date of the previous payment to date of settlement
*If Skyfire Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman