DRN-4386236
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs G are unhappy with the length of time it has taken Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
release the money that was held in their late-mothers accounts
Mr K and Mrs G bring this complaint in their capacity as the administrators of their late-
mothers (Mrs Ks) estate.
What happened
In March 2022, Mrs G reported her mothers death in one of Barclays branches. She was 
told it could be released without probate because Mrs G was also a customer of the bank. 
But Barclays later advised that this was incorrect and a Grant of Probate, or Letters of 
Administration, is always required when the value of a deceased account holders account 
exceeds £50,000 at the date of death. 
It took some time to obtain the letters of administration and then there was a delay due to a 
signature mismatch on the account closure form. The money from Mrs Ks accounts was 
eventually released in September 2023. Mr K and Mrs G are unhappy with the overall delay. 
Our Investigator didnt think it was wrong of the bank to insist upon the provision of the 
Letters of Administration. She acknowledged that there may have been some delays in the 
bereavement process, but explained that we cannot make compensation awards to third 
parties. Mr K and Mrs G didnt accept this and so the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K and 
Mrs G, Ive reached the same conclusion as the Investigator, for much the same reasons.
Its clear from the information contained on Barclays website, and in the letters it sent Mrs G 
after she notified it about her mothers death, that because her mother had more than 
£50,000 in her accounts it required proof that she had the legal right to deal with the estate. 
Mrs K didnt leave a will and the gross value of her estate was close to £350,000. So 
Barclays required Letters of Administration before it could release the money and I think its 
possible Mr K and Mrs G would have needed to obtain this anyway, given the gross value of 
the estate.
I dont think theres any reason why Barclays ought to have made an exception to its usual 
process in this particular case. It needs to guard against releasing money from the deceased 
estate to someone who is not entitled to receive it. And I dont think the fact that Mr K and 
Mrs G are also customers of the bank is a reason not to insist on seeing the Letters of 
Administration. Its unfortunate the member of branch staff may have suggested otherwise, 
but Barclays records indicate it apologised for this and provided the correct information fairly 
promptly.
I also appreciate it took about a month for the bank to release the money after receiving the 
required Letters of Administration and closure forms. And that is, perhaps, longer than I 
would normally expect even if additional checks needed to be completed. But, as the 
Investigator has already explained, I have no power to make awards to compensate 
administrators of estate for any distress and/or inconvenience they have personally suffered 
while acting in their capacity as the administrator of the estate. I note Mr K and Mrs G are 
customers of Barclays in their own right. But that is separate to the matter being complained 
about here which relates to the administration of their late-mothers estate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman