DRN-2214694
The complaint
Mr Q says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender  irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr Q between        
July 2016 and November 2019. A summary of Mr Qs borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 21/07/2016 28/10/2016 3 £200.00 £124.26
2 11/11/2016 27/01/2017 3 £200.00 £97.87
3 29/05/2017 11/10/2017 6 £350.00 £128.37
4 07/12/2017 28/04/2018 6 £400.00 £143.80
5 28/04/2018 28/06/2019 12 £1,350.00 £301.54
6 05/07/2019 28/11/2019 3 £300.00 £152.80
7 28/11/2019 Outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £215.17
At the time of writing this decision loan 7 remains outstanding. 
In the most recent assessment, our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Qs complaint and 
thought the loans from loan 5 onwards shouldnt have been given because he didnt seem to 
be managing his finances and appeared to be dependent on this type of borrowing.             
Mr Lender disagreed because it said it had done checks on Mr Q and the loans were 
affordable.  It also believed that whilst the gaps between loans 2 and 3 and loans 3 and 4 
didnt constitute new chains they were significant and should be considered that the pattern 
of Mr Qs didnt indicate he was dependent on this kind of lending. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Q 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr Q could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Lender has said there were significant breaks in Mr Qs borrowing between loans 2 and 3 
and loans 3 and 4. Looking at the dates, I can see there was a four month break between 
loans 2 and 3 and then a two month break between loans 3 and 4. I have taken these breaks 
into consideration when reaching my decision.  
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 4.     
Mr Q didnt provide anything further for us to consider about them. As there is no dispute 
about these loans, I wont be making any findings on them.
Mr Lender says it carried out checks before it lent loan 5 to Mr Q and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Mr Qs fifth loan in under two years (and if 
I take the breaks in lending into account its the fifth loan in 15 months), I think Mr Lender 
should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Qs finances before lending him 
this loan. 
Had Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 5, its likely to have 
found that Mr Q was borrowing from other short-term lenders and the repayments for all 
these loans were increasing his monthly outgoings. In addition, Mr Q was borrowing a significantly larger amount than his previous loans and 
committing himself to repaying it over a longer period. And this was on the same day he had 
repaid loan 4. This ought to have prompted Mr Lender to verify the information Mr Q was 
telling it about his financial circumstances.  
All of this was most likely an indication that he was in a cycle of debt and was further 
borrowing to cover the hole that repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr Q, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Qs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because: 
at this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr Q was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr Q had taken out six loans in two and a half years (if I take into 
account the gaps between his earlier loans). So, Mr Lender ought to have realised it 
was more likely that Mr Qs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr Qs first loan was for £200 and loan 6 was for £300. By now, Mr Lender ought to 
have known that it was unlikely that Mr Q was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Loan 6 was taken out a week after Mr Q had repaid loan 5. Loan 7 was taken out on 
the same day Mr Q repaid loan 6 and was for a significantly larger amount.  
He also wasnt really making any inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan 7 
was taken out over two years after his first  and was for a larger amount. Mr Q had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr Q lost out because Mr Lender provided borrowing for loan 6 onwards 
because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Qs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The length of time over which Mr Q borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Qs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Qs complaint about loans 5 to 7 and Mr Lender should put things right. 
Putting things right
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt Mr Lender should buy this back if Mr Lender is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender cant buy the debt back, then    
Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr Q towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mr Lender has already refunded.B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mr Q which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr Q originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr Q as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr Q having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 7. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr Q. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr 
Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr Q. Mr Lender shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Qs credit file in 
relation to loan 5. The overall pattern of Mr Qs borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Qs credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan 7 from Mr Qs credit 
file until this has been repaid, but Mr Lender should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about loan 7.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Qs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman