DRN-3067774
The complaint
Mr D complains about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited handled his 
legal expenses insurance claim. Reference to DAS includes its agents. 
What happened
In summary, Mr D has legal expenses insurance as part of his home insurance policy. 
He had a dispute with his employer. Mr D alleges that his employer discriminated against 
him. 
In September 2020, Mr D made a claim against his legal expenses insurance. DAS 
declined the claim. It said that the discrimination about which Mr D complains occurred 
before the inception of his policy.     
Mr D complained to DAS and said that his claim relates to an issue that occurred within 
the period of his cover. In October 2020, DAS upheld Mr Ds complaint and offered him 
compensation of £175 for its error in declining his claim against the policy. 
DAS also said, amongst other things, that the most it would pay Mr Ds solicitor was 
£100 an hour, plus VAT, in accordance with the policy terms (all following references to 
hourly rates are exclusive of VAT). It said that Mr D could pay the additional hourly rate 
himself, find another solicitor for that hourly rate or instruct a solicitor from its panel. DAS 
said that if its established that Mr Ds claim has reasonable prospects of success, it will 
backdate cover to the date the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS)  
certificate was issued. 
Mr D complained to DAS about the hourly rate its willing to pay his solicitor and further 
delays. DAS apologised for the delay and offered Mr D compensation of £150. It 
maintained its position in relation to the hourly rate. 
Mr D wants DAS to meet the reasonable costs of his chosen solicitor. He says that his 
solicitor reduced his hourly rate significantly in order to help him when DAS incorrectly 
refused to cover his claim. Mr D says that DAS insistence on paying an hourly rate of 
£100 essentially renders his choice of solicitor meaningless. He says that his case is 
complex and urgent. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that DAS had 
treated Mr D unfairly and he thought that its offers of compensation of £175 and £150 
were fair in relation to poor customer service. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
DAS should show that an appropriately qualified solicitor whos not in a 
commercial relationship with it can provide the service he requires for £100 an 
hour, otherwise his freedom of choice has been rendered meaningless. 
The court guideline hourly rates would provide a fair resolution. 
Just because DAS says it can provide the cover for £100 an hour doesnt mean 
he has to choose their solicitor.
He lost confidence in DAS when it initially denied his claim, doesnt trust that its 
solicitor can deal properly with his claim and changing solicitor now would harm 
his case. 
DAS should pay a reasonable and fair rate to provide appropriate assistance 
from a non-panel solicitor which he has the right to choose, especially as DAS 
initially denied his claim at a critical stage. 
Mr Ds solicitor provided his credentials and addressed the issues of the complexity of 
the case and the level of fee earner required. He said, in summary:
Mr Ds case requires a review of events over a significant period. 
Mr Ds case is against a state body.
The nature of Mr Ds employer brings added complexity, including different 
limitation periods and additional provisions affecting personnel.
Mr Ds claim is for discrimination on the grounds of race and religion, which are 
difficult issues requiring a partner-led approach.
Mr Ds case will include consideration of strategies and reports about inclusivity 
produced by his employer.
Hes prepared to charge £200 an hour, which is less than both the solicitors  
guideline hourly rate for a fee earner with 8 years experience in his geographical 
area and less than his usual hourly rate of £285. 
The investigator considered what had been said but didnt change his view. As there was 
no agreement between the parties, Mr Ds complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In what follows, I summarise events in rather less detail than theyve been presented. No 
discourtesy is intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide. Its clear 
and quite understandable that Mr D has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided 
detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read through all this carefully and taken it 
all into consideration when making my decision. In coming to my decision, I focus on what I 
think is material to the outcome of the complaint.the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows: 
Legal expenses
[]
! Important
In the event of a claim, if you decide not to use the services of a preferred law firm, you 
will be responsible for any costs that fall outside the DAS Standard Terms of Appointment 
and these will not be paid by us. 
What we cover
[]
The most we will pay in costs and expenses is not more than the amount we would 
have paid to a preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firm (when acting 
as an appointed representative) is currently £100 per hour. This amount may vary 
from time to time.
[]
Your legal representation
[]
If you choose a law firm as your appointed representative who is not a preferred law 
firm, we will give your choice of law firm the opportunity to act on the same terms as a 
preferred law firm. However, if they refuse to act on this basis, the most we will pay is the 
amount we would have paid if they had agreed to the DAS Standard Terms of 
Appointment. The amount we will pay a law firm (when acting as the appointed 
representative) is currently £100 per hour. The amount may vary from time to time.
[]
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint because I dont think that DAS treated him unfairly. I say 
that because:
DAS has to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. Where theres a 
significant limit on cover - such as the hourly rate in this case  DAS should make 
that clear; policyholders should know at the outset what cover theyre getting. Im 
satisfied that the policy is clear and that the rate DAS will normally pay is £100 an 
hour. 
As a general principle, as DAS is prepared to pay the legal costs incurred its fair for 
it to restrict what its willing to pay. So, the starting point is that Mr D can expect that 
DAS will pay £100 an hour. 
Whether the rate is set out in the policy isnt the only thing to consider. Mr D has 
rightly pointed out that where its necessary to start legal proceedings, he has 
freedom to choose his solicitor. So, even when the rate is clearly set out, I still need 
to look at the facts of each case to decide whether DAS has given Mr D a reasonable 
choice or has restricted it so much that he no longer has a meaningful choice. Mr D and his solicitor say that his case is complex. DAS and one of its panel 
solicitors dont agree. Its not for me to determine whether Mr Ds case is particularly 
unusual or complex. But Ive considered whether DAS hourly rate here unreasonably 
restricts Mr Ds right to choose his solicitors. 
Mr D says, in essence, that only offering panel solicitors is unreasonable, as it limits 
his choice too much. Im afraid I dont agree. DAS has a large panel of firms and has 
confirmed that its able to offer a choice of different firms with the ability to deal with 
this type of case. I think thats reasonable. It doesnt seem to me that DAS has 
limited Mr Ds choice so much as to make it meaningless. 
Mr D says that as DAS made an error in declining his claim initially, he had to instruct 
his own solicitor and lost confidence in DAS. DAS apologised for initially declining the 
claim and stated its position in relation to the hourly rate in October 2020. I 
appreciate that Mr D didnt accept what DAS said about this and pursued his 
complaint. But I dont think that DAS initial error means that it should now increase 
the hourly rate its willing to pay. 
DAS has already offered Mr D £175 and £150 in relation to poor customer service. I 
think those amounts are fair and reasonable in this case given the nature, extent and 
duration of the poor service Mr D received. Its not clear to me whether Mr D has 
actually received those amounts, as hes referred to not cashing a cheque. If Mr D 
hasnt received those amounts or a cheque needs to be re-issued, he should contact 
DAS direct. 
For the reasons Ive explained, my view is that DAS has offered Mr D a reasonable 
choice of solicitors. So, I dont think that it treated him unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining to pay more than the rate of £100 an hour set out in the policy terms. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman