DRN-3813355
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) settled a claim under 
their home insurance policy. They say Aviva didnt fully settle the claim, omitting some costs 
for scaffolding. 
Aviva use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Aviva includes 
these agents.
In making their complaint, Mr L and Mrs L were supported by a representative. References 
to Mr L and Mrs L include their representative as appropriate.
This decision only covers the issues raised in Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint to this service in 
March 2022. The issue relates to scaffolding costs arising from reinstatement work to their 
property following a fire in 2015. This decision doesnt cover any other issues associated 
with the claim for the damage to the property, for which a settlement was agreed in 2018.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties in this case, so Ill only 
summarise what happened insofar as its relevant to the issues raised in Mr L and Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
The background is a fire in June 2017 at a neighbouring property damaged Mr L and Mrs Ls 
property. Reinstatement work subsequently took place, including costs incurred in respect of 
scaffolding. Initial scaffolding costs were agreed between Aviva and the insurers of the third 
party also affected by the fire, but there was a delay in the work that meant additional 
scaffolding was needed for a period of three months (to February 2018). The scaffolding 
company raised an invoice for the period of additional hire (£6,253 plus £1,250.60 VAT, 
making a total of £7,503.60). 
Aviva asked for additional information about the invoice (which they said they didnt receive). 
A settlement of the claim was subsequently agreed later in 2018, but the additional costs 
werent included. Aviva said the scaffolding company were responsible for delays that meant 
an additional period of scaffolding hire was needed, so it wasnt reasonable for them to pay 
the costs of the additional period.
The invoice remained outstanding and subsequently Aviva were approached by loss 
assessors acting for Mr L and Mrs L asking they settle the invoice. In December 2020 and in 
April 2021, Aviva maintained their position, saying the settlement had been agreed back in 
2018 and the claim had been closed. They said no further payment would be made.
 Mr L and Mrs L challenged Avivas position, saying the invoice should be settled by Aviva, 
and they said delays were due to other factors than the scaffolding company. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, maintaining their decision not to pay the invoice. In their 
final response, Aviva noted the invoice was originally presented in 2018, at which point their 
loss adjuster requested further information (which they said wasnt provided). Later in 2018, 
all parties agreed a settlement of the claim that didnt include the scaffolding charges. This 
was partly due to not receiving the further information, but also because Aviva thought the 
scaffolding company had caused unnecessary delays, so it wasnt reasonable for Aviva to 
pay the scaffolding charges. Based on this, Aviva declined to pay for the scaffolding costs.
Mr L and Mrs L then complained to this service. They said the invoice was presented in early 
2018, with queries then raised by Aviva. But when the claim was settled, the invoice was 
omitted (when still outstanding). Later discussions didnt lead to Aviva agreeing to settle the 
invoice (or contribute to it). They wanted Aviva to settle the invoice.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted the dispute over the outstanding 
scaffolding invoice was between the businesses involved (the scaffolding company and 
Aviva) and on the evidence available there was no detriment to Mr L and Mrs L. He thought 
Avivas obligation under the policy was to indemnify Mr L and Mrs L which theyd done, so 
there wasnt any impact on Mr L and Mrs L. Aviva had declined to pay the invoice as they 
thought the cost was caused by delays by the scaffolding company. As a dispute between 
the scaffolding company and Aviva (with no impact on Mr L and Mrs L) then the investigator 
concluded there was no further action for Aviva to take.
Mr L and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said the issue wasnt a dispute between the scaffolding company 
and Aviva. When the claim was settled, the invoice was outstanding and was missed by both 
parties (the scaffolding company and Aviva). Mr L and Mrs L thought they would, ultimately, 
be liable for the costs, so they wanted Aviva to accept there was a genuine mistake by all 
parties that the invoice was omitted from the settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr L and Mrs L.
The main element of Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint is that Aviva should settle the outstanding 
invoice for the additional scaffolding costs. Aviva say the claim settlement later in 2018 was 
agreed and that they didnt receive the additional information they requested when the 
invoice was originally presented in early 2018. They also say the delays that led to the need 
for an additional period of scaffolding were caused by the scaffolding company. Based on 
this it wouldnt be reasonable for them to reopen the settlement and pay the invoice.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the evidence and information provided by Mr 
L and Mrs L and by Aviva, including the exchanges between the various parties involved. 
Based on what Ive seen, Ive concluded Aviva havent acted unreasonably in declining to 
pay the cost of the invoice. 
Aviva say they asked for additional information on the invoice when it was presented 
originally, which wasnt received. They also say delays that led to the need for an additional 
period of scaffolding were due to the scaffolding company, so it wouldnt be reasonable for 
them to pay the costs. They also say a claim settlement was agreed in late 2018 which didnt 
include the additional costs. Given this (and the time that would appear to have elapsed 
before the issue of the outstanding invoice was raised with them again, 2020) I dont think 
theyve acted unreasonably in declining to pay the invoice. 
From the information Ive seen, it doesnt indicate the invoice was (as Mr L and Mrs L say) 
omitted from the claim settlement due to a genuine mistake by all parties. Rather, Aviva 
didnt think they should pay the invoice. While Mr L and Mrs L dispute Avivas reasons for declining to pay the invoice, based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded Aviva have acted 
unreasonably in declining to pay it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr L and Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman