DRN-3427348
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the handling and decline of a claim she made to Amtrust Europe
Limited. Shes also unhappy Amtrust has backdated removal of subsidence cover from her
policy.
What happened
Mrs G owns a property which she lets out to tenants. Shes insured the let property with
Amtrust since 2011. In June 2021 Mrs G noticed cracking to the wall of the property and
reported this to Amtrust to make a claim under her policy.
An inspection was carried out by Amtrusts representatives. Additional information was also
requested from Mrs G from the time of sale of the property in 2008.
Amtrust subsequently declined the claim. Amtrust said the property had been suffering with
longstanding movement and cracking issues, and if they had been told this when they asked
in 2017, they wouldnt have provided subsidence cover. So, they backdated the removal of
subsidence cover to 2017, and declined the claim. They also said that settlement was the
cause of the movement and cracking, so wouldnt be covered in any event under the policy
terms.
Mrs G was unhappy with Amtrusts position and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that
Amtrust had acted fairly by declining the claim as the property was suffering from
longstanding issues, which she hadnt told Amtrust about. She said that if Amtrust were
made aware, then they wouldnt have offered subsidence cover, so it was fair to backdate
removal to 2017. She said that she didnt think Amtrust had acted unfairly overall.
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G reported cracking to her property in June 2021. An inspection was carried out 
by Amtrust and they concluded that the cracking was a long-standing issue. They 
relied on street view images, along with the pre-purchase survey from 2008, to 
conclude this.
Ive seen the images Amtrust has relied on. And they do appear to indicate historic 
cracking problems with the property. The images date back to at least 2012 and 
clearly show cracks present over the years, and no decoration appears to have taken 
place since that time, so the cracks do appear historic.
The pre-purchase survey from 2008 also says:
Evidence of movement was observed in the form of slight distortion to the external
walls together with further cracking to the internal partitions. We are of the opinion
that the movement is long standing in nature, and that the risk of further movement
taking place is acceptable.
Therefore, this also indicates a long-standing problem.
Even if I discounted the pre-purchase survey, as it doesnt have any photos, the later 
street view images from at least 2012 also reflect the same. With this in mind, I dont 
think Amtrust has acted unfairly by concluding the property is suffering from a 
longstanding issue. Whilst Mrs G has said she was unaware as there were tenants in 
the property, she still has a responsibility to check and maintain her property and as I 
say, the cracks appear to date back several years.
Amtrust has removed subsidence cover back to 2017 when it says Mrs G should 
have made them aware of issues with her property. This is on the basis of the 
following reflected on Mrs Gs documents from 2017 renewal:
Has the property experienced any existing or previous stepped/diagonal cracking,
subsidence/ground heave/landslip, movement or underpinning?
And this was answered No. Amtrust say that as the images, and pre-purchase 
survey, demonstrate a longstanding movement and cracking issue, Mrs G should 
have notified them and answered the question as Yes.
I agree with Amtrusts view that Mrs G shouldve made them aware at the 2017 
renewal (and subsequent renewals) that her property was suffering issues. This was 
something that Amtrust needed to know and the renewal documents reflected this. 
So, I agree with Amtrust that Mrs G shouldve made them aware at the time and later 
renewals.
Mrs G holds a commercial policy as she is a landlord. When taking out and renewing 
this policy for her let property, shes a commercial customer. This means the relevant 
act that applies here is the Insurance Act 2015.
In summary, this says that Mrs G had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to the 
insurer. And this means disclosing every material circumstance which the insured 
knows, or ought to know. Or failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient 
information to put a prudent insurer on notice to make further enquiries for the 
purpose of revealing those material circumstances.
The Insurance Act 2015 lists several remedies that an insurer can take when there 
has been a misrepresentation and a qualifying breach. And of relevance here, this 
includes, if the insurer had been made aware and would have entered the contract 
and applied different terms, the contract can be treated as if it had been entered into 
on those different terms.This is what Amtrust says it has done here. They say that if Mrs G had told them 
about the cracking and movement issues with her property, then they wouldnt have 
provided subsidence cover. So, theyve backdated removal to 2017, when Mrs G 
shouldve made them aware based on the documents and information contained 
within these (and the same incorrect information remained at later renewals) as Ive 
outlined above.
However, based on the evidence provided, Im not minded to conclude it was fair and
reasonable for Amtrust to backdate removal of subsidence cover or that theyve 
sufficiently demonstrated that wouldve been what theyd have done, if Mrs G made 
them aware of the cracking and movement in 2017 (or after). Ill explain why.
In support of Amtrusts position to backdate removal of subsidence cover, theyve 
provided an extract from their underwriting guide. They say this shows what they 
wouldve done if theyd been made aware. Whilst I cant share this fully with Mrs G 
due to it being commercially sensitive, Ive had sight of this.
In summary this says if there is existing subsidence, or has been previous 
subsidence, Amtrust would then exclude subsidence cover from the policy. So, in 
principle, if there had been or was existing subsidence, the backdated removal would 
be in line with the underwriting criteria and the remedies in the Insurance Act 2015. 
Therefore, if that was the case, Id likely agree that was fair and reasonable.
However, its not actually been concluded there is existing (or was previous) 
subsidence. I say this firstly because the house survey from 2008 said there was 
evidence of movement and cracking which was longstanding, and an acceptable risk 
of further movement, but it didnt identify subsidence was causing it.
In addition to this, following the reporting of the claim, Amtrusts specialists 
investigated the cracking and movement and concluded:
We are clearly concerned with a longstanding problem and very gradual movement
only. This indicates we are simply concerned with a settlement problem.
The orientation of the crack suggests downward movement to the front part of the
building, which is founded higher than the rear part as the cellar room is not as low
as the room behind.
The different foundation depths are therefore the likely reason for the differential
movement.
The trees to the rear cannot possibly have an influence on the front of the building
and in view of the depth of the foundations, the property would not be susceptible to
sub-soil shrinkage problems here, even if shrinkable clay soils were present, which is
not at all likely.
All the services are also to the rear of the building, so leakage from underground
services can also be discounted as a probable explanation.
Therefore, at the moment, it appears its been concluded the property is suffering 
from settlement, rather than subsidence. And Amtrust has only shown that if there is 
previous or existing subsidence, that this would result in subsidence being excluded 
from cover. But thats not been concluded.So, whilst I agree that Mrs G shouldve made Amtrust aware and answered the 
question as Yes (as this also includes cracking and movement) in 2017 and 
subsequent renewals, Amtrust hasnt shown that settlement, cracking, movement etc 
more generally would have resulted in subsidence cover being excluded from the 
policy. Only previous or existing confirmed subsidence would result in that, which 
isnt relevant here  based on the evidence Ive seen.
So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
Im minded to conclude it was unfair and unreasonable for Amtrust to backdate and 
remove the subsidence cover, and therefore they should reinstate it.
However, this doesnt then mean Amtrust should also deal with Mrs Gs claim even if 
she did consequently have subsidence cover in place since 2017. This is for the 
reasons Ive outlined already around whether there is/was actually subsidence. The 
specialists determined it was settlement of the property, rather than subsidence. And 
Mrs G has also said that too, following discussion and a quote for repairs from her 
builder. But Mrs Gs policy excludes damage caused by settlement, so there isnt any 
cover for her claim in any event.
Therefore, whilst Im not minded to conclude Amtrust has acted fairly by removing 
(and backdating) subsidence cover more generally, regardless of this, I dont think 
theyve acted unfairly by declining the claim, as its not covered under Mrs Gs policy.
Mrs G has also said shes unhappy with the overall service shes received from 
Amtrust and the conduct of their agents, including when they inspected her property. 
But Amtrust has confirmed the call recordings are unfortunately unavailable and I 
wasnt there at the visit, so Im not able to comment on this specifically. But as I think 
the claim decision was fair overall, Im not minded to conclude this has been 
detrimental to Mrs G, even if I think it was unfair to backdate removal of cover more 
widely. Aside from the decision to backdate removal of subsidence cover, overall I 
dont think the claim handling has been poor or delayed.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Amtrust to reinstate 
subsidence cover, but I didnt think they had acted unfairly by declining the claim.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs G responded to my provisional decision but she didnt agree. She said Amtrusts intent 
was always to decline her claim. And she remains unhappy with the actions and conduct of 
Amtrusts agents.
Mrs G also said she is completely sure the crack wasnt present, and just because someone 
acting on behalf of the insurer says it was, doesnt make it true. She therefore disputes she 
answered the question about cracking or movement incorrectly.Amtrust responded and they also didnt agree. They didnt provide any further comments 
around the claim decline itself or my findings in relation to that part of this complaint.
However, Amtrust disagreed that they hadnt demonstrated they wouldnt have offered 
subsidence cover, or that it was unfair to backdate removal. They said the document is used 
internally and underwriters interpret this differently to the content within it specifically. And on 
this basis, they say that if the question had been answered correctly, they wouldnt have 
provided subsidence cover dating back to 2017, so the backdated removal was correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, along 
with the responses to it. But I havent reached a different outcome.
I note Mrs G remains unhappy with the conduct of Amtrusts agents. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, the call recordings are unavailable and I wasnt present during the visit 
so Im unable to conclude what was discussed with any certainty. And as I outlined, I dont 
think the claim decision was incorrect even if Mrs G was unhappy with the visit itself.
Mrs G also maintains that the cracks werent present previously, and therefore she hasnt 
answered the question incorrectly. However, I explained in my provisional decision that Id 
seen the street view images, and they do show this dating back to at least 2012. And nothing 
provided has changed my view of that.
So, my view remains Mrs G should have answered the question as yes and for the same 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision. In this, I said that the relevant act which applied 
was the Insurance Act 2015 as Mrs G is a commercial customer.
This says that Mrs G had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to the insurer. The 
Insurance Act 2015 lists several remedies that an insurer can take when there has been a 
misrepresentation and a qualifying breach. This includes, if the insurer had been made 
aware and would have entered the contract and applied different terms, the contract can be 
treated as if it had been entered into on those different terms. This is what Amtrust says they 
did here.
Im satisfied Mrs G answered the question incorrectly and my view of that remains the same. 
But in my provisional decision I said I wasnt persuaded there was a qualifying breach as I 
didnt believe Amtrust had demonstrated they wouldnt have offered subsidence cover had 
the question been answered differently. So, I said I was minded to direct Amtrust to reinstate 
(backdated) subsidence cover.
Amtrust didnt agree with what I said here. They say that the underwriting guide is an internal 
document, used by its underwriters. They said the underwriting guide, solely and only 
outlining previous/existing subsidence and what would happen, would be understood by 
underwriters to not just be confirmed or existing subsidence, but much wider than this, and 
for cracking and movement for other reasons. Amtrust say they shouldnt have to add wider 
detail beyond what it says that Ive referred to, into their underwriting guide, as its an internal 
document not seen by the customer.And Amtrust say that the statement of fact asks a wider question and the question is 
phrased in a way to capture all possibilities of moving and cracking, in order to decide 
whether the policy is suitable. Amtrust say there is no argument the cracking is longstanding, 
and Mrs G misrepresented by not disclosing that, and Amtrust maintain they wouldnt have 
offered subsidence cover if she had.
I agree that Mrs G made a misrepresentation as Ive said. Whilst I note Amtrusts comments 
in relation to the underwriting guide, my view of this remains the same. Im not persuaded 
Amtrust has demonstrated removing the subsidence cover is what wouldve happened. The 
Insurance Act 2015 says that there are remedies available if there is a qualifying breach. 
However, for me to say Amtrust has acted fairly, Id need to be satisfied it had demonstrated 
there was one. But Im not persuaded it has.
As I said in my provisional decision, the underwriting guide only refers to previous or existing 
subsidence. And if there was previous or existing subsidence, I dont think Amtrust would 
have acted unfairly as they would have sufficiently demonstrated there was a qualifying 
breach as the underwriting guide clearly outlines previous or existing subsidence specifically 
and that it would then be excluded.
However here theres neither previous or existing subsidence. There is settlement. 
Settlement itself is specifically excluded, in any event, under the standard policy terms. 
Thats also why Amtrust declined the claim (which I think was fair and correct to do so). So, 
removing the subsidence cover specifically, doesnt change the overall policy in relation to 
settlement, as that was always excluded in any event. Whereas the policy includes 
subsidence cover as standard, so to limit that cover, I can see why Amtrust would ask that 
question in order to consider the subsidence risk specifically. And the underwriting guide 
confirms what would happen in the event of disclosed previous or existing subsidence 
specifically too.
But beyond that, Im not persuaded Amtrust has shown that it wouldve removed subsidence 
based on their underwriting criteria if existing damage wasnt subsidence related. I say this 
because the policy already has measures in place to restrict cover (as standard) for damage 
and cracking caused by movement such as settlement, or more broadly, wear and tear, 
gradual damage, or damage which pre-dates the policy. 
Therefore, with the above and my provisional decision in mind, I agree Mrs G has 
misrepresented based on the documents and question. But Im not satisfied Amtrust has 
shown it was a qualifying breach or they wouldve acted differently (by removing subsidence 
cover) if she had answered differently, in line with the Insurance Act 2015. Consequently, 
Amtrust should reinstate (and backdate) subsidence cover under Mrs Gs policy.
However, as outlined in my provisional decision, that doesnt mean Amtrust need to deal 
with Mrs Gs claim. The cracking is the result of settlement, and all opinions and the expert 
report agree with this. As settlement is excluded under Mrs Gs policy, Amtrust has acted 
fairly by declining the claim on this basis. Nothing provided in response to my provisional 
decision has changed my thoughts or reasoning on this part of the complaint.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Reinstate (and backdate to 2017) subsidence cover under Mrs Gs policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman