DRN-3255013
The complaint
Mr L says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as GeorgeBanco.com, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L took out two guarantor loans from ELL. This means they were given on the basis that
Mr L had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loans if he failed to. A
summary of his borrowing follows. Part of loan 2 was used to settle loan 1. I understand
there is an outstanding balance on loan 2.
Mr L says the loans were unaffordable and proper checks were not completed.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said ELLs checks
were reasonable and proportionate. And it made fair lending decisions based on the
information it gathered.
Mr L disagreed saying ELL gave him loans with very high interest rates whilst he was in
financial distress. He said he found the investigators assessment to show bias and asked
for an ombudsmans review, so the case was passed to me. I reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator but some of my findings differed. So I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision) to give everyone a chance to reply before 
I issued a final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision 
Mr L said he found the investigators view to show bias. He didnt give any details to support
this comment. As an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either
consumer or lenders - theres no benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the other.
ELL asked for some information from Mr L before it approved the loans. It asked for details
of his income and his monthly costs. It told us it checked his salary using a third-party
income verification tool. It reviewed his credit file at the time of both applications to
understand his credit history and existing commitments. And it used national statistics to
verify his living costs. It also asked about the purpose of the loans. It says loan 1
was for a car and to help family, loan 2 was for home improvements. Loan 2 was also used
in part to repay loan 1. From these checks combined ELL concluded Mr L had enough
monthly disposable income to afford loans 1 and 2 and that he would be left with around
£480 and £370, respectively, after making his ELL loan repayments.
I agree with the investigator that these checks were proportionate for loan 1 and did not
show anything that ought to have led ELL to make a different lending decision. But I dont
think the checks were proportionate for loan 2. However I havent currently seen enough
evidence to allow me to conclude better checks would have shown that the loan would be
unsustainable for Mr L. Ill explain why these are my findings.
Loan 1
This was Mr Ls first loan with ELL and the monthly repayment was a relatively small
percentage of his monthly income. ELL verified Mr Ls declared income and expenses and
adjusted his living costs accordingly. The results from ELLs credit check showed some
adverse information but this was historic, and Mr Ls current level of debt was very low. He
was one month in arrears on what seems to be a telecomms account, but the account had
otherwise been up-to-date for the previous two years. In the round, I dont think there was
anything in the information ELL gathered that ought to have led it make a different lending
decision. It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr L.
Loan 2
Mr L returned to ELL to increase his borrowing just seven months into the 36-month term of
loan 1. This time he was looking to borrow over a five-year period and the repayments would
be around 50% higher than for loan 1. The credit check also showed that Mr L had taken out
a loan the previous month which had a £14,123 balance and seemed to also be over a 60-
month term. So I think ELL ought to have completed a fuller financial review to get the
assurances it needed that Mr L could sustainably repay loan 2 over its five-year term.
This means I need to look at what better checks would most likely have shown ELL. To do
this I have reviewed Mr Ls bank statements from the three months prior to his application.
But from them I cant fairly conclude that better checks would have shown ELL that the loan
might not be sustainably affordable for Mr L. The statements show that Mr Ls income was
as he declared, as was his monthly rent. However, it is very hard to understand his actual
disposable income as there are frequent transfers to and from another bank account that I
do not have statements for, as well as relatively high-value payments to and from named
individuals.
I cant see any of the indicators of financial duress that would typically suggest additional
borrowing might not be sustainable: for example, Mr L was not using an overdraft facility, or
payday loans, or multiple credit cards. So currently, I cant fairly conclude that better checks
would have led ELL to make a different lending decision. If Mr L can supply more
comprehensive information about his financial situation I will of course carefully review this
before making my final decision.
It follows I cant currently conclude ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr L.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Mr L said the loans had very high interest rates. But I
can see from the loan agreements - which Mr L signed electronically  that the APR, the
interest rates, the monthly repayments and the totals repayable were set out clearly. I accept
the interest rates were high, but Mr L had to actively engage in the application process for
his loans, so I think its likely that he was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent
seen anything which makes me think that ELL treated Mr L unfairly or breached industry
practice regarding interest charges.
t
Both parties responded to my provisional decision by the deadline of 13 January 2022. Mr L 
commented that no date was provided by which he needed to reply. This is incorrect, it was 
set out at the start of the provisional decision  and as I said he met that deadline.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
In response to the provisional decision, ELL said it agreed with the findings.
Mr L disagreed. He explained the concept of a stokvel and provided a list of transactions 
dated from March 2020 to May 2021 that were credits from different members into this 
collective savings device. He also provided a list of wage credits and bonus payments over 
around the same time frame. 
I have carefully considered this additional information Mr L has provided. But it does not 
change my findings or conclusion. I thank him for explaining the concept of a stokvel. Whilst 
I am not certain, I assume Mr L provided information about the stokvel to explain the 
frequent transfers to and from another bank account that I do not have statements for, as 
well as relatively high-value payments to and from named individuals I referenced in the 
provisional decision. 
But all the transactions he has listed are from after the application date of both loans - as are 
all credits relating to his income. They do not evidence the financial duress from the time of 
either application that Mr L referred to when he brought his complaint to this service. And as 
I said in my provisional decision his statements from the time do not show he was using an 
overdraft facility, or payday loans, or multiple credit cards  some of the typical signs of 
financial difficulties. Rather it seems he is now confirming he had the capacity to save via the 
stokvel.
Mr L also reiterated he was unhappy with the high interest rates. I addressed this in my 
provisional decision and as neither party has provided any new information on this point my 
finding is unchanged  this is set out above in the final paragraph of the extract from my 
provisional decision.  
It follows I have found no grounds to change the outcome I set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman