DRN-4146412
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed its 
current account and terminated its Bounce Back Loan facility.
Mr K is Rs director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr K took control of R and became its sole director in 2019. Prior to this change, sole 
ownership and control of the company rested with Mr Y. 
R banked with HSBC and held a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan with it. Mr Y also banked with 
HSBC in a personal capacity, until the bank decided to end its relationship with him and 
closed his accounts in 2020.
Following a review of its relationship with R, HSBC decided to withdraw its services from the 
company. It wrote to R on 10 February 2021 to advise that it would be closing the companys 
current account on 15 April 2021.
HSBC restricted the account balance, of around £45,000, pending the closure of the 
account. 
On 26 April, HSBC wrote to R to advise it was also terminating the companys Bounce Back 
Loan facility. The following day, it applied £41,848.49 of the funds to settle the outstanding 
loan balance. Rs account was subsequently closed on or around 5 May, when HSBC 
released the closing balance to R.
R doesnt think HSBC has acted fairly. In summary, it says:
HSBC hadnt explained why it had closed Rs account, but the company suspected 
this was a consequence of its decision to end its relationship with Mr Y. That being 
the case, HSBC hadnt acted fairly  as Mr Y had long since resigned as a director of 
the company, was a separate legal entity to R and the closure of his bank account 
shouldnt have had any bearing on Rs position.
The subsequent decision to terminate Rs Bounce Back Loan was a breach of 
contract. The terms of the agreement only provided for its cancellation in certain 
circumstances, and none applied here.
HSBC had deprived the company of its own funds, by withholding the account 
balance and then using the majority of it to settle the Bounce Back Loan.
This had caused the company some difficulty in its day-to-day operations, leaving it 
unable to meet all of its obligations and incurring additional costs as a result.
HSBC has maintained its position. It says that it was entitled to end its relationship with R 
and that it withdrew both facilities in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions.
My provisional findings
Following my initial review of the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
thought the complaint should be upheld. In short, while I thought that HSBC had been 
entitled to close Rs current account, Id not seen that HSBC had sufficient grounds to 
terminate the Bounce Back Loan and demand its immediate repayment. So I thought HSBC 
should reinstate the loan and return the balance to R, and compensate the company for 
being deprived the use of the funds and for the inconvenience it had been caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any further information they wanted me to consider 
before I made a final decision. Both parties duly responded with further comments and 
information, with neither accepting my provisional findings.
After considering the complaint afresh in light of the further information I received, I issued a 
second provisional decision as I no longer thought the complaint should be upheld. This 
again gave the parties the opportunity to respond with anything else they wanted me to take 
into account before making a final decision. 
In my second provisional decision, I said:
As I set out in my first provisional decision, HSBC was entitled to close Rs current 
account. Broadly speaking, banks can choose who they do business with and when 
to end a relationship  just as a customer can choose who to bank with, and when to 
move elsewhere. As a minimum, a bank must close a customers account in a way 
that complies with the applicable terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions of Rs account said that HSBC could close or withdraw any 
service by giving at least two months notice. The bank seems to have satisfied this 
requirement by writing to R on 10 February to advise it would close the account on 
15 April (and in the event, it only closed the account sometime later). This gave R a 
reasonable amount of time to make alternative arrangements.
I say that HSBC only seems to have satisfied the requirement for notice, as the bank 
didnt allow R to access its funds during this notice period. HSBC ultimately used the 
majority of the funds to settle the Bounce Back Loan, following its termination and 
demand for repayment in full. In my first provisional decision, I said I didnt think the 
termination of the Bounce Back Loan was reasonable  meaning that I also didnt 
think this restriction on Rs use of its funds was reasonable either. But Ive reached a 
different view on the banks termination of the loan, which I no longer think was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. In light of that, I think HSBC was justified in 
restricting Rs use of the funds in the account so that it could recover the full amount 
owing on the Bounce Back Loan. Ill come on to this point in more detail below, after 
looking at the termination of the loan itself.
As I explained in my first provisional decision, the terms and conditions of the Bounce 
Back Loan agreement gave HSBC the power to terminate the loan facility and 
demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. So it had the contractual 
right to take the action it did. I didnt initially think that it had been reasonable for the 
bank to have exercised this right, based on what I had seen. But in light of the banks 
response to my provisional findings and the further evidence Ive received, Ive 
reflected on this and reached a different view. Having carefully considered the 
rationale for the banks decision and reviewed its supporting evidence, I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to recall the loan. HSBC isnt required to disclose its rationale to R. I cant compel it to do so, with such 
matters being subject to some legitimate confidentiality. I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to share this in any detail within my decision either. 
I fully appreciate that it will be difficult for Mr K, and Mr Y who has assisted Mr K in 
bringing the complaint, to accept the position without knowing the banks reasons. I 
would like to reassure them, though, that from what Ive seen, the banks decision to 
withdraw its services from R wasnt simply a consequence of its decision to end its 
prior relationship with Mr Y as they initially feared. The bank conducted a full review 
of the matter beyond that decision, and Im satisfied that it had legitimate grounds to 
take the action it did.
Having terminated the facility in accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement, the outstanding balance of the loan became immediately due and 
payable. HSBC used the funds in Rs bank account to repay the amount it was owed 
under the loan agreement. It was entitled to do this under the terms and conditions of 
both the account and the loan (which gave the bank what is known as the right of set 
off). So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in using Rs funds in this way  or in 
restricting Rs use of the funds while they remained in the account, pending this 
action. And I dont think there was any undue delay in how the bank handled this, 
including the release of the remaining funds in the account to R once the loan had 
been settled.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, particularly in light of my 
initial findings. But based on everything Ive now seen, I dont think HSBC did 
anything wrong in how it withdrew the account or Bounce Back Loan from R  so Im 
no longer recommending that the bank take any steps to compensate the company 
for the impact this had.
HSBC responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
In his response, Mr K highlighted that my second provisional decision represented a 
departure from the first  and queried how he could appeal what Id said without seeing what 
HSBC had said or provided to me. He also said that even if HSBC was entitled to withdraw 
the Bounce Back Loan, it ought to have assisted R in making other arrangements as it had a 
duty of care to the company  particularly as the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was a 
government-backed initiative to help businesses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen reason to depart from the findings I set out in my second 
provisional decision. 
There has been little by way of further information for me to consider. I appreciate Mr Ks 
point that it is very difficult for him to challenge or appeal the basis of my findings if he cant 
see the information from HSBC that has led me to those conclusions. But as I said in my 
second provisional decision, the basis of the banks decision is subject to some legitimate 
confidentiality. The rules under which we operate  specifically DISP 3.5.9(2)  allow us to 
accept information in confidence, and I consider it appropriate for us to have done so in the 
circumstances here.As I said when setting out my revised findings, I fully appreciate that this will make my 
decision all the more difficult to accept. I can only hope that Mr K may at least take some 
comfort from the fact that HSBCs actions have been thoroughly investigated and reviewed 
by us, as an independent and impartial third party.
Ive also considered what Mr K has said about HSBC having a broader duty of care to R, 
such that it ought to have done more to alleviate the impact of the withdrawal of the Bounce 
Back Loan. But I dont think that any duty of care the bank owed R meant that it needed to 
offer some sort of other product or service as Mr K has suggested, or that it bears any 
responsibility for any of the costs or other consequences that R may have incurred as a 
result of the banks legitimate termination of the loan.
So I remain of the view that HSBC didnt do anything wrong in its withdrawal of Rs account 
or Bounce Back Loan, and am not requiring it to take any action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman