DRN-3021811
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag has not reimbursed 
her for the cost of a replacement battery following a service received under a breakdown 
policy she held with it.
What happened
On 17 February 2021 Mrs W was having trouble starting her car so she called Green Flag 
for assistance. A technician was arranged to look at Mrs Ws car the following day.
The technician checked Mrs Ws car battery and advised it needed to be replaced. Mrs W 
had a conversation with the technician and a replacement battery was arranged. Mrs W has 
told us that the technician gave options of a battery supplied by Halfords with a three-year 
guarantee for £90, or a more expensive option that cost £107, but that the battery would 
have a longer four-year guarantee.
Mrs W agreed to the more expensive option, but when the technician fitted the battery, he 
explained the guarantee was only for three-years. The technician denied saying the battery 
would have a four-year guarantee, and it came to light that the battery had not been 
provided by Halfords as Mrs W had assumed.
After a call to Halfords Mrs W was told a suitable battery was available for her car at a cost 
of £65 with a three-year guarantee, or £85 with a five-year guarantee. Mrs Ws husband also 
considered the results of the battery test carried out by the technician and said the battery 
didnt need replacement and a simple battery charge could have resolved the problem. 
Mrs W also complained that her original battery was not returned to her following her request 
to have it returned.
Mrs W feels the technician was dis-honest and treated her unfairly. Green Flag has 
explained that the service provided by the technician arranging the battery replacement was 
not provided under the policy. This service was an arrangement between Mrs W and the 
technician, so it was not responsible.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs W 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Green Flag has explained that the service provided by the technician of arranging a 
replacement battery was an arrangement between Mrs W and the technician directly. The 
service was not provided under the policy Mrs W held with Green Flag and therefore it was 
not responsible.
I have considered what Green Flag has said inline with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws 
policy. 
Its clear that the advice given to Mrs W that her car battery needed to be replaced was part 
of the service provided under Mrs Ws Green Flag policy. I have looked at the test results 
provided by the battery check carried out by the technician. The results stated that the state 
of charge was 0% and also bad & replace. Based on the evidence available I think it was 
reasonable for the technician to conclude Mrs Ws car battery needed to be replaced.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy state that the following is not covered:
 any costs that you have agreed separately with the recovery agent for additional
services that are not covered by this policy, and, oil, materials, or parts costs.
I think an arrangement was made independently of Mrs Ws Green Flag policy to replace her 
car battery. As the service wasnt provided under the policy, I am unable to hold Green Flag 
responsible for anything related to it. 
And while Mrs Ws original car battery should have been returned upon her request, the 
evidence provided about the battery shows it needed to be replaced. So, I dont think Mrs W 
has lost out by not having the battery returned to her.
Overall, I think the service provided under the Green Flag policy was reasonable so, I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman