DRN-3736156
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2022, Mrs N received a phone call from someone claiming to be a bailiff. The 
caller said they were acting on behalf of a court and would be arriving at Mrs Ns property 
shortly to collect money she had been found to owe to an advertising company. 
Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
Mrs N was given a phone number for the court and, when she called this number, the person 
she spoke to confirmed she owed money but said she may be able to arrange a pre-
enforcement settlement to pay a smaller amount. She was then sent a number of 
documents, supposedly from the court, showing the money she owed and the amount she 
could pay now as settlement. And, after checking the company she was supposed to owe 
and the name of the bailiff shed been speaking to, Mrs N sent a payment of £2,872 to the 
bank account details she was given for the court accountant.
The scam was uncovered a few days later when Mrs N didnt receive further paperwork she 
was told she would be sent. She then contacted Santander to report the scam and ask it to 
refund the money she had lost. Santander investigated and said it didnt do everything it 
should have done before making the payment, but that Mrs N also could have done more to 
check who she was paying. So it refunded 50% of the amount she lost. Mrs N wasnt 
satisfied with Santanders response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Ns complaint. They didnt think Mrs N had a 
reasonable basis for believing what she had been told by the scammers. So they thought 
Santanders refund of 50% of the money she lost was fair. Mrs N disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mrs N fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mrs N have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
This was a cruel and sophisticated scam and I appreciate that Mrs N spoke to several 
people as part of it, was sent several documents to help convince her it was genuine and did 
some checks herself. But there were also a number of things which I think should have 
caused her concern about what was happening.
Mrs N was told the money she owed was to an advertising company connected to an online 
search engine. But shes told us she wasnt aware of setting up any advertising with the 
company or the search engine. And she hadnt previously received any communication 
about any debt she owed. So I think being contacted about this unexpectedly should have 
caused her significant concern.
Mrs N has also told us that, before making the payment, she spoke to the company that runs 
her website. And they told her there were no payments or charges outstanding. So I think 
this should have made Mrs N question what she was being told about owing a debt.
The phone number that Mrs N was initially called from was also a mobile number, rather 
than a business number. And while the number she was given for the court was similar to 
the phone number showing on the courts website, it wasnt the same number. And Mrs N 
chose to call the court about the payment on the number the caller gave her, rather than the 
number from the website.
The bank account details Mrs N was asked to make the payment to were also for an 
individual, rather than for the court itself or for a business. And while Mrs N says she did 
question this, she doesnt appear to have been given a particularly thorough or clear 
explanation for why this was.
So I think there were a number of things about what Mrs N was told that should have caused 
her significant concern about what was happening. From what shes said throughout the 
complaint, its clear she had concerns herself too. And I dont think the explanations she was 
given by the scammers, the checks she did herself or the documents she was sent should 
have been enough to overcome those concerns. The scam was also carried out over a 
number of phone calls, and Mrs N had time to call her website provider. So I think she had 
time to stop and consider what was happening before making the payment.
I therefore think Santander has established that Mrs N didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief when making the payment.Did Santander meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mrs N had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if Santander didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.
Santander has accepted that it didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code, and so has 
already refunded 50% of the money Mrs N lost. So I dont need to consider this any further.
Overall then, I think Santander has established that Mrs N didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief when making the payment, but that Santander also didnt meet its obligations under 
the CRM code. I therefore think Santanders refund of 50% of the money Mrs N lost is fair 
and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Mrs N has mentioned potential, future changes to how banks are expected to deal with the 
victims of scams. But I can only apply the rules and standards that were in place at the time. 
So I dont think it would be fair to apply any potential, future standard to Santander here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman