DRN-1428516
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
I know Ms W has complained about other PPI policies so to be clear, in this decision Im 
addressing the policy Ms W took out with a store card on 14 March 2003. The credit facility 
was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a change in the company which is 
now responsible for answering these types of complaint. The company now responsible is 
called AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.  
What happened
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Ms W says she doesnt remember being told much about it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Ms W disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the 
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So 
we now know consumers were asked to fill out an application which was usually part of a 
wider leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what 
the applicant was given to complete. 
I was sent the credit agreement Ms W filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited her to either sign 
her name - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Ms W signed at this point, so I think this suggests that she did want PPI when she applied 
for her card. Because I also think she would have had access to the terms and conditions as 
Ive described above, I think she consented to the PPI cover when she signed at this point. I 
think shed have been equally free to not have asked for the PPI.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Ms W to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge 
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Ms W had access to enough information to allow her to make an informed 
decision. 
Ms W told us she only had statutory sickness protection with her job, so I think the PPI policy 
could have been of use. Ive also checked that Ms W was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The cost of 
the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more 
protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her 
job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until 
she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero These benefits wouldve 
been in addition to any other means Ms W had in place at the time.
For me to uphold Ms Ws complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Ms W specifically selected the 
PPI and had access nearby to the information she needed about the PPI policy and its rules. 
And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information wouldve changed 
how Ms W acted. 
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws mis-sale complaint and I dont require 
AXA France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman