DRN-1705763
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services, should make a refund to him based on the mileage that hes paid for under a hire 
agreement but not used. 
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr L under a hire agreement with Audi Financial Services that he 
signed in April 2016. He agreed to make an advance rental payment of £6,719.92 and then 
23 monthly payments of £676.96. He also agreed to make 24 monthly payments of £78.42 
for maintenance charges. The agreement also said that the maximum annual mileage 
allowance was 15,000 (there was also a total mileage limit) and that excess mileage charges 
would be charged for mileage above that. 
The agreement was extended and when Mr L returned the car it was inspected by a third 
party on behalf of Audi Financial Services in June 2019. The inspection report recorded the 
cars mileage as being 44,196 and identified damage with an estimated cost of £772.20. 
Mr L was charged for the damage but when he complained about the charge, Audi Financial 
Services agreed to reduce the charge to £312. 
Mr L then complained to this service and Audi Financial Services agreed to reduce the 
charge to £276. The investigator thought that the charges of £276 had been applied correctly 
and he said that he was unable to support Mr Ls argument that he should be reimbursed for 
covering less miles than the maximum allowed under his agreement. 
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has accepted the 
investigators findings in respect of wear and tear cost but he says that a refund equal to 
the mileage not used but paid for isnt unreasonable. He says that otherwise Audi Financial 
Services receives full lease costs, plus an increased value when the cars sold at auction 
because of its lower mileage, which isnt equitable and is a clear example of unjust 
enrichment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Audi Financial Services has reduced the charge for damage to the car to £276 and Mr L has 
accepted that charge  so Im not going to consider the charge for damage any further.
Mr L signed the hire agreement in April 2016. Immediately above his signature it said: 
This is a Hire Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if 
you want to be legally bound by its terms.
The agreement set out the payments that Ive described above that Mr L agreed to make to 
Audi Financial Services for it to supply the car to him. He agreed to pay the advance rental 
and the monthly rental payments for the car to be supplied to him and those payments were 
payable whatever mileage he drove in the car (he also agreed to pay the monthly 
maintenance charge).
The agreement also contained detailed provisions about the excess mileage charge that 
would be payable if Mr L exceeded the maximum annual mileage or the maximum total 
mileage. But there was no provision in the agreement for any refund to be made to Mr L if he 
drove the car for less than those mileages.
The cars mileage was 44,196 when it was inspected and Mr L says that the maximum total 
mileage was 50,000 so he should receive a refund of the mileage for the difference between 
those amounts. But hed signed the agreement which made no provision for such a payment 
and I dont consider that theres any requirement for Audi Financial Services to make a 
refund to Mr L. 
Audi Financial Services has applied the terms of the agreement and I dont consider that it 
has benefitted from any unjust enrichment. So I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to make any refund to Mr L  or to 
take any other action in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman