DRN-3723681
The complaint
Mrs E complains about an unsuccessful chargeback request made on her behalf by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mrs E complained to Santander that she shouldnt be held liable for £1,800 she had paid a 
company that I will call T for some upholstery and soft furnishings for her caravan. 
Santander, to assist Mrs E, raised a chargeback, but this was unsuccessful. 
Santander then referred the claim to arbitration. However, this was unsuccessful also. 
Having been unsuccessful at arbitration, Santander decided to hold Mrs E liable for the 
disputed £1,800. It debited this sum to Mrs Es account having previously credited it to her 
account whilst her dispute was under investigation. 
Mrs Es complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Santander 
had done nothing wrong. However, Mrs E  asked that her complaint be reconsidered, as she 
is entitled to do, by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Where there is a dispute, the card issuer may raise a chargeback under the relevant card 
scheme. Chargebacks are decided on the card schemes rules  in this case Mastercard. 
Mastercard set out the rules of the scheme that the bank follows. 
Santanders role in this matter was to see if they could assist Mrs E in recovering the sum 
paid to T of £1,800. A chargeback isnt a guarantee of getting the customer their money 
back. Before a bank can raise a chargeback the customer needs to provide certain 
information and meet the criteria set out in the scheme rules. Once all the criteria are met 
the bank uses the scheme to get in touch with the merchant, in this case T. The merchant is 
then given a chance to defend its position and provide supporting documents.  
Thats what appears to have happened here. T responded to Santander providing evidence 
it had completed its contractual obligations to Mrs E or, were prepared to do so. 
However, Santander then referred the dispute to arbitration, something thats not very 
common. This is the final stage of the chargeback process and unfortunately for Mrs E this 
proved unsuccessful. 
I understand Mrs E feels strongly about this matter. But Im satisfied on the evidence Ive 
seen that Santander did all it reasonably could in this case.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Im also satisfied that Santander has treated 
Mrs E fairly in the debiting back to her account of the £1,800. Ive come to this conclusion 
having had regard, amongst other things, to the fact that Mrs E was advised by Santander 
that this was always a possibility and given it gave her 14 days notice before doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman