DRN-1985034
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont meet her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, after windows she had fitted were faulty. The bank trades in this 
case under its Halifax brand.  
What happened
In December 2018 Ms S had new windows supplied and fitted by a company, A. Ms S used 
her Halifax credit card to make three payments to A, totalling £4,000. 
Ms S was unhappy with the work, in particular with the installation of one window. She 
contacted Halifax  as her credit card provider  when she was unable to resolve the matter 
directly with A. 
Halifax considered Ms Ss claim and offered her a £500 payment as a gesture of goodwill. 
Alternatively, it said that Ms S could obtain an independent report on the windows and it 
would consider the matter further. Ms S accepted the offer of £500 and Halifax made the 
payment in August 2019. 
A few months later, Ms S obtained a second opinion on the windows. She was advised that 
one window needed replacing at a cost of between £1,000 and £2,000. Having received that 
advice, Ms S asked Halifax to re-open her case. 
Halifax declined to do so. It said the case had been resolved when Ms S accepted its offer of 
settlement. 
Ms S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
didnt believe that there was sufficient evidence to show that there was a breach of contract 
on the part of A and that the banks settlement offer was therefore reasonable. She said too 
that it was reasonable of Halifax not to pursue a refund through the chargeback process. 
Ms S didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss agreement with A was to be read as including a term that the windows would be of 
satisfactory quality and that they would be installed with reasonable care and skill. Her 
complaint here is largely about the installation. 
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, if the windows werent 
installed with reasonable care and skill, Ms S would have a claim for breach of contract 
against Halifax, as well as against A. The investigator discussed in her assessment whether 
there was sufficient evidence about the installation to support Ms Ss claim but concluded 
there was not. She also discussed chargeback, which she described as a voluntary process. 
In my view, however, theres a more fundamental difficulty that Ms S faces here. It is that, 
having made a complaint to Halifax, shes accepted an offer of settlement. Halifax has paid 
what it offered and Ms S accepted. Ms S could have rejected that offer and sought a larger 
payment  through this service or otherwise. She could have obtained more evidence about 
the quality of the work and presented that to Halifax. Instead, she decided to accept the offer 
that had been made  for understandable reasons. 
Im required to decide Ms Ss complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Having accepted an offer of settlement, I dont believe it 
would be fair of Ms S subsequently to seek more  any more than it would be fair of Halifax 
to seek repayment if it later thought it had paid too much. In saying that, I note that theres 
no suggestion that Ms S was pressured into accepting the offer; shes simply found out that 
rectifying the problem might cost more than she accepted.
For these reasons, I dont believe I need to comment any further on the underlying issues 
with the windows or their installation. Ms S and Halifax agreed the terms on which they 
would resolve their dispute and I dont believe I should require Halifax to offer a different 
resolution. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to resolve Ms 
Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms 
S to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman