DRN-2372498
The complaint
Mr B complains that Specialist Lending Limited wont cancel a loan agreement he took out to 
fund an educational programme.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B approached a company Ill refer to as E to provide his daughter with 
additional tutoring support for school. He says his daughter had additional learning needs 
and wanted to find something that would support her schooling and ensure she didnt fall 
behind. E visited them at home to talk through the programme, which in summary, provided 
online tuition for maths and English for school age children. It also provided ad-hoc one to 
one support from a tutor over the phone if a child was stuck on a particular online module.
Mr B says he was presented with two payment options, a pay-as-you-go or a lifetime 
licence. He says he told E that he only wanted to pay for the programme for two to three 
years so that it would last until his daughter started secondary school. He says E told him 
the pay-as-you-go option was more expensive and they persuaded him to opt for the lifetime 
licence instead.
Mr B says he read the paperwork carefully and noticed it said he couldnt cancel the lifetime 
licence after the first 14 days. He says he told E this wouldnt be suitable for him as he would 
be tied into paying for it for five years, which was more than he wanted. Mr B says E 
reassured him many times that they could find a way to cancel the finance before the end 
of the five year agreement. On this basis Mr B says he signed the contract paperwork 
agreeing to take out the lifetime licence.
The lifetime licence was to be paid for through a fixed-sum loan agreement with 
Specialist Lending. The total cost of the lifetime licence was £5,668. Mr B paid a deposit of 
£283.41 and the remainder would be repaid to Specialist Lending, interest free over 60 
months. The monthly repayments were around £90.
In around October 2019, Mr B contacted E and asked to cancel the programme. He said his 
daughter hadnt been using the programme and wasnt finding it helpful. E said that Mr B 
couldnt cancel because more than 14 days had passed since he signed up for the 
programme. Mr B raised a complaint which E didnt uphold. He referred his complaint about 
E (in its capacity as a credit broker) to our service but soon afterwards E had ceased trading 
and gone into administration. The complaint was therefore directed against 
Specialist Lending instead, as the finance provider.
I sent Mr B and Specialist Lending my provisional decision on 10 November 2020. I said why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. An extract of my provisional findings are below:
Mr B accepts he signed the paperwork and understood he was entering into a loan 
agreement. Its generally held that where someone signs a document they are taken to have 
read and understood it. The documentation I think makes it clear that Mr B had 14 days 
within which to cancel and he couldnt do so beyond this timeframe. Mr B appears to accept 
this was clear in the paperwork too and he says this is why he sought assurances from the 
salesperson. My starting point is therefore that Mr B had read and understood what he was 
signing for.
Specialist Lending says that because Mr B did sign the documents and appears to have 
understood them, theres nothing further to contest or consider. But I dont think thats 
necessarily the case. While what has been written and signed generally represents what 
was agreed by both parties, that isnt always the case. Clearly verbal discussions were had 
between Mr B and Es salesperson, and its during these discussions that misunderstandings 
can occur. Its also possible that incorrect or misleading information is provided during those 
discussions.
As Ive mentioned above, Mr B says he noticed the cancellation period was 14 days and 
sought assurances from the salesperson. He says this was because he says hed been led 
to believe he could cancel at any time but the paperwork appeared to contradict this. Mr B 
says the salesperson confirmed several times that if Mr B wanted to cancel two or three 
years into the lifetime licence that they would find a way for that to happen.
Im also mindful of the fact that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  E and Specialist 
Lendings regulator  wrote to credit brokers earlier this year outlining some key risks for 
them to consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements 
with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices 
unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer 
outcomes. It highlighted in particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as 
presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially where sales took place without 
appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, 
but Im mindful of the fact that Es sale to Mr B fit at least some of the criteria the FCA 
identified as presenting a high risk of mis-selling: E brokered a credit agreement between 
Mr B and Specialist Lending in order to sell him a product, in his home.
But just because the FCA has highlighted this as a concern, it doesnt automatically follow 
that in Mr Bs case he was misled into signing the agreement. Ive therefore considered the 
other available evidence to determine whether I think its likely Mr B was misled by E. In 
doing so Ive reviewed the contemporaneous documents which include the Customer 
Clarification and Satisfaction form, the loan agreement and the programme order form. Ive 
thought about what Mr B has told us of his recollections of the sale and whether theres 
anything within the paperwork or elsewhere that might support his version of events. Mr B 
has been very clear and specific regarding what he needed from the programme. Hes said 
he needed the flexibility to cancel within two to three years as he said after that time his 
daughter would be starting secondary school and he was only looking to provide additional 
support until that time. In essence, he says this wasnt intended to be a long term 
arrangement, nor one which would extend to secondary school.
However, the programme order form doesnt support what Mr B has said. The form lists the 
various modules that Mr B has opted to pay for as part of the lifetime licence. Mr B had a 
choice as to which modules to select as the more modules he chose, the more expensive 
the programme would be and indeed not every module was selected. Each of the modules 
corresponds to various school key stages  or which year group it was appropriate for. 
Mr Bs daughter was in key stage 2, and Mr B says his intention was only to provide support 
up until she started secondary school, or in other words the end of key stage 2. If this was 
the case I would have expected the order form to include only key stage 2 modules.
The order form includes key stage 2 modules but it also includes modules in key stage 3 and 
even key stage 4 as well as an additional GCSE revision module. So it seems Mr B had 
selected modules that would provide support for his daughter several years beyond the two 
or three he said he wanted the programme for. In addition, it seems Mr Bs daughter only had one year left at first school at the time he signed up to the programme, so the rationale 
hes given of why he wanted it for two to three years only doesnt appear to be supported by 
the wider evidence and circumstances.
Despite this discrepancy, Ive also thought about what Mr B says the salesperson told him. 
Ive listened to calls between Mr B and Specialist Lending as well as those he had with our 
investigator. Mr B has been consistent throughout in what he says happened. He says the 
salesperson assured him they would find a way to cancel the finance agreement if Mr B 
wanted to cancel it early.
Even if I accept that the salesperson did say this to Mr B, Im not persuaded that it would 
have been reasonable for him to have relied on those assurances. I say this because the 
way Mr B has described the conversation, its clear he was suspicious of what he was told, 
and further, the assurances were rather vague.
In any event, Mr B says he was sufficiently reassured by the salesperson so that is why he 
signed the paperwork. But given the importance that Mr B says the cancellation terms were 
to him, Ive considered that it ought to have been reasonable for him to have sought those 
assurances in writing, in case of a later dispute. His decision not to do so doesnt help his 
case and particularly so because the order form appears to contradict what hes told us 
about his intentions around the programme.
While its possible Mr B was misled regarding his cancellation rights, Im not persuaded, on 
balance, that he was. This is because while hes been consistent in his recollections of what 
happened during the sales process, what hes said is inconsistent with the selections he 
made regarding the programme modules. Based on the module selections it appears his 
intention was to take out the programme for at least the duration of the loan agreement, if 
not longer.
This inconsistency means Ive placed less weight on what he says happened than I might 
otherwise have done. Overall, Im satisfied the paperwork is clear regarding Mr Bs 
cancellation rights and Ive not seen anything that has persuaded me that he was more likely 
than not to have been misled regarding those rights. For that reason, I dont think 
Specialist Lending have acted unfairly or unreasonably in not cancelling the loan agreement.
Both Mr B and Specialist Lending accepted my provisional decision and had no further 
comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, I see no reason to come to 
a different conclusion to what I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman