DRN-4035303
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined to renew to their 
home insurance policy.  
All references to UKI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Insurers can decide the terms under which they wish to provide insurance cover. It 
isnt for this service to interfere in those terms. However, where an insurer has 
decided to withdraw cover based on those terms, this service can consider whether it 
has done so in a fair and reasonable way. 
UKI has provided confidential information to this service from its underwriters. That 
information confirms it would not offer cover to Mr and Mrs M at renewal for the 
reasons previously provided to Mr and Mrs M. As such, I cant say UKI has done 
anything wrong or acted unreasonably in not offering to renew cover.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M werent aware the number of claims they made, could 
potentially impact future cover  and they had other insurance policies they could 
have used in the circumstances, had they known. But as this relates to UKIs 
underwriting criteria, and this information is generally commercially sensitive, I 
wouldnt expect UKI to have made Mr and Mrs M aware.
I understand it would have come as a shock to Mr and Mrs M to be told their cover 
wouldnt be renewed - and the letter they received didnt offer detail as to why, so I 
can understand their frustration. I can see when Mr and Mrs M contacted UKI, further 
explanation was given, but for the reasons set out above, I dont think UKI acted 
unreasonably in not disclosing this in their letter. 
The date of the letter was around one month before the expiry of the policy, but Mr 
and Mrs M only received the letter around 10 days before the expiry of the policy. 
UKI agreed to provide a further two-week extension to Mr and Mrs M to find cover 
elsewhere, which it says it hasnt charged Mr and Mrs M for. In the circumstances, I 
think this fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman