DRN-3944483
The complaint
Mr W has complained about advice received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out an 
endowment policy in 1993. 
Mr W is being represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For 
ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr W. 
What happened
Mr W took out an endowment policy after taking advice from Phoenix in 1993. Phoenix at the 
time called the policy a Capital Investment Plan. Mr W paid a single premium of £8,500 and 
the term of the policy was 10 years. The policy would provide Mr W with a sum assured of 
£10,469 if he were to die or at the end of the policy. 
The policy was surrendered in November 2002, shortly before the term ended and Mr W 
received £14,900. 
Mr W complained to Phoenix saying there was no explanation of how the plan worked or 
whether he was provided with documentation from it to read and review.  He said he was 
unsure he was able to invest the sum he did, and he didnt understand the nature of the 
investment he was making. He said he did not know if any alternative plans were discussed. 
He asked for the premiums to be refunded with interest.
 
Phoenix said the policy was designed to provide a sum assured in the event of death or at 
the end of term. It said its adviser carried out a client profile and found that Mr Ws priority at 
that time was that his family would be secure and to provide an amount in retirement. It said 
at that time it would have been reasonable advice to recommend this policy as it met his 
identified need. 
Mr W remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They didnt uphold the complaint saying they were 
satisfied the policy was suitable. They said Mr Ws priority identified by Phoenix was to 
provide a sum for his family or an amount in retirement. They also concluded that the policy 
wasnt unaffordable for Mr W as they could see or that the policy was too risky in anyway. 
Mr W disagreed. So as Mr Ws complaint hasnt been resolved between the parties, it has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said there has been no explanation from Phoenix about how the policy worked or 
whether he was provided with documentation to read and review. 
Given that the policy was sold in 1993 and surrendered in 2002 I dont think its 
unreasonable that Phoenix doesnt hold all the documentation from the time of sale. This is 
quite some time ago and so its not unusual for some of the paperwork to no longer be 
available. In these circumstances it wouldnt be fair of me to decide that Phoenix had done 
something wrong simply because they were, understandably, unable to provide certain 
documentation about how the policy worked. 
But what I do have to look through is a proposal form and a client profile that the adviser 
from Phoenix completed when they discussed with Mr W his needs. It has been useful for 
me to look through these documents. I can see from the answers the adviser recorded down 
that they ended up recommending the endowment policy and Mr W took it up. So, it has 
been useful to read this, to give me an idea about what the parties discussed at the time.
What I have been able to see on this form is that Mr W was married and was employed. The 
policy was for a sum assured of £10,469. The form also showed that Mr W had limited 
savings of between £2,000 and £5,000 and didnt have a mortgage.
 
I can see that the adviser wasnt able to record down Mr Ws salary and it is unclear as to 
whether he held any debt at the time. I also cant be sure what was discussed between the 
parties at that time but based on what was recorded down on the form, I havent seen 
enough that would suggest to me Mr W had issues with affordability. At least not enough that 
would make the policy unsuitable for him. 
It looks to me, on balance, that Mr Ws needs were taken into consideration including 
affordability and the adviser went ahead and recommended an endowment policy, that 
wouldve met his needs. On the form I can see that Mr W had prioritised financial security for 
his family along with retirement and his needs were reflected in the policy the adviser 
recommended for him.
I wasnt party to conversation when the advice was given but I think, on balance, it is 
reasonable to assume that the long-term nature of the policy was discussed and taken into 
consideration. To uphold this complaint and say that policy was mis-sold I would need to be 
persuaded that the policy was unsuitable. And I havent seen any persuasive evidence to 
show thats the case. 
The policy was seemingly what Mr W wanted at the time. Having carefully considered 
everything Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr W and provided the cover he required 
at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman