DRN-3972955
The complaint
Mrs P and Ms N complain on behalf of the estate of the late Mr P. They complain that 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) mis-sold Mr P three bonds. They say he was told 
his investments were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and protected by 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And that Mr P was told his 
investments held a high-level of security and were minimal risk.  
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr P invested in three B&G Plc 3-Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bonds. One in April 
2017 for £15,240, one in May 2017 for £20,000 and one in August 2017 for £12,090.
Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business 
from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications 
for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to 
discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ps investment in the bonds
Mrs P and Ms N on behalf of Mr P explained he came across the website after searching 
online for products with good interest rates. Mr P completed his online application on 4 April 
2017.
Mrs P and Ms N say Mr P had some investment experience, but was a low-risk investor. 
They say he had previous experience investing in insurance company bonds and cash ISAs. 
Mrs P and Ms N say Mr P understood the bonds held a high level of security and were 
minimal risk. They say he believed he was protected as the bonds were asset-backed and 
covered by the FCA and FSCS.
Whilst there are some call recordings between Mr P and Gallium, these dont include the 
date of the sale, so Ive not relied on them.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck 
went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, the estate of Mr P has not had his invested capital returned.
The application process
Mr P completed his initial online application on 4 April 2017. Although there is no 
confirmation as to how Mr P completed his May 2017 application, Im satisfied this is likely to 
have also been completed online. I can see Mr P completed a paper application for his 
August 2017 ISA transfer that was signed on 21 July 2017.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show 
the application journey that Mr P underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mr P was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was 
the appropriateness test. 
The ISA transfer took place in August 2017 after Mr P had already previously applied online 
in April 2017. Ive also seen copies of the paper application form which shows a transfer 
from Mr Ps previous ISA provider to B&G Ltd. This was completed by Mr P and signed on 
21 July 2017. Mr P completed a five-question appropriateness test as part of this application. 
However, this was completed after hed already gone through the online process in April 
2017 as detailed above.
Galliums response to Mr Ps complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P had been given sufficient informaiton 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ps 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr P as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr P wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr P to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate 
the estate of Mr P for the loss suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ps complaint
Regardless of label, Mr P was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr P giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers - and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr P made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr P into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr P fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr P, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr P. In the 
circumstances Mr P would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr P.
Ive also considered the ISA transfer application and am not persuaded it was 
fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to proceed. Mr P was only asked to complete the 
transfer form after hed completed the full online application process and would not 
have reached this point had he not certified himself online as a restricted 
(everyday) investor.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that the estate of Mr 
Ps complaint should be upheld. Im also satisfied Mr P would either not have proceeded 
to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask 
Gallium to compensate the estate of Mr P for its loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate of Mr P in as close to the position it would now be in if Mr P had not invested in 
these inappropriate investments.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what Mr P would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate the estate of Mr P fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr P's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3-Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond - 
April 2017Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s acceptance)
3-Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond - 
May 2017Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
3-Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond- 
August 2017Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided the personal representatives of the 
estate of Mr P agree to Gallium taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not 
possible for Gallium to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from the 
personal representatives of the estate of Mr P that they repay to Gallium any amount they 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without taking a significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr P would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to the estate of Mr P 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman