DRN-2505372
The complaint
Mr P complains that the damage charges applied to his account after he returned the car he 
had acquired under a Personal Contract Plan (the agreement) with Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) were unfair.
What happened
Mr P entered into an agreement with MBFS in August 2017 to acquire a car. In 2020 he 
voluntarily terminated the agreement. The car was returned, and an inspection was carried 
out dated 5 August 2020. This identified damage to the car and charges were applied. Mr P 
didnt accept that the damage charge for the soft top roof was fair. He says the tear on the 
roof was due to usual wear and tear. He says this was a fault with his car and that he didnt 
cause any damage and so shouldnt have to pay for this.
MBFS says that the damage to the soft roof top was correctly identified and was 
unacceptable under its vehicle return conditions. It says the issue wasnt due to a 
manufacturing fault.
Mr P said the damage may not have been due to a manufacturing issue but was a fault on 
his car as the tear was at the crease where the roof folds into the boot. He said the issue 
was due to wear and tear. Because of this he didnt accept MBFS final response and 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that MBFS could charge for damage 
that wasnt considered fair wear and tear under the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines. He noted that Mr P had only disputed the charge for the 
damage to the roof and so didnt consider the other charges. Our investigator thought the 
damage to the roof fell outside of the guidelines and didnt find any evidence of a fault and 
so thought MBFS hadnt done anything wrong by applying this charge.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P entered an agreement to acquire a car. He then terminated the agreement and the car 
was returned and inspected. This is in line with the terms of the agreement.
The inspection took place on 5 August 2020. The inspection report identified damage which 
was then charged for. Mr P has only challenged the damage charge applied for the tear to 
the soft top roof and so this decision only considers the issue regarding this charge.
The inspection report clearly shows the damage and Mr P hasnt disputed that the damage 
was present. MBFS investigated whether there was a manufacturing fault but there is no 
evidence of this. I note the comments Mr P has made about a fault with his car but I have 
nothing to evidence that the roof was faulty. The outstanding issue is whether the tear is due 
to reasonable wear and tear.
Mr P has noted the tear is on the crease where the roof folds to go into the boot. While I 
understand the point he has raised, I do not find that this means the damage is acceptable. 
The vehicle return conditions provided by MBFS do not specifically refer to soft top roofs but 
do say that tears, rips and cuts to headlining and other upholstery arent acceptable. The 
BVRLA guidelines say that tears and rips to soft tops arent acceptable. Having looked at the 
damage in light of the return conditions and guidelines I think this falls outside of acceptable 
wear and tear. Because of this I do not find that MBFS was wrong to charge for this damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman