DRN-1467653
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited ("BMWFS") has not been of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr M took receipt of a new car in October 2018. He funded the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS.
Mr M had problems with the car. Shortly afterwards at the end of November 2018 he took 
the car back to the dealership. He said there was a noise from the brakes and from the 
steering. The steering fault was eventually diagnosed and fixed in January 2019 but not until 
Mr M's third trip to the dealership. Mr M still says the brakes are noisy despite the dealership 
having completed some work on them.
He complained to BMWFS in December 2018 and asked them to allow him to reject the car 
and terminate his finance agreement. But when he wasn't able to satisfactorily resolve the 
complaint he referred it to this service and our investigator provided his view.
He explained that the relevant legislation allowed BMWFS one opportunity to repair a car 
that was faulty when supplied. He thought it was likely this car was faulty when supplied as 
Mr M had complained about the noises on the brakes and steering so soon after taking 
receipt of the vehicle. He didn't think BMWFS's repair in November 2018 could be said to be 
successful as the car was referred back to the dealership again in December 2018 and in 
January 2019 with the same problems. In those circumstances he thought it would be fair for 
BMWFS to allow Mr M to now reject the car and to terminate his finance agreement with 
them.
He said they should refund Mr M's deposit and 75% of the instalments he'd paid towards his 
agreement and that they should also pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience he'd experienced. 
BMWFS didn't agree. They said the brake problem that was still being reported was a 
characteristic of the car and they said the rattling issues had been minor and not reason to 
reject the car. The complaint has therefore been referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
I agree with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. This was a 
brand new car so I would not expect any faults with it.
Im persuaded that there were faults with this car when supplied. I say that because Mr M 
reported them after only a month had passed and because the dealership identified faults 
which they subsequently endeavoured to repair.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply. I think the business had that one opportunity in November 2018 when 
they tried to fix a noise from the suspension and one from the brake pedal. Im persuaded 
that repair failed because in December 2018 the same issues were referred to them and 
again in January 2019.
The relevant legislation does not give a business one chance to repair each separate fault 
that may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the 
vehicle as a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the 
more likely it is the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality. So, even if this wasnt the same fault 
that was being repaired, given the short passage of time and the newness of the vehicle, I 
think its most likely that the faults reported where present or developing at the point the car 
was supplied and that BMWFS have failed to repair them.
Putting things right
In those circumstances BMWFS should now allow Mr M to reject the car and terminate his 
finance agreement with them.
They should refund his deposit and, as hes been deprived of that money, they should add 
interest to the refund.
Mr M doesnt appear to have had trouble free use of the car. His usage will have been 
reduced as hes had to refer the vehicle back to the dealership on several occasions and his 
enjoyment of this brand new vehicle will have been marred by the constant problems he 
experienced with it. In the circumstances I would agree with the investigator that the 
business should refund 75% of the payments hes made towards his finance agreement. 
They should add interest to this refund.Mr M has clearly been inconvenienced by having to return the car to the dealership and by 
having to pursue a claim through this service when I think it could have been resolved 
earlier. In those circumstances I would agree that the business should compensate him for 
the distress and inconvenience hes experienced and I think £150 is fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
terminate the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund 75% of the finance instalments Mr M has made in respect of loss of use and 
enjoyment. Add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman