DRN-4172428
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice she received from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited in 1998 to open a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension 
plan. She says she should have been advised to contribute to the most suitable in-house 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) scheme instead.
What happened
In 1998 Mrs M met with a representative from Scottish Amicable (now Prudential).
At that time, Prudential completed a personal financial review which recorded information 
about her circumstances. Amongst other things it noted;
Mrs M had been employed as a teacher for seven and a half years and was a 
member of their pension scheme.
She was married with an expected retirement age of 60.
She had a balanced attitude to investment risk. And a disposable income of around 
£200 a month.
Following the review Prudential recommended Mrs M open a FSAVC with them and 
contribute £100 a month towards her plan.
Mrs M complained to Prudential in 2022. In summary she said the FSAVC wasnt suitable for 
her. She said if shed been advised correctly, shed have contributed to the most suitable in- 
house AVC scheme instead.
In response Prudential said Ms M would have been provided with literature when she joined 
her occupational pension scheme about different ways to contribute. They said their adviser 
wasnt able to give advice about the employers in-house options but the documentation from 
the time shows that in-house options were discussed.
Prudential went on to say Mrs Ms funds were invested in line with her attitude to investment 
risk which was categorised as balanced at the time.
Mrs M remained unhappy with Prudentials response and so brought her complaint to our 
service.
I sent Mrs M and Prudential a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I explained that I 
didnt think Prudential had followed the regulators guidance at the time. I thought that if they 
had, Mrs M was likely to have purchase the in-house AVC instead of an FSAVC. Ive copied 
the relevant extracts from my provisional decision below.
My provisional decision
In reaching my findings Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. Of particular note Ive considered the Regulatory Update 20 
(RU20) sent by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) in May 1996.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The advice was given by a representative of Prudential, so they were a tied adviser. And in 
RU20 the PIA said that before selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among 
other things, of the features described in this article)
 Direct the consumer to their employer or the occupational pension scheme for more 
information on the in-house option
RU20 also referred to the lower charges under an in-house AVC in general terms. It said:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client.
I wasnt present at the meetings between Mrs M and the adviser in 1998 so I dont know 
exactly what was said. The recommendation letter from Prudential didnt contain much detail 
either. However, the relevant part says;
2. In-house and Added Years AVC Schemes
a. We discussed the advantages and disadvantages of making Additional Voluntary 
Contributions to your company scheme or taking a separate Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution. You are aware that there may be the possibility of buying 
past years or having added year options within the company scheme, however you 
are particularly attracted to the flexibility of a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution. This flexibility includes portability and wider investment choice, together 
with the option of taking the benefits from this Free Standing AVC early, if you left 
your current employment, whereas you could not with an AVC. The charges within 
this plan may be greater than under your company scheme. You can obtain more 
information on your company scheme from your Employers or Scheme Trustees.
Although Prudential didnt have to investigate whether the in-house options were better than 
the FSAVC as they were a tied adviser, they needed to discuss the generic benefits of them, 
pointing out the key areas as Ive mentioned above.
The PIA had made it clear in RU20 that the difference in charges between AVCs and 
FSAVCs were likely to exert the greatest impact on which route was better for the client. So 
in my view, discussions about the differences in the two routes needed sufficient focus on 
the fact that charges were likely to be lower in an in-house AVC. And the effect of the 
charges in both routes needed to be discussed.
While Prudential recorded that the advantages and disadvantages of making AVCs and 
FSAVCs were discussed. I dont think that demonstrates that the effects of charges in both 
routes were sufficiently explained.The wording Prudential used should have clearly demonstrated that the in-house option was 
likely to be more cost effective. But instead Prudential said (with my emphasis) The 
charges within this plan may be greater than under your company scheme.
I think Prudentials use of the word may instead of likely was likely to unfairly influence 
Mrs M into taking out the FSAVC rather than investigating the in-house AVC herself. And the 
PIA had warned that Care should be taken not to make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of the 
in-scheme AVC.
In using the wording as they did, I dont think Prudential acted fairly or in line with the 
regulators expectations at the time. So, Im minded to uphold this complaint for that reason.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs M would have gone ahead with opening the 
FSAVC anyway.
As the regulator noted, the in-house AVC was likely to have lower charges. And I think that 
was likely to have the greatest impact on whether Mrs M chose the in-house option. But 
Prudential noted that the advice to open an FSAVC was also given on the basis that Mrs M 
wanted flexibility in portability and investment choice as well as being able to take the 
benefits early.
However, Mrs M was in a profession where she was likely to remain for her career. So, I 
dont think portability was truly important for Mrs M at the time. Likewise, Ive seen no 
evidence Mrs M was an experienced investor or had any particular interest in where her 
funds were invested. Once opened the FSAVC was invested in mainstream funds, and I 
think its likely similar funds would have been available in the in-house AVC. So, the FSAVC 
offered a flexibility of investments I dont think Mrs M truly needed.
Finally, Prudential said the FSAVC offered the option to take benefits early. But I think that 
statement was misleading. At that time any benefits from the FSAVC had to be taken at the 
same time as benefits were being drawn from the main occupational scheme.
If Prudential had given Mrs M suitable advice, I think its likely she would have investigated 
and opted for an in-house option instead.
I cant say exactly what Mrs M would have done so I base my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened based on what I do know about in-house schemes at the time.
I understand its likely the in-house options would have included both in-house AVCs and 
added years. At the time of the sale projected investment returns for an in-house AVC would 
have been 6% for lower, 9% for middle and 12% for upper returns. I think the illustrated 
returns would have been attractive to Mrs M.
In contrast at the time of the advice I think added years would have looked expensive 
compared to the projected returns and benefits of the AVC. I think its unlikely Mrs M would 
have wanted to spend a potentially greater monthly amount to get the same projected 
benefits from added years as she could have had from the in-house AVC.
Therefore, I conclude that had Prudential acted in line with the regulators expectations 
Mrs M would have opted to contribute to an in-house AVC over the FSAVC that she was 
sold. So, Prudential must put Mrs M as close as possible into the position she would have 
been in, had she made the same level of contributions to the in-house AVC instead of the 
FSAVC.
The responses to my provisional decisionMrs M agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Prudential disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary they said:
They didnt think the use of the words may be would have been enough to influence 
Mrs M into choosing the FSAVC over the in-house AVC. They say the wording used 
still implies theres a chance it would be cheaper, and Mrs M was advised to speak 
to her scheme for more details. 
Theres a previous ombudsmans decision that agreed the information recorded in 
the financial review was enough to satisfy the requirements at the time. Although in 
that case they had used the word likely rather than may be.
Regarding the flexibility and portability of the FSAVC they say that if Mrs M felt they 
didnt apply, she could have raised that at the time. Its unknown what fund options 
were available in-house. And if she felt she would remain in the teaching profession 
for her career, she would have mentioned it at the time. They say its not uncommon 
for teachers to change their jobs and careers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive also re-considered my provisional decision in light of the arguments put forward. 
Having done so, my decision remains the same. 
I explained in my provisional decision that the regulatory guidance at the time of the sale of 
Mrs Ms policy made it clear that the generic differences between FSAVCs and the in-house 
options should be discussed fairly. The guidance demonstrated that advisers knew the 
charges for in-house AVCs were likely to be cheaper. And those charges were likely to have 
had the greatest impact on whether a client chose to investigate the in-house options over 
an FSAVC. So, the discussion needed to be fair and balanced.  
I wasnt present at the meetings between Mrs M and Prudential so I cant say what was said. 
However, there is written evidence from the time which I would expect to be a clear 
representation of the discussions that were had. And for the reasons Ive already explained 
in my provisional decision, I think the written evidence suggests Mrs M was unfairly 
influenced not to investigate the in-house options further. 
According to Prudentials recommendation, the in house-option may have been cheaper. 
But in order to meet the expectations of the regulator, Prudentials adviser needed to be 
clear that it was likely the in-house options would be cheaper. So, I dont think Mrs M was 
treated fairly in the absence of such a clear and unambiguous explanation. 
Prudential gave details of a similar complaint which wasnt upheld. While its the case that 
each complaint is assessed on its individual circumstances and merits, I dont think 
Prudentials submission adds any weight to their argument. As in the case theyve quoted, 
Prudential said the charges in their FSAVC were likely to be higher than the company 
scheme. So, the ombudsman felt in that case Prudential met their obligations. 
Prudential say Mrs M had various fund options in the FSAVC and they are unaware of what 
fund options were available in the in-house AVC. And that portability was also one of her 
objectives. As I said in my provisional decision, I think the effect of charges on her funds is likely to have 
had the biggest impact on whether or not Mrs M chose an in-house AVC or FSAVC. Ive 
seen no evidence from the time that Mrs M intended on leaving the teaching profession. And 
she doesnt appear to have had a particular interest in the fund choices she had. Had Mrs M 
not been unfairly dissuaded from seeking further information on the in-house options through 
the wording used by Prudential. I think its likely she would have found a suitable fund in the 
in-house AVC to invest in.
So, to put things right Prudential must put Mrs M as close as possible into the position she 
would have been in, had she made the same level of contributions to the in-house AVC 
instead of the FSAVC.
  
Putting things right
Prudential should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Prudential should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to compensate Mrs M as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman