DRN-3637188
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2017, Mr C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr C decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Cs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
The CMC also pointed out that P had emailed its quote to the wrong email address.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr C or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mr C had been told that the system would begin to pay for itself after two years, but 
this had transpired to be untrue;
the system is performing poorly and there is a significant shortfall from the financial 
returns Mr C had been told he could expect.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Cs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr C, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr C has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Cs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.I can see that the quote was not emailed to Mr C after the meeting, which is an error by P. 
But this does not affect my finding that the quote was referred to at the meeting. So it is still 
likely that what the salesman said at the meeting was consistent with the quote.
FIT payments and savings
Mr C has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Cs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £161.44, which results in an average monthly income of about £14. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £102.44. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr C was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £287.17 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr C, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,192.61. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
That is clearly less than £100 a month, so it was clear that the system would not make 
enough to cover the loan payments in the first year. However, the second FIT table shows 
that the annual FIT income would increase yearly, reaching an average of £236.08, and the 
electricity savings would increase too, as energy prices were expected to increase over time.
This is shown vividly in another section headed Repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £102.44. (This is incorrect; the 
loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £101.70, but the difference  74p  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
positive figure for every year of the loan except the first, meaning that the system would 
make enough money to cover the loan payments from year two.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would be sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments from the second year.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C that the system would be self-funding from the outset, 
in terms of paying for its overall cost. And I do accept that Mr C was told by P that the 
system would be self-funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take seven years for the 
overall benefits that Mr C could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the seven-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section, next to two other figures which expressly exclude the cost 
of the finance. So I think it would have been clear that the seven-year payback time refers to 
the cash price, not the cost of the finance, which would take longer to pay back.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This too shows that during year seven the overall benefits that Mr C could expect 
to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,687. (I have only reproduced the 
rows for years 1, 6 and 7 here.)
So Im satisfied that P told Mr C that the system would pay for its cash price in seven years. 
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to 
enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take much longer than that for the system 
to pay for itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this 
is in line with the contract between P and Mr C.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,459 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Cs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,271 kWh a year. This is very significantly more than estimated by P at the point 
of sale (133%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr C has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr C hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman