DRN-1764966
The complaint
Ms J complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) acted unfairly and unreasonably 
in failing to pay her claim under a travel insurance policy. She wants the medical costs paid 
and an apology.
What happened
Ms J had a travel insurance policy with ERV taken out in January 2019; she had declared 
three pre-existing medical conditions covered by the policy, including hypertension (high 
blood pressure). Ms J went on a cruise and needed medical attention due to an inflammation 
of her right foot (which had open wounds according to the treating doctor). Ms J made a 
claim under the policy for the medical costs to be repaid by ERV. It declined to pay it 
because it said the treatment was due to an undeclared pre-existing medical condition.
Ms J complained and said the swelling she suffered from was caused by the flight and 
medication she took, which led to cellulitis affecting her foot. Ms J said a previous infection in 
the same place arose after she bought the policy, which was why it hadnt been declared. 
ERV said that Ms J had a history of infection to her right foot and had been to see her GP 
and his staff about it more than once shortly before her trip. It thought that the medical 
treatment she received on holiday related to this condition, which was undeclared, and 
declined the claim. It pointed out that the policy told Ms J to declare any changes to her 
health during the term of the policy and before going on holiday, and made it clear that a pre-
existing medical condition was Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to 
symptoms, or for which any form of treatment, or prescribed medication, medical 
consultation, investigation, or follow-up/ check-up, has been required, or received, during the 
2 years prior to the commencement of cover under this policy and/or prior to any trip. As 
medical condition was defined as Any medical or psychological disease, sickness, 
conditions (whether diagnosed, undiagnosed or a set of symptoms), illness or injury, that has 
affected you, ERV said it covered Ms Js foot issues in February 2019.
ERV also commented that Ms J had been told to read the policys terms and conditions and 
to contact its broker if any changes to health occurred. It also said that Ms J had chosen to 
travel when it appeared her foot condition hadnt fully resolved, and if the condition had been 
declared, it wouldve refused to offer her a policy at all as she had an ongoing undiagnosed 
pre-existing medical condition. It offered to refund the premium as the policy was now void, 
but Ms J didnt accept the offer.
Ms J complained to us. ERV said that it viewed Ms Js failure to declare her foot issues from 
February 2019 as deliberate misrepresentation. The investigators view was that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that the terms and conditions of the policy said Ms J 
had to declare any changes to her health after purchasing the policy, which in her view 
including the issues with her foot in February 2019. The investigator pointed out that the 
even Ms Js GP said the toe had been re-infected, which showed that there was a link 
between the issues faced by Ms J in February and the treatment she received on-board in 
March 2019. The investigator said ERV had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim and showed that if the condition had been declared, it wouldve declined cover. She 
said the refund of the premium was the fair and reasonable outcome.
Ms J disagreed. She said she didnt see the foot issues from February 2019 as a pre-
existing medical condition, nor did her GP, and there was no reason to disclose a minor 
infection. Ms J said it was her heels that were treated on  the ship, and there was no 
connection to the infection from February.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that ERV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, which Ms J accepted when she 
took out the policy. They were sent to her promptly and were available for her to read, and 
cancel the policy within the cooling off period if it didnt meet her needs. While Ms J says she 
didnt think it was necessary to declare the foot issues from February 2019, the policy says 
that Failure to declare ALL pre-existing medical conditions that are relevant to the insurance 
may invalidate the policy and defines a medical condition as Any medical or psychological 
disease, sickness, conditions (whether diagnosed, undiagnosed or a set of symptoms), 
illness or injury, that has affected you. A pre-existing medical condition is defined as Any 
past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms, or for which any
form of treatment, or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation, or follow
up/check-up, has been required, or received, during the 2 years prior to the commencement 
of cover under this policy and/or prior to any trip.
The policy went on to say that changes to your health after purchasing your policy had to 
be declared to ERV before travel, and that this included a new medical condition, a change 
to prescribed medicines or being on a waiting list for investigations of treatment. The 
infection that Ms J suffered in February 2019 wasnt declared despite this term, but it 
shouldve been due to the terms and conditions of the policy. She had been affected by the 
infection in her right foot. It doesnt matter whether the infection was minor, or even if a GP 
wouldve advised disclosure as it isnt the role of a doctor to give advice about insurance 
policies. The policy required disclosure.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
In Ms Js case, Im satisfied that she was told within the policys terms and conditions more 
than once she had to declare any changes to her health, and she didnt do so. This was a 
misrepresentation as ERV then didnt know key information about her health and the risk of 
a claim, and I think it was reckless, if not deliberate  I dont think Ms J even thought about 
declaring any changes to her health, rather than decided to keep it secret. ERV has shown if 
Ms J had declared the issue with her foot from February 2019 (which was undiagnosed, as 
shown by the later scan in April 2019), it wouldnt have continued cover.
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing ERV to rely on it to avoid Ms Js policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint. The fair and reasonable redress is the refund of the premium as offered.
But theres a second issue within this complaint, which Ill briefly deal with as the answer 
above is sufficient to fairly resolve the complaint. Theres an argument about whether the 
treatment received by Ms J on-board was for a pre-existing medical condition. While she 
was covered for hypertension, the primary diagnosis of the treating doctor was that Ms J 
suffered from acute ulcerative cellulites on her right foot, which had open wounds. These are 
likely to be the wounds seen by the GP and his staff in February 2019, but were then 
described as dry. The GP referred to Ms J suffering from a re-infection while on holiday.
Having considered all the evidence, including the medical evidence and advice given to 
ERV, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for it to conclude that there was a link 
(whether direct or indirect) between the undeclared pre-existing medical condition suffered 
by Ms J in February 2019 and the treatment she received on holiday. The treating doctor 
described the condition of the foot and Ms Js account of the previous infection (including 
references to open wounds and toes, not heels) given while being treated, and even the GP 
referred to a reinfection.
The policy says:
 Your policy does not provide cover for claims arising directly or indirectly from pre-existing 
medical condition affecting you unless you have declared all pre-existing medical conditions 
to us, and you have declared any changes to your health or prescribed medication, and we 
have accepted the medical conditions for insurance in writing. 
In light of the terms and conditions of the policy, and the evidence, Im satisfied that the 
finding that there was an undeclared pre-existing medical condition excluded by the policy is 
fair and reasonable, as well as consistent with the legal agreement between the parties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I leave it up to Ms J whether to 
accept ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs offer to refund the insurance premium paid. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or reject 
my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Claire SharpOmbudsman