DRN-3354037
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding her
requests for two three-month payment holidays on her loan account.
What happened
Miss K requested a three-month payment holiday on her loan account from HSBC because
she was struggling to meet the repayment commitments on the loan because of the financial
impact of Covid-19. HSBC agreed to Miss Ks request and she was granted a three-month
payment holiday on the account.
As the end of the three-month payment holiday approached, Miss K contacted HSBC and
requested a further three-month payment holiday for the same reason. A HSBC agent
helped Miss K complete the steps necessary to apply for this further payment holiday and
advised Miss K that a decision would be shortly forthcoming.
Miss K became increasing worried as the loan repayment date was approaching and she
hadnt heard from HSBC as to whether a second payment holiday would be agreed on her
account or not. Miss K contacted HSBC on several occasions but was told that a decision
would be made shortly and that she should wait to hear from HSBC accordingly.
Shortly afterwards, Miss K discovered that HSBC had reported to the credit reference
agencies that payments had been missed on her loan during the time that the first three 
month payment holiday had been agreed. Miss K wasnt happy about this, or about the fact
that shed recently contacted HSBC chasing a decision on her second payment holiday
request shed been told that the correct forms hadnt been completed and so had to
complete them again  even though shed completed the forms with a HSBC agent
previously. So, Miss K raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Miss Ks complaint. They agreed that there had been a mistake with the
credit file reporting and they apologised to Miss K because of this and promised to correct it.
HSBC also confirmed to Miss K that her application for a second three-month payment
holiday had been approved and that the second payment holiday would be scheduled to
commence immediately after the end of the first payment holiday. Finally, HSBC made
payments totalling £100 to Mrs K to compensate her for any distress and inconvenience this
matter may have caused.
Miss K didnt feel that HSBCs response to her complaint went far enough, and so she
referred her complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But
they felt that while HSBC had made some errors in how theyd managed the situation, the
response that HSBC had already issued to Miss Ks complaint, including the corrective
action and the payment of £100 compensation, already represented a fair and reasonable
resolution to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Miss K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 February 2022 as follows:
HSBC dont dispute that they could have provided better service in regard to how 
they initially misreported the first three-month payment holiday to the credit reference 
agencies and in how they communicated with Miss K about her request for a second 
payment holiday on her account.
In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that HSBC 
would undertake the corrective action necessary to return Miss K to the position that 
she should have been in, had the errors not occurred.
I think that HSBC have done that here, and I say this because theyve already 
corrected the credit file reporting so that Miss Ks credit file accurately shows both of 
the three-month payment holidays that she was approved for, and so that it doesnt 
incorrectly show any missed payments for either of these periods.
However, it would also be expected by this service that HSBC make a fair and 
reasonable payment of compensation to Miss K in light of the trouble and upset that 
she may have incurred.
In this instance, while I commend HSBC for apologising to Miss K and for making the
compensation payments that they did  which totalled £100  Im not convinced that 
these payments take sufficient account of the trouble and distress that Miss K has 
experienced here.
I say this both because of the number of times that Miss K had to contact HSBC 
about these matters and also because Miss K has explained to this service that the 
events in question did cause her considerable distress.
Additionally, Miss Ks personal situation at the time of these events  being the 
mother of a dependent child and whose only source of income was government 
benefits (as evidenced by the income and expenditure information that HSBC 
collated from Miss K themselves)  leads me to accept Miss Ks stated position that 
the uncertainty she felt about the incorrect reporting on her credit file, and whether 
her application for a second payment holiday would be successful or not, would have 
had an impact on Miss K to an extent where I feel that the payment of £100 
compensation to Miss K doesnt fairly compensate her for that impact.
As such, I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Miss Ks favour and 
instructing HSBC to make a further compensation payment of £125 to Miss K, taking 
the total amount payable to £225.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss K and HSBC the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.
Miss K did provide further information about the amount of inconvenience and distress shed 
experienced as a result of the matter in question. This included that Miss K had to open an account with a credit reference agency and liaise with that agency to monitor the ongoing 
status of the credit file reporting until HSBC corrected it. Miss K also confirmed that at the 
time of these events, as well as being the mother of a dependent child, she was also 
pregnant, which further contributed to the amount of trouble and upset she experienced.
Id like to thank Miss K for providing this further information to this service, but I feel that the 
further amount of £125 compensation referenced in my provisional decision, taking the total 
amount of compensation payable to £225, continues to represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what has taken place, even taking Miss Ks further comments into account.
It follows therefore that my final decision here will be that I am upholding this complaint in 
Miss Ks favour on the basis laid out previously in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
HSBC must make a further payment of £125 to Miss K, taking the total amount of 
compensation payable to £225.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman