DRN-1338376
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) were unfair in refusing to settle his claim 
for damage to his property after a water leak at his home.
What happened
Mr S had a leak in an upstairs room of his home address. The leak caused water to soak 
through the floor damaging the lounge ceiling and items in the lounge. So Mr S made a claim 
against his home contents insurance with UKI.
UKI investigated his claim and decided that theyd been given information that Mr S knew 
was untrue or misleading. UKI explained that they believed that was done with the intention 
of making a financial gain. So UKI refused to settle the contents claim and they cancelled Mr 
Ss insurance policy.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and thought that the 
decision that UKI reached was fair given the evidence they had. Mr S was unhappy with this 
response and asked for this complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how serious this matter is for Mr S. He has damage to property in his home 
that his insurance isnt paying for. And his policy has been cancelled in a way which will 
have implications for him in obtaining future insurance. So I understand that Mr S will be 
disappointed that Im not upholding his complaint. I will explain my reasons as follows.
UKI state that they think Mr Ss claim was exaggerated in order to obtain a benefit that his 
insurance policy didnt entitle him to. This is a serious allegation to make. In deciding an 
outcome for this complaint my role isnt to say whether Mr Ss claim was fraudulent or 
exaggerated. My role is to decide whether the business acted fairly and reasonably in the 
decisions they reached. Its important that a business has enough weight of evidence to 
make their decision fair and reasonable.
Mr Ss claim was originally made over the phone by his wife. Mr Ss wife acted as his 
representative in bringing this complaint to us and in making the insurance claim. Ive 
listened to that call. In it, the details of the claim are taken. Mr Ss wife explained about the 
escape of water that caused damage to a settee and the carpet in the lounge. UKIs call 
handler specifically asked whether only one settee was damaged and Mr Ss wife said, yes 
just one but obviously we bought them as a set". She also said, "my concern is that we have 
two suites the same so how would that work?".
UKI sent a loss adjuster to Mr Ss address to assess the damage. Their report listed one 
settee and the carpet as being damaged. The report quoted the cost for replacement and 
repair of the items. The report explained the policy holders large 4 seater sofa has been 
damaged by an escape of water and, the policy holder is happy for the large cushion to be 
re upholstered and new filling inserted but has pointed out that she has another 4 seater 
matching sofa that has not been damaged in the same room, she does not want a colour 
difference in the fabric so if she has matching item cover would like the other large cushion 
re upholstered and refilled also.
At this point UKI were progressing Mr Ss claim on the basis that one settee had been 
damaged along with his carpet. I think the information UKI were given was clear and dont 
think there was any confusion in what UKI were told. The issue of the settee being part of a 
suite had clearly been raised in the first call. It is obvious from that call and the loss adjusters 
report that Mr S and his wife were concerned about the matching items from the beginning of 
the claim. So I think that there was the opportunity to have mentioned at the beginning if 
there was damage to other items in the suite.
Mr Ss policy had a condition that said, if part of a set, suite, group or collection of items is 
lost or damaged, we will not pay the cost to replace or alter any of the undamaged items 
solely because they are part of the same set, suite, group or collection. I can understand the 
frustration this may have caused because the settees were matching. But this policy didnt 
provide cover to replace a whole suite where only one settee was damaged.
To settle the claim, UKI offered to pay for the cost of re-upholstering the damaged settee 
and 50% towards the cost to re-upholster matching items in the suite. Mr S was told that his 
policy didnt cover the undamaged items and the offer was made as a gesture of goodwill.
In a later phone call - after UKI had made their settlement offer  UKI were told that a 
second settee and a footstool were also damaged by the same escape of water. UKI were 
told that because they were in the same room, and close to the settee that was seriously 
damaged, they were also splashed. UKI were told that the loss adjuster that attended should 
have noted those items too.
UKI sent their agent back to examine the other settee and footstool. The opinion of the agent 
was that the marks on the second sofa and footstool were not caused by the escape of 
water. The agent also said that the marks were not pointed out on the first visit to assess the 
claim. Whilst this agent was appointed by UKI, I still think its reasonable for UKI to take his 
evidence regarding the damage into account.
Mr S and his wife have since explained that at the time the claim was made they had a 
stressful domestic situation. Which was why mistakes were made when reporting the 
damage initially. The issues they were dealing with must have been difficult. But having 
listened to the phone calls I cant say that it really explains the discrepancies in this claim 
that UKI have relied on.
I think that the evidence shows that the claim made was originally only for one damaged 
settee. I dont think that UKI made any mistakes in how they initially treated the claim and 
Mr S and his wife were given every opportunity to explain the extent of the damage from the 
start.
The claim that the second settee and footstool were also damaged was first mentioned four 
months after the claim was originally made. There were discrepancies in the account 
provided. Mr Ss wife initially insisted that shed never stated that only one settee was 
damaged in the first call, and then changed her account after that call recording was 
provided.
UKI decided that Mr Ss claim had been exaggerated in order to receive a settlement he 
wasnt entitled to. I think, given all the evidence Ive seen, that was a reasonable decision to 
have made.Having made that decision, UKI refused to pay the claim, but also cancelled Mr Ss policy. 
The terms of Mr Ss policy explained what UKI could do if a claim was in any way fraudulent 
or exaggerated. The terms allowed UKI to cancel the policy, reject the claim and keep the 
premiums paid. I think that this condition of Mr Ss policy was clear and in line with what an 
insurer is allowed to do under the Insurance Act 2015.
I think this condition has been correctly and fairly applied in this case. Even though there is 
no suggestion that the whole claim is false, the fact that UKI decided that part of it was 
exaggerated means that they can reject the entire claim. So, I think that UKIs decision to 
cancel Mr Ss policy and decline his claim was fair given all the circumstances.
When UKI informed Mr S they were rejecting his claim, they also explained they could share 
details of the claim with fraud prevention agencies. This could potentially affect Mr S in 
obtaining insurance in the future. Because I think that the decision UKI reached regarding 
this claim was fair, it follows that I also think UKI were entitled to record the details of this 
claim in line with industry practice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman