DRN-2202979
The complaint
Mrs R complains that the interest-only mortgage recommended by Ashwood Law LLP was 
unsuitable for a number of reasons. 
What happened
Ashwood recommended a 12-year interest only mortgage to Mrs R and her ex-partner in 
2007. The term expired in 2019 with an unpaid balance of about £150,000. Mrs R says the 
mortgage wasnt suitable because:
The value of her property was about £145,000, but Ashwood inflated this in the mortgage 
application forms to about £192,000. As a result, the lender lent more than it should 
have, leaving her in negative equity. 
No-one checked she had a repayment strategy. Mrs R says Ashwood said she could 
switch to a repayment mortgage or take out another interest only mortgage. Mrs R says 
Ashwood knew this wasnt possible due to her age. She says if shed known this, she 
wouldnt have taken out the mortgage. 
She wasnt told about the consequences of self-certifying income for a mortgage.
No-one checked the information provided was correct. Mrs R says her ex-partner 
exercised financial control over her. She signed completed forms provided by Ashwood. 
Mrs R says she asked the lender for a new interest-only mortgage when the term expired 
and this is when she realised she had a problem. The lender said it no longer offers 
mortgages and it wont extend the term. Mrs R is unable to get a mortgage elsewhere due to 
her age and income, and says there isnt equity in the property to fund the purchase of a 
new home.
Our investigator said the lender made its lending decision based on a valuation from an 
independent surveyor. So if the valuation in the application documents wasnt correct this 
didnt change the outcome. Ashwoods notes said that Mrs R and her ex-partner were in 
financial difficulties and wanted to re-mortgage to clear debts and raise money for medical 
expenses and home improvements. They intended to start repaying capital after about two 
years, when their circumstances improved. The investigator didnt recommend upholding the 
complaint.
Mrs R didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ashwood recommended the mortgage to Mrs R and her ex-partner. So it had to check the 
mortgage it recommended was suitable and affordable. It also needed to give Mrs R enough 
clear information about the mortgage to decide whether or not she wanted to take it out.
Ashwood provided documents from 2007, when it recommended the mortgage, including the 
fact find (or questionnaire), its recommendation letter, the results of its search for mortgages 
meeting Mr and Mrs Rs criteria, the mortgage application and the lenders key facts 
illustration. I also have information from the lender, including the mortgage offer and the 
valuation report.
Property valuation
Mrs R says the main part of her complaint is that her property was overvalued, meaning the 
lender lent more than it should have done, leaving her in negative equity. Mrs R had moved 
to the property in 1990. 
The fact find and the mortgage application form completed by Ashwood said the expected 
sale price of the property was £192,500. Ashwood is a mortgage broker. It doesnt have the 
expertise to value property and would usually rely on what its told by an applicant when 
completing an application form. I wouldnt expect it to obtain an expert valuation itself before 
completing the mortgage application. This would cause delays and additional costs for the 
applicants. And most lenders require their own independent valuation  as was the case 
here.
The lender didnt rely on the sales price stated in the mortgage application when deciding 
how much to lend. The lender appointed a chartered valuation surveyor to value the 
property. The surveyor said the applicants estimated valuation was high and not supported 
by evidence. He gave a value of £185,000, which is the valuation amount set out in the 
lenders mortgage offer. So I think this was the value used by the lender when deciding how 
much to lend.
Its unfortunate if the valuation by the surveyor wasnt right, or if the value of Mrs Rs 
property later fell, but Ashwood couldnt have known this in 2007. 
Affordability
Ashwood was responsible for checking that the mortgage was affordable. As this was an 
interest only mortgage this had two parts. First that Mrs R and her ex-partner could afford 
the monthly payments. And second that they could repay the capital before the term expired.
Monthly payments: Mrs R and her ex-partner were self-employed, and it was acceptable in 
2007 for them to self-certify their income. Ashwood was entitled to assume the information 
they provided about their incomes was correct, and Mrs R signed a declaration saying her 
income was as stated in the application form. Based on the information provided by Mrs R 
and her ex-partner, the monthly mortgage payments appeared affordable.
Repayment of the capital: I think Ashwood told Mrs R and her ex-partner that theyd need to 
repay the capital, and Mrs R doesnt dispute this. She says she was misled about being able 
to extend or re-mortgage. I havent seen any evidence of this.There was a discussion about the term of the recommended mortgage going past Mrs Rs 
normal retirement age. It seems unlikely Ashwood would then give assurances about her 
being able to take extend or out a new mortgage at that point. 
There is evidence of discussions about how the capital would be repaid. The fact find said 
Mrs R and her ex-partner intended to make capital repayments once their financial 
circumstances got better  in a couple of years. The suitability letter said Mrs R and her ex-
partner wanted interest only payments for a couple of years until their finances improved. 
The mortgage application says they would repay capital from the sale of the property. This 
was an acceptable repayment strategy at that time.
Based on the available evidence, I cant fairly find that Mrs R was misled into taking out the 
mortgage by assurances about being able to re-mortgage when the term expired.
Suitability
The fact find says Mrs R and her ex-partner wanted to borrow £140,000. They had an 
existing mortgage of about £79,000 and a secured loan of about £37,000 (which was in 
arrears). They had car finance of £2,300 and two county court judgement debts totalling 
about £6,000. Theyd already tried to reach agreement with current lenders. They wanted to 
avoid re-possession, but thought it would be difficult to sell the property due to flood risk. 
Both Mrs R and her ex-partner had entered into an individual voluntary arrangement. The 
suitability letter says Mrs R and her ex-partner remained under pressure from creditors. 
Their income had reduced due to Mrs Rs health, they expected this to return to previous 
levels after Mrs R had an operation. Theyd had difficulty re-mortgaging due to flood risk. 
Mrs R and her ex-partner wanted to improve their position. They wanted to consolidate 
existing debts and raise capital for medical expenses and home improvements. The 
suitability letter sets out the costs and risks of interest-only payments, consolidating debt, 
self-certifying income and the term expiring five months after Mrs Rs normal retirement age.
Mrs R and her ex-partner were experiencing financial difficulties and it appears their options 
were limited. The evidence suggests they couldnt maintain their existing level of debt 
repayments. They were worried about a secured lender taking action for possession, at a 
time when they thought it would be hard to sell the property. The mortgage recommended by 
Ashwood met their main objective  to take pressure off their finances by reducing their 
monthly debt payments to an affordable amount. In the circumstances, I dont think the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
Control over financial decisions
Mrs R says she was the victim of domestic abuse, including financial control. The 
circumstances described by Mrs R are upsetting and complex, and she says theres an 
ongoing legal process. Im not looking into that  or making any findings.
I dont think, based on the available evidence, Ashwood knew  or should have been alerted 
to  the circumstances Mrs R has described. I dont think it had any reason to suspect Mrs R 
wasnt acting of her own accord. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman