DRN-2661460
The complaint
 Ms M is unhappy because Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) declined her 
request for a £50 overdraft.
What happened
Ms M asked Halifax for a £50 overdraft in August 2020, and Halifax declined her request.
Ms M wasnt happy and complained to Halifax. Halifax didnt uphold her complaint and said 
in its final response that information on Ms Ms credit file appeared to have contributed to the 
decision.  
Ms M then brought her case to this service.
Our investigator reviewed her case but wasnt able to consider information on Ms Ms credit 
file as this was not available to him. But he could see that Ms M had missed payments to a 
debt charity in February and March 2020 and thought this might have impacted Ms Ms 
credit file.
He referred to information on the debt charitys website that explained that if some-one is on 
a debt management plan, its likely that their credit file would be impacted, and that missed 
payments before the plan started could also have an adverse impact.
While he couldnt see whether Ms Ms file contained any adverse information, based on what 
he could see from other sources of information, he didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly. He 
noted that Halifax would use its own lending criteria to decide whether to offer credit, and 
that it was entitled to exercise its own commercial judgment in doing so.
He didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Following a conversation after this with Ms M, our investigator looked into the circumstances 
of the missed payments hed referred to in his view. Halifax said that Ms M had cancelled the 
payments in those two months, and Ms M confirmed this, and said that the debt charity had 
understood her position.
This didnt change the investigators view.
Ms M wasnt happy with this, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax declined Ms Ms application for a £50 overdraft in August 2020 and said that its 
decision was contributed to by information on her credit file. Halifax is entitled to apply its 
own lending policy so long as it does so fairly, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that this wasnt the case here.
 
I have thought about what may have caused the issue with Ms Ms credit file, though I wasnt 
able to confirm this. Ms M didnt wish to check her report because she said she didnt have 
any other accounts and felt strongly that she wasnt a bad debtor. Our investigator tried to 
obtain a report from a credit reference agency, but due to the impact of Covid, it wasnt able 
to assist. 
    
Ms M told our investigator that shed been making payments to a debt charity for several 
years and I can see payments to it reflected in her account statements. I can also see that 
she missed two successive payments in early 2020. This would have meant that payments 
to Ms Ms creditors under her debt management plan would also have been missed. Ms M 
says that the debt charity understood that she couldnt make payment in those two months.  
But this wouldnt necessarily have affected what Ms Ms debt management plan creditors 
recorded. So, I think its possible that missing these payments may have impacted Ms Ms 
credit file  but without seeing it, I cant confirm this.
 
The debt charitys website contains information that indicates that as Ms M was on a debt 
management plan, it was likely that there would be adverse information on her credit file. 
 
Being on a debt management plan (DMP) will almost always affect your credit file and 
score. This is because you could be paying less than the minimum repayment amount you 
agreed to when you initially took the debts out.
If you do need to take out a new credit agreement the lender will run a credit check. And 
because making reduced payments impacts your credit file, you may be charged a higher 
interest rate or refused credit altogether.
While this information isnt specific to Ms M, it does show how her financial arrangements 
may have had an adverse impact on her credit file.
As Ive said, Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and in this case, as far as I can 
see, it applied those criteria to Ms M, so I dont think it treated her differently.
Taking account of all of this, I cant say that Halifax has acted unfairly, and I wont be asking 
it to do anything.
I know Ms M will find this disappointing, but I hope she can understand my reasons
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman