DRN-2969055
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a term assurance plan as she 
agreed to take it out on the understanding that she would receive a guaranteed pay-out of 
£200,000 at the end of its 15-year term. She believes the adviser took advantage of her 
understanding of English at the time. 
In bringing her complaint, Miss C is represented by her son, Mr A. 
What happened
In 2010, Miss C started a level term assurance policy on the recommendation of Barclays. It 
provided cover of £200,000 over a 15-year term for a monthly premium of £33.12.
In August 2020, Miss C complained that Barclays had mis-sold the policy to her, as she said 
shed been told she would receive a cash sum of £200,000 at the end of its term, but she 
had found that this wasnt the case and the policy would only pay out this amount if she died, 
or had a terminal illness.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
found that Barclays held limited information from the time Miss C started the policy. But she 
said the policy information said that the life assurance amount would be payable on the 
death of the life insured provided this happened before the plan end date and no claim for 
terminal illness benefit had been paid. She said that, although Miss C had an existing policy 
for her mortgage at the time, this wasnt the same as the term assurance policy which also 
provided terminal illness benefit so she thought it was a reasonable for Miss Cs 
circumstances. 
On Miss Cs behalf, Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed. He said that Miss C understood that the policy was taken out a long time ago 
but wasnt satisfied with Barclays giving this as a reason to provide minimal evidence for its 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for much the 
same reasons.
Given the passing of time, Barclays now has limited information still available from the time 
Miss C received the advice to start her policy. But I dont think this in itself is reason to 
believe that Miss Cs policy was mis-sold to her.
Ive considered all the information that Mr A has provided about Miss Cs circumstances at 
the time the policy was sold to her. And I can see that Miss C will have had a form of life 
cover from her existing policy with her then husband, which was to be used as a form of a 
repayment vehicle for an interest-only mortgage. However, given her situation and 
considering that she had financial dependants at that time, I dont think the recommendation 
of this level term assurance was unreasonable for her as it would have provided a lump sum 
should she have passed away, or been diagnosed with a terminal illness during the time it 
was in place. I also understand that she has since decided to surrender the previous policy, 
so she no longer has the life cover it provided. 
I appreciate all that Miss C and Mr A have said about her understanding of English at the 
time, and Im sorry that she feels this was taken advantage of. However, should she have 
been uncertain about the policy details or the cover it provided, then I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for her to look to clarify this at the time.
I think the policy documents are clear that it has no cash-in value at any time, and that the 
situation of when the £200,000 of cover would pay out were in the event of death during the 
term it is in place, or on the diagnosis of a terminal illness. From the information provided, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this payment would be made after the term of 15 years 
in any other event.
If I consider the amount of premiums that Miss C would pay over the 15-year term would be 
around £5,961.60, this is significantly less than the amount she believed the policy would 
pay out after this time. So, although I appreciate that Miss C may have believed that her 
policy would result in her receiving a lump sum of £200,000 after 15 years, I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold to her when the information for it shows that it is to provide protection in 
the event of death within that period rather than being a form of saving or investment.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman