DRN-4399083
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) provided to 
him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr P with a loan for £2,000.00 in June 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 12 monthly instalments of around £205. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr P and Bamboo had told us. And he thought that 
Bamboo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr Ps complaint be upheld. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr P 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo provided Mr P with a loan for £2,000.00 June 2016. This loan was due to be repaid 
in 12 instalments of around £205. Bamboo says it agreed to Mr Ps applications after he 
provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. And all of 
this information showed Mr P could to comfortably make the repayments he was committing 
to. On the other hand, Mr P has said the loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and Bamboo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Bamboo has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Bamboo searches appear to show that Mr P did have some existing debts but that 
his commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the 
credit searches, Mr Ps debt total at the time of the applications was low in comparison to his 
income. 
I accept that Mr Ps actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Bamboo obtained. But the key here is that its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, Im satisfied that 
Bamboo was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr P. I say this while especially mindful that, in 
any event, we havent been provided with anything which demonstrates the loan was 
obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr P - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman