DRN-2291568
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave him misleading 
information about the opening arrangements of his local branch, causing him unnecessary 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mr G needed to visit his local Halifax branch. He was in the process of transferring to 
another provider, but his benefit payments were still going into his Halifax account. Because 
of the account status, he could only access this money at the branch. At the time, 
businesses across the UK were being affected by the Covid 19 pandemic, and Mr G called 
Halifax to check that his nearest branches would be open. He was told both were closed.
However, when Mr G went into town that afternoon, he found his branch had been open 
earlier in the day. He contacted Halifax to query what hed been told on the phone, telling the 
bank that hed now have to make a further journey into town to withdraw money. This was of 
particular concern for him, given that prevailing government advice was to avoid 
unnecessary social contact.
In response, Halifax thought Mr G had said hed been told the branch was open when it 
wasnt. It reviewed his telephone call and said this confirmed it had told him the branch was 
closed. The bank went on to say that its branch had been closed on the day in question; a 
position it maintained for several months, including in its submissions to our service following 
a formal complaint from Mr G.
Our investigator noted that Halifax had initially misunderstood Mr Gs complaint. But she felt 
Halifax had supplied enough information to support that the branch was closed on the day of 
Mr Gs call. Based on this, the investigator didnt think she could reasonably conclude that 
the bank had misled Mr G.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions, which he felt were based on incorrect 
information from the bank. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed. In doing so, he 
obtained further evidence to support his position. This included a letter from the branch 
manager confirming that the branch was open on the day in question.
I asked Halifax whether it intended to revise its position, given it now accepts the branch was
open and that, by extension, Mr G was given the wrong information throughout. Rather than
make any settlement proposal, the bank has said it will await my decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought matters best resolved. I said:
The facts here no longer appear to be in dispute. Given that both parties accept Mr 
G was told during the telephone call that the branch was closed, and the belated 
acknowledgement from Halifax that the branch was in fact open, I find that Halifax did 
give him incorrect information. I can see that its customer service team contacted the 
local area management to establish the true position, and that it too was given the 
wrong information. That is unfortunate, but it has perpetuated the inconvenience Mr 
G experienced beyond the initial fact he had to make a second  and, as it turns out, 
unnecessary  trip into town.
I can further understand that having to do so was a matter of some concern for Mr G. 
While the government pandemic advice to stay home was broadcast the same day 
as his second visit, as Ive noted the prevailing advice was already to avoid 
unnecessary social contact. With this in mind, the degree of concern caused to Mr G 
at having to go out a second time during a pandemic was higher than might ordinarily 
be the case.
The issue at hand, then, is to determine the appropriate amount of compensation 
Halifax should pay Mr G in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him. To date, the bank hasnt proposed any figure. Mr G has, over the course 
of his complaint, suggested several different amounts. These range from £100 to 
£250. His latest correspondence indicated hed be willing to accept a payment of 
£200 to settle his complaint. Having carefully considered matters, and noting that 
Halifax has asked me to make a decision on this issue, I consider that to be an 
appropriate settlement.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response.
response to my provisional findings
Halifax didnt reply to my provisional findings. Mr G responded to acknowledge my 
conclusions. But he felt he should receive £250 compensation in light of the degree of 
inconvenience to which he felt hed been put both originally, and in proving his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont have any persuasive reason to reach a different conclusion from the 
one I set out in my provisional decision. Neither Halifax nor Mr G has sought to question the 
events as I described them. I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling over the steps he had to 
take to obtain evidence to support his case and the time taken to reach a resolution. But I 
dont think hes said anything more in his final submissions that leads me to think I should 
increase the settlement I proposed.
I do recognise the efforts Mr G made, and I dont doubt that it was frustrating for him that 
Halifax maintained its position for so long. As Ive already noted, without the letter from the 
branch manager, its likely both Halifax and I would have reached a decision based on what 
we now know to be incorrect information. However, its perhaps important to note that I have 
no power to award compensation as a punitive measure.Putting things right
As I indicated in my provisional decision, I carefully considered all the circumstances in order 
to determine what is, in my view, the appropriate level of compensation to award. I 
appreciate its not quite the amount Mr G is looking for, but I remain satisfied £200 is a fair 
settlement. Halifax should also issue a formal letter of apology to Mr G to acknowledge it 
gave him the wrong information.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. To settle it, Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) should, within 28 days of receiving Mr Gs acceptance of this decision, take the 
following steps:
1. pay (not credit) Mr G £200
2. send Mr G a letter apologising for the incorrect information it gave him about whether 
his branch was open
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman