DRN-3521138
Complaint
Mr F complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Background
Around January 2016, Mr F was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr F decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In June 2021, Mr Fs made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. He said that P 
had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, 
and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr F to enter into the contract with P. 
He has made the following points;
The system would be self-funding. 
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs and would leave him with profit.
P promised hed be eligible for a higher FIT rate. 
Mr F felt P used high pressure sales techniques to convince him to buy the system. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr F or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr F and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
Mr F re-iterated that he was verbally told the FIT payments and savings on energy 
bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the system would be self-
funding. 
Mr F pointed out that the payback year is set out as 10 years in Ps own paperwork 
He felt the rates used such as the RPI rate were an unreliable way to formulate 
estimated benefits  
Mr F added the savings he actually achieved were far less than that stated in the 
sales paperwork. 
Finally, he reiterated that he was promised a higher FIT rate, one which he was 
never eligible for as his propertys EPC rating meant he was couldnt get that higher 
rate.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr F could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr F and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr F says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr F and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, 
to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr F was told that the cost of the system was £7,912. The quote sets this 
out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price 
of the system was £7,912. The monthly payment was £83.47. The total amount of credit is 
£7,812 (after deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £15,124.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,912, it would 
cost Mr F more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr F has added he was pressured into buying the system. Pressure can be subjective so Id 
need persuasive evidence on what P said or did that made Mr F feel he couldnt say no. 
Nothing in the documents indicated the system was compulsory so I think Mr F was aware 
that he could say no. And while I fully believe P may have encouraged Mr F to buy the 
system, I havent heard enough to persuade me that it applied undue pressure on Mr F to 
buy the system and that Mr F didnt truly consent to buying it. 
Mr F has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of his meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr F could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr F could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £190.51, which results in an average monthly income of £15.87. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr F could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £240 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr F the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £646.51. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £83.47 (which annually is £1,001.64). As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT payment and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Mr F entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £83.47. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £83.47, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr F could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive, by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr F that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr F was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Mr F could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
I appreciate Mr F has pointed out that the quote says the payback year is year 10. However, 
that section also specifies that these figures dont include the finance charges. I think its 
therefore clear that this reference to payback year is in relation to the cash price of the 
system only. And as Ive explained above, I think Mr F was aware that he was paying for the 
system using finance and that it would cost him more than the cash price of the system. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr F that the system would pay for itself by 
year 16 (including the finance), and this is supported by the table above included in the 
quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr F. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2795.45 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Fs FIT statements and can see what the solar panels are generating on 
average annually. Im satisfied that the system is performing at around the expected level of 
performance. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I appreciate Mr F points out the RPI rates used varied over the years and are unpredictable. 
However, I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from 
the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, 
the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr F couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr F entered into the contract.
FIT rate 
I understand Mr F says he was promised that hed be eligible for a FIT rate of 12.47p per 
kWh, based on his properties EPC rating being D. However, his properties EPC rating was 
only rated E, so he was not eligible for the higher rate. 
My understanding is that in order to qualify for the higher FIT rate, a property needs to have 
an EPC rating of D or higher. If a property is rated is D or lower, than lower FIT rates would 
be offered. A property can improve its EPC rating by taking measures to make it more 
energy efficient (such as installing solar panels) so it is entirely possible that the rate 
changes as consumers make improvements to their properties. However, the FIT rates 
themselves (both higher and lower) are also subject to change. 
The higher rate of 12.47p per kWh rate was only available for systems installed before 
January 2016. Mr Fs system was installed in February 2016, which is after this date, so he 
would not have been eligible for this rate. It does appear that Mr F is on the higher rate 
which was the rate applicable at the time he completed his FIT application. 
Project Solar has explained that it cannot and would not guarantee FIT rates as the rate a 
customer is placed on depends entirely on when the system is installed, and when a 
customer completes their FIT application. Rates are reviewed and changed periodically  
beyond the control of P, so rates cant be guaranteed. P has also added that this issue was 
not raised with P following the completion of Mr Fs FIT application in 2016.   I havent seen any guarantees regarding FIT rates in the sales paperwork and given how the 
rates change (and that P was aware of this), overall, Im not satisfied Ive seen enough to 
persuade me that P promised Mr F a specific rate. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr F to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman