DRN-3758005
The complaint
Mr E complains, via his professional representative, about the advice he received in 1993 
when he transferred the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says that advice provided to him was unsuitable.
The advice was provided by a business which The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited is responsible for answering complaints about. So, for simplicity, in this decision Ill 
mainly refer to Royal London.
What happened
Mr E says he was introduced to Royal London by a work colleague and a subsequent 
appointment was arranged for it to provide financial advice. 
A financial planning fact find was completed in September 1993. Mr E was 35, married, with 
four children. He was employed and owned his own home. He had a mortgage, which had 
been taken out approximately a year earlier, for £47,000. He and his wifes combined 
household income was recorded as exceeding outgoings each month by over £200. And it 
was recorded that Mr E intended to retire at age 65. The notes from the time indicate that 
Royal London was asked to advise on several financial products including joint life insurance 
for Mr E and his wife, an endowment and the potential transfer of Mr Es DB scheme benefits 
to a personal pension with Royal London. The latter being the subject of this complaint.
Mr E provided authority for Royal London to obtain details from the DB scheme about the 
benefits he was entitled to. The trustees of the scheme confirmed the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) was £19,919.59 and that Mr Es benefits included a guaranteed 
minimum pension (GMP). Royal London estimated that £4,323.88 of the transfer value 
accounted for the GMP.
Royal London has provided details of an internal calculation it carried out on 
20 October 1993 which indicated it shouldnt recommend a transfer.
Royal London wrote to Mr E on 21 October 1993 saying it had carried out its transfer benefit 
check in respect of whether Mr E should transfer his benefits to a personal pension with it. It 
said, having done so, it recommended that he not proceed further. The letter explained this 
was because The current market investment conditions are such, that after taking a 
cautious assessment of the return on your pension transfer, we believe that the guaranteed 
retirement benefits under your existing scheme exceed what could reasonably be expected 
under a (Royal London) policy, for the transfer value being offered. It also noted that the 
normal retirement age under the DB scheme was 60, but Mr E was looking at taking a 
personal pension with a retirement age of 65. The letter said it would arrange a discussion to 
explain this further but noted that if Mr E still wished to proceed, despite its recommendation, 
it could provide the necessary forms for him to do so.
On 29 October 1993, Mr E signed a form confirming that he wished to proceed with a 
transfer of his benefits to the Royal London pension. The form also confirmed that Mr E 
understood hed been advised not to transfer his DB scheme benefits as it was not 
necessarily in his best interests to do so.
The transfer completed in November 1993 by which time the CETV had increased to 
£20,050.86. Two separate sub accounts were established  one for the portion of the 
transfer value relating to the GMP, the other for the remainder.
I understand in 2008, Mr E took benefits from the non-GMP sub account, drawing tax free 
cash and purchasing an annuity. And in 2018 he took the benefits from the GMP sub 
account  withdrawing the balance in full as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum.
Mr E complained to Royal London in December 2020, via his representative, about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. The representative said Mr E had put his trust in the adviser 
and they owed him a duty of care. They said Royal London hadnt made clear the value of 
the benefits hed be giving up by transferring or that valuable guarantees, including a 
spouses pension, were being lost. They said Royal London had indicated Mr E would 
receive much better returns. But hadnt made it clear how well the new plan would need to 
perform to match the benefits being given up. They said Mr E was a cautious investor with a 
low capacity for loss and they didnt think the advice provided was suitable.
Royal London said it had advised Mr E not to transfer and made this clear, so felt it had 
acted reasonably. But Mr E had chosen to proceed despite this advice  and confirmed as 
much at the time. So, it didnt think it had acted incorrectly. It also noted it had written to Mr E 
twice in 1999 as part of the industry wide Pension Review, offering to look into the advice it 
had given, but had received no response.
Mr Es representatives asked our service to consider the complaint. They said Mr E had not 
received the letters from Royal London in 1999 having changed address. And he still felt that 
the advice given was unsuitable.
An Investigator then looked into the complaint. He said, from the evidence hed seen it 
appeared likely Mr E was not living at the address the pension review letters were sent to, at 
the time they were sent. So, he couldnt reasonably say they were received. And he didnt 
think there was anything to suggest Mr E ought to have complained sooner than he did.
Our investigator didnt though think that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Royal London had considered Mr Es circumstances and advised him not to transfer. 
But he had chosen to proceed contrary to this advice and had signed a declaration 
confirming this. As a result, he didnt think Royal London had provided unsuitable advice or 
acted unreasonably.
Mr Es representatives did not agree. They disputed that Mr Es circumstances, in particular 
his retirement needs, were taken into account as they felt that the fact find provided was not 
particularly detailed. They said Mr E still maintained that the guaranteed benefits he would 
be giving up werent explained. They felt the recommendation letter was misleading as they 
believed it provided Mr E the opportunity to disregard the advice at the same time as the 
advice was given. They said there was a gap in the available information as there was no 
notes relating to further discussions between the recommendation and Mr E agreeing to 
proceed. And they felt the adviser had not acted correctly by allowing the transfer to proceed 
without a good reason for doing so.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to whether Mr E likely received the letters relating to the pension review in early 
1999, like our Investigator, based on the available information, I dont think I can say it was 
likely these letters were received. Based on what Mr E has said about changes to his living 
arrangements around the time and information held by the land registry, it appears likely 
Mr E was not living at that address to which the letters were sent, at the time they were sent. 
So, it is unlikely he received them. Copies of the letters themselves are also unavailable. I 
dont think this is unreasonable given how long ago they were sent. But it does mean I cant 
be sure, even if they had been received, that they wouldve made Mr E aware that there was 
potentially an issue with the advice previously provided. And Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr E ought to have been prompted to question the advice he was given, before he raised his 
complaint through his representatives. So, I agree with our Investigator that it is reasonable 
that we look into the matter.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The advice was provided in 1993. It isnt appropriate to apply todays regulations 
retrospectively. So, what Im considering is whether the actions of Royal London at the time 
were, in my view, fair and reasonable based on the requirements of it at that time  not if the 
advice or process followed would be considered suitable based on what we now know and 
the rules that apply today. 
Im satisfied the adviser was a member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO) when the advice was given. The rules set by LAUTRO in relation to 
selling practices would therefore have applied. In short these required Royal London to 
exercise due skill, care and diligence, deal fairly with Mr E, consider his position and relevant 
circumstances and not advise him to enter into a contract unless it thought doing so was in 
his best interests. 
Mr Es representatives have said they that feel there are gaps in the information available in 
this case. But the advice was given almost 30 years ago. I dont think its unreasonable, 
given how long ago these events took place that the documentary evidence available from 
the time may be incomplete. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Royal London completed a fact find with Mr E in September 1993  a copy of which has 
been provided to our service. This included gathering information about his personal 
circumstances, his mortgage, his existing pension arrangements and his income and 
expenditure. The same document set out the areas of financial planning Royal London was 
looking into with Mr E.
Mr Es representatives have said that they dont think sufficient information was gathered by 
Royal London about his circumstances  particularly in relation to his retirement objectives. 
But the rules in place at the time left it to the business providing advice to decide what 
information it gathered and recorded during the advice process. And I think the information 
gathered was reasonable, particularly based on what subsequently happened.After identifying what Mr E wanted to discuss, Royal London requested information from his 
DB scheme. I think this was appropriate. The benefits he wouldve been entitled to under this 
scheme were an important consideration. And Mr E had said during the fact find he was 
unsure of what these benefits were. So, Royal London was correct to gather these.
Ive seen information that this was provided directly to Royal London. And that it then carried 
out internal calculations relating to whether transferring was likely to improve Mr Es position. 
Following which, it deemed that a transfer was not in Mr Es interests. Had Royal London 
thought that a transfer was financially viable  that Mr E was likely to improve his pension 
benefits  then I might have expected it to have obtained more information about his 
retirement objectives before giving advice. But here, Royal London concluded a transfer 
wasnt in his interests. So, I dont think it needed to gather more information than it did. And I 
dont agree with Mr Es representatives that it didnt have regard for his circumstances. 
Mr Es representatives say he was told he could expect much better returns. But this isnt 
supported by the evidence Ive seen. 
Royal London wrote to Mr E on 21 October 1993 and was, in my view clear that it didnt 
recommend transferring his DB scheme. It said, we recommend that you do not proceed 
and set out that this was because it thought the guaranteed retirement benefits Mr E was 
already entitled to exceeded what he could reasonably have expected to achieve if he 
transferred. Setting out, in plain terms, that he wasnt likely to achieve better returns. So, 
Royal London had decided that transferring wasnt in Mr Es interests and advised him not to 
proceed. And I think it acted fairly and in line with the requirements of it at the time by 
coming to this conclusion.
Mr E says the guarantees he was giving up werent made clear to him. And the letter 
Royal London sent, advising against transferring, didnt include details of the benefits he was 
due under the DB scheme. It did though make it clear that there were guaranteed retirement 
benefits. So, I dont agree that it wasnt made clear his existing scheme had guaranteed 
benefits in some form. And I also cant rule out that these were discussed in more detail 
verbally because, although I appreciate Mr E doesnt recall them being disclosed, again this 
all took place almost 30 years ago. I wouldnt expect him to remember conversations that 
took place that long ago and memories can and do fade. 
But, in any event, based on the requirements at the time, even if there was no significant 
detail provided about the DB scheme benefits, I still think Royal London has acted fairly. 
That is because, again, Royal London told Mr E in writing that it did not recommend that he 
transfer. Had it been recommending a transfer on the basis he could receive improved 
retirement benefits Id have expected to see more detail and a comparison. But its 
recommendation was not to transfer because the guaranteed retirement benefits he was 
entitled to exceeded what he could reasonably expect from transferring. And I think 
Royal London has dealt fairly with Mr E by explaining this, and that it did so clearly.
Mr E then signed a form saying he wished to proceed with the transfer anyway, even though 
Royal London had advised him against doing so. And the transfer went ahead on this basis. 
Given Royal London had been clear it didnt recommend transferring, I dont think it acted 
unreasonably by acting on this instruction. And I dont think it needed to do any additional 
fact finding or provide more information before doing so  because the declaration Mr E 
completed was clear that he understood he was acting against advice.
Mr Es representatives have said that the declaration was pre-typed and was provided to 
Mr E. They also believe this declaration was provided at the same time as the letter 
recommending that he not transfer  which they dont think was in line with the requirements 
of Royal London at the time.It isnt clear if the form was provided alongside the advice letter. The advice letter said in 
closing If, despite our recommendation, you still wish to proceed, the representative will 
provide the forms that are required to complete the matter. The wording of this, in my view, 
suggests that there were no forms enclosed. And the date of Mr Es signature on the 
declaration is the same as on the application forms to the trustees to complete the transfer  
29 October 1993. Suggesting that, as the letter indicated would happen, all of these relevant 
forms were presented together and completed by Mr E after the advice had been provided in 
writing.
In any event though, I dont think Royal London has acted unreasonably. The LAUTRO rules 
didnt include directions for businesses in terms of how to deal with potentially insistent 
clients. And I dont think it was unreasonable of Royal London to inform Mr E that proceeding 
was still an option for him if he chose to or that providing a template form for him to authorise 
this was unreasonable. And that is because, again, I think it was clear in its communication 
with him that it was advising against transferring. I dont think it was unfair for it, having made 
its position clear, to inform Mr E, of his other options. Mr E was under no obligation to 
proceed with the transfer. But signed a declaration confirming he wished to do so. And, in 
the circumstances, I think it was reasonable of Royal London to act on those instructions.
Overall, I think the actions of Royal London were fair and reasonable in respect of Mr Es 
decision to transfer his DB scheme benefits. So, I dont require it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman