DRN-2878165
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc froze his account and later closed it.
What happened
Mr O had a business account with HSBC. In August 2019 he unexpectedly received a 
payment of £4,500. He says this came from a customer, but he had not invoiced the 
customer for that amount, and the customers wife called him to ask for it back as it had 
been made by mistake. Shortly afterwards he discovered that HSBC had blocked his 
account. It remained blocked until HSBC closed it in the following February. Mr O says this 
caused him very serious financial hardship, and affected his credit rating.
Mr O complained to HSBC twice, first about the block, and then about a letter HSBC had 
sent him in which it had accused him of not responding to its request for information. HSBC 
apologised for that letter, but it did not lift the block, and closed the account a few weeks 
later. So Mr O brought this complaint to our service.
HSBC offered to pay Mr O £150 for the delay, and for the erroneous letter. But it stood by its 
decisions to block and close the account. It shared some evidence with us in confidence.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said HSBC had closed the account in line 
with its terms and conditions, because it had had reasonable grounds to suspect that the 
customer had been defrauded. He recognised that the block had caused Mr O serious 
difficulty, but he suggested that Mr O could have avoided some of that by opening a new 
account elsewhere. He thought that the offer £150 was fair.
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why, although I am unable to go into much 
detail.
As Mr O knows, HSBC has a duty to prevent fraud. From what I have seen, I think it made 
its decision to block the account in good faith and with good reason. The investigation took 
longer than I would have expected, but I agree with the investigator that Mr O could have 
mitigated the consequences of this by opening an account with another bank, and so I find 
that the banks offer is fair. I also think that the banks decision to close the account was 
reasonable, and was done in line with the terms and conditions.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr O to decide whether he wishes to accept HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman