DRN-3720931
The complaint
Dr and Ms B complain that QIC Europe Ltd have declined their claim for storm damage to 
their property.  
What happened
Dr and Ms B held a buildings insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd. 
In February 2022 they made a claim under the policy for storm damage after their boundary 
fence and wall blew down during Storm Eunice.  
A surveyor was appointed and completed a site visit and report in March, which confirmed 
the damage was a result of the storm. 
The field surveyors report was subsequently reviewed by the in-house surveying team, who 
concluded that the damage had occurred as a result of poor design and workmanship. 
QIC then wrote to Dr and Ms B and declined the claim. They did offer Dr and Ms B £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the incorrect advice.  
Dr and Ms B were unhappy with this and they brought their complaint to us. 
  
One of our investigators has looked into Dr and Ms Bs complaint. He upheld the complaint 
and though that QIC should settle the claim.   
QIC disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether QIC have decided the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
Having considered all of the evidence carefully, I have upheld Dr and Ms Bs complaint, and 
I will explain why.  
In order for there to be a valid claim for storm damage we first look to see whether storm 
type conditions are present on the date the damage is said to have occurred.  I have 
checked the weather reports for February 2022 using our own resources, and I am satisfied 
that there were weather conditions sufficient to satisfy the policy definition of a storm. I note 
that QIC have already confirmed that they are satisfied that storm conditions were present.   
Secondly, we look to see whether the damage claimed for is typical of storm damage. Gusts 
of wind up to 70mph, such as in this case, can cause structural damage and uproot trees, so 
I consider that the damage being claimed for is consistent with damage caused by a storm.  
Finally, we look to see if the storm is the main, or dominant cause of the damage and this is 
where QIC have declined the claim.   
QICs field surveyor visited the property, took photographs and examined the wall. His report 
notes that the damage has been caused by the high winds experienced during the storm. He 
doesnt note any wear and tear or lack of maintenance to the wall or the fence which would 
have caused it to be unstable and contributed to the damage.     
However, this report was later reviewed by the in-house surveyor at QIC, who has declined 
the claim, saying the damage was not the result of a one-off storm and that the property has 
sustained damages consistent with poor workmanship. Due to installation of the fence 
panels and brick piers, the fence panels have acted as a sail, catching the wind and resulting 
in the damage to the boundary wall. The damage has been caused by poor design and is 
consistent that the damage is classified in the policy wording as poor workmanship..
QIC have therefore relied on the general exclusions in the policy which exclude cover when 
damage is caused by poor design (a latent defect which exists but which only causes a 
problem at a later stage under certain conditions
Ive thought about this and Im satisfied that this exclusion doesnt apply. Using brick pillars 
is fairly common design for boundary fences, and the photographs show that fences are not 
solid, having gaps between the palings. QIC havent provided any evidence to support their 
assertion that the fence has acted as a sail, or in what respect the design of the pillars was 
defective such that it would be classified as poor design. So, Im not persuaded by their 
reason for declining the claim, and Im satisfied that the storm was the dominant cause of the 
damage.      
Subsequent to the investigator upholding the complaint, QIC have also argued that the brick 
pillars form part of the fence structure as they act as brick fence posts, and so the claim is 
further excluded as the policy doesnt cover fences under the storm section of the policy 
unless your home is also damaged at the same time and by the same cause. In the policy 
Your home includes walls but doesnt include fence posts. 
Im not persuaded by this argument for two reasons. Firstly, I consider that the brick pillars 
are part of the boundary wall structure, not the fence structure, as they are an integral part of 
the wall and appear to have been constructed at the same time. Secondly, the field 
surveyors report states that The retaining wall lower section has been impacted in various 
areas, a comment which is supported by photographs, and so Im persuaded that for both 
these reasons, there is damage to your home which was caused at the same time, by the 
same cause.  
Putting things right
To put things right, QIC should settle the claim in line with the other terms and conditions of 
the policy.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Dr and Ms Bs complaint, and direct QIC Europe Ltd to settle the 
claim as above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 Joanne Ward
Ombudsman