DRN-1908710
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly failed to write off his credit card debt when 
his Debt Relief Order ('DRO') came to an end.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
The only issue for me to decide is whether the amount of compensation of £200 
recommended by the investigator, is fair in all the circumstances. TSB have agreed with the 
investigator's view. Mr S says that this doesn't adequately reflect the level of distress and 
inconvenience he suffered as a result of TSB's failures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator's conclusions for these reasons:
I can see that TSB's error did cause Mr S distress and inconvenience. When its 
internal systems didn't automatically write off the credit card debt at the end of the 
DRO period, Mr S needed to spend time trying to resolve the issue and the letters 
asking for repayment, caused him anxiety and stress.
TSB were still unable to update its systems once it became aware of the issue but I 
can see that Mr S's account is in a "queue" to be written off once the appropriate 'fix' 
has been found. In the meantime, TSB have told Mr S that he can ignore any further 
letters requesting payment of the debt.
Taking everything into account, I think £200 is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I say this because whilst I understand that Mr S didn't know 
what the issue was at the start, he's now been told that TSB aren't pursuing this debt 
and any further letters can be ignored.
I acknowledge that Mr S may still receive some letters from TSB until its internal 
system is updated. But I need to balance this with the fact he's been told by TSB to 
ignore any further letters because the debt has, in effect, been written off and it's 
been placed in a queue so that its internal systems will fully reflect this.
Mr S says that TSB's actions caused him to lose his job due to the time he 
spent resolving matters as well as the stress it caused. Whilst I sympathise with his 
situation, looking at the overall context, I think this loss was too remote for me to 
fairly hold TSB responsible for it - in other words, I don't think this was a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of anything done by TSB.
 
My final decisionFor these reasons, I'm upholding the complaint and I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman