DRN-4020340
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a transaction he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In 2022, Mr K purchased a voucher for a holiday from Groupon.
However, Mr K says Groupon charged his credit card when he meant to pay by debit card. 
And he says the travel agent he then spoke to used the voucher without his permission.
Barclays held Mr K liable for the payment in dispute. They said Groupon had charged the 
card details which Mr K gave them. They explained they couldnt recover Mr Ks money 
through a chargeback or Section 75 claim as they could only make a claim against Groupon, 
not the travel agent. And Groupon had provided the voucher as they were supposed to.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should explain that in this decision I only have the power to consider what Barclays 
did here. While I appreciate that Mr K would like us to investigate Groupon and/or the travel 
agent, we do not have the power to do that. They are outside of our jurisdiction.
Broadly speaking, Barclays can hold Mr K liable for the payment in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised it.
The payment in dispute used Mr Ks genuine card details, through a genuine merchant. So 
I can see that this transaction was authenticated properly. The question, then, is whether the 
evidence suggests that its most likely Mr K consented to the transaction, or not.
Groupon confirmed that they can only charge the card which their customer asks them to. 
Indeed, Mr K himself sent a video showing that one must tell Groupon what card to charge 
when making a purchase. And Mr K must have registered his credit card for Groupon to be 
able to use it  otherwise they wouldnt have had access to his card details. Indeed, under 
Groupons terms and conditions, Mr K was required to register a credit card to sign up. So 
the transaction was made on a card that Mr K had authorised Groupon to use. Mr K has 
confirmed that he was trying repeatedly to make this payment  albeit by debit card as he 
recalls  and he even asked the bank specifically to release the money. After the payment 
went out and he got the voucher, he confirmed in his correspondence with Groupon that it 
was him who made the purchase. No corresponding payment went out on Mr Ks debit card 
 only on his credit card.
On the balance of probabilities, I find its most likely that Mr K authorised this credit card 
payment, even if he recalls doing so on his debit card instead. So I think Barclays can hold 
him liable for it.
I understand that Mr K is unhappy with what the travel agent did next, and Ive thought 
carefully about whether Barclays could have made a claim for Mr K under the chargeback 
scheme or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
However, Mr Ks payment from Barclays was to Groupon, not the travel agent. So Barclays 
could only make a claim against Groupon, not the travel agent. And Groupon fulfilled their 
side of things  they provided the voucher that Mr K bought. So there were no grounds for 
Barclays to make a chargeback of Section 75 claim. Mr Ks dispute with the travel agent was 
not something Barclays had any power to help with.
So while I know this is not the answer Mr K was hoping for, I find that Barclays did nothing 
substantially wrong here. I can only suggest that Mr K pursues the travel agent directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman