DRN-3651684
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund her for a hotel booking she made on 
her credit card.
What happened
Mrs E booked a hotel using her Santander credit card. However, because of the global 
pandemic her flights were cancelled and she could not get there. She wasnt able to get a 
refund from the supplier  so she contacted Santander to make a claim.
Santander was not able to obtain refund through the chargeback scheme. And it didnt 
uphold a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) due to the 
lack of the correct debtor-creditor-supplier agreement.
Our investigator considered the matter. She did not uphold the case and said, in summary:
 there was no valid chargeback reason because the service was available and the 
booking was non-refundable; and
 despite the correct debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for a valid claim there was 
no breach of contract by the supplier. 
Mrs E is disappointed by the outcome. In summary she says that Santander (in light of the 
unprecedented global pandemic) could have done more for her. She says it is unfair that 
individuals should be out of pocket at the expense of large corporate organisations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E clearly feels strongly about losing out due to circumstances that were out of her 
control. I do understand her position, and I am sorry about what happened here due to 
events arising out of the global pandemic. However, it is important that I emphasise why 
Santander is involved here. It is not the supplier of travel services so any potential liability it 
has for the agreement between Mrs E and the supplier is limited to the specific card 
protections which are available. In this case chargeback and Section 75.
So in order to decide what is fair and reasonable for Santander to do as a third party to the 
agreement between Mrs E and the supplier, I have to take into account what the chargeback 
rules say, and what the law says about Section 75.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which Santander might have been able to recover funds 
for Mrs E. However, Santander is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. I have 
considered the chargeback scheme rules to decide if Santander has treated Mrs E fairly.
It appears that Santander tried to raise a chargeback for Mrs E based on the reason code 
related to a service not being provided. However, the chargeback was defended and 
Santander did not take things further.
I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in not pursuing the chargeback further here as it 
had a limited chance of success. I say this because the hotel did not cancel on Mrs E  
despite the flights being cancelled it was still able to provide the service. Furthermore, the 
booking conditions from the time of sale clearly show that the reservation is non-refundable 
in the event of customer no show/cancellation. So I dont think other chargeback reasons 
(such as those related to failure to provide a refund for cancellation) would have succeeded.
Section 75
Section 75 can allow Mrs E to hold Santander responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of goods or services 
purchased.
There are certain criteria that need to be met for Section 75 to apply, relating to the parties to 
the transaction, the way the payment was made and the price of the goods and services.
Santander has noted that there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement here for a 
valid claim. It says as Mrs E made the hotel booking through an agent she does not have a 
Section 75 claim in respect of the actions of the hotel.
By the looks of things Mrs Es credit card payment went directly to the hotel so I disagree 
with Santander here. However, even if I did agree with Santander that the payment went to 
the agent Mrs E would still have a Section 75 claim in respect of any contract she has with 
said booking agent.
However, although I think there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement of some kind here I 
think it is academic as I am not satisfied that either the terms of the hotel or the booking 
agent allow Mrs E to claim a refund in these circumstances. Because the hotel was available 
and the booking non-refundable there has been no breach of contract and Santander is not 
liable to provide Mrs E with compensation.
Once again, I am sorry to hear about the events which have left Mrs E out of pocket. 
However, despite the overall unfairness of the situation resulting from the global pandemic- 
this in itself does not mean that Santander is at fault. Considering its specific role in respect 
of chargeback and Section 75 I dont think it fair and reasonable to direct it to refund Mrs E 
here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman