DRN-4240667
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) added charges to his credit 
card when he used it to buy foreign currency.
What happened
Mr M says that, historically, he has called first direct to buy his foreign currency but was 
advised he needed to carry out the transaction on the website this time. He says that, when 
he did so, he inadvertently used his credit card rather than his debit card and incurred 
charges as a result. Mr M says that this would never have happened had he been allowed to 
carry out the transaction by phone. He adds that he also received incorrect information about 
making an over-payment.
first direct explained the account charges and said it was unable to evidence any bank error.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
the charges had been correctly applied and that Mr M was not given any incorrect 
information.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that he disagreed with the investigators view. In 
particular, he maintains that he was incorrectly told an over-payment was not allowed and 
that a warning should be provided about charges associated with using a credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charges applied
Mr M, by his own admission, mistakenly used his credit card, instead of his debit card, to 
purchase foreign currency online. Although I sympathise with his frustration at not being able 
to make the purchase on the phone, as he had done previously, I cant conclude that first 
direct made an error and Im satisfied that the charges were applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
Warning about Credit Card Charges
first direct has provided the following from its online system:
In its Travel Money section, under Fees, it says:
othe service is free unless you use a credit card.
And, on the order page, within the Payment details at checkout, Mr M would have 
seen the following:
oyour card issuer may apply additional charges and we recommend you 
check this with them before you buy your travel money. Any fee applied by 
your card issuer will not appear on your travel money order, but will appear on 
your card statement.
So, whilst I accept that Mr M did not intend to use his credit card for the purchase, I cant 
agree that there were no warnings about the potential charges as a result of doing so.
Misinformation
Finally, I have considered whether Mr M was given incorrect information about whether or 
not he could make an over-payment to minimise any interest charges. I have listened to all 
the relevant calls and found that the relevant discussion was with an employee in Customer 
Relations. When Mr M raised the possibility of putting his credit card into credit, she said Im 
not sure that we can put your credit card into credit. Mr M responded, yes, you can, to 
which the reply was Not that Im aware of. Id need to speak to someone in another 
department to see if thats feasible. Given that the employee had already said, earlier in the 
call, that she wasnt a specialist in credit cards, I find her response was reasonable.
So, whilst I understand why Mr M felt that he was given incorrect information, that wasnt 
actually the case and I note that Mr Ms credit card did, in fact, end up with a credit balance.
In summary, I dont find that first direct did anything wrong and I dont consider it needs to do 
anything further with respect to Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman