DRN-4000581
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) and 
the way theyve settled the claims she made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C held a pet insurance policy, underwritten by CGI to cover her dog, who Ill refer to as 
M. Unfortunately, in late 2021, M suffered an accident that required treatment. So, Mrs C 
took M to her vet, who Ill refer to as W, and M was treated for her injuries from October 
2021 through to early 2022. W then sought payment for this treatment from CGI.
CGI settled the claim with W in April 2022. But they applied several deductions, which meant 
Mrs C was left owing a significant amount to W for the treatment they supplied to M. Mrs C 
was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs C didnt think any of the deductions CGI applied when settling the claim were fair. And 
she was unhappy with the financial situation this left her in, as she had to cover the 
outstanding fees with W herself. So, Mrs C wanted CGI to reimburse her the amount shed 
had to pay W, as if the claim had been settled in full with no deductions. And she wanted to 
be compensated for the trouble and upset shed been caused during this process.
CGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the deductions had been 
applied fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs C held. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything further. Mrs C remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought CGI had acted fairly 
when deducting Mrs Cs excess, and when deducting the costs of pre-operative blood tests 
and fluid therapy. But they didnt think the deductions applied regarding the CT reporting fee, 
general anaesthetic costs and orthopaedic consultation fees were reasonable. Nor did they 
think CGI had supplied evidence to show the deductions regarding the medication mark-ups 
were fair. And they didnt think CGI were fair to rely on the 90-day notification exclusion, as 
they didnt feel Mrs C missing this deadline prejudiced CGI in a negative way. So, they 
thought CGI should reimburse Mrs C the total of the deductions they felt were unreasonable, 
plus 8% statutory interest on this amount from the date Mrs C paid W, to the date of refund. 
And they thought CGI should pay Mrs C £100 for the trouble and upset shed been caused 
by CGI not applying the policy terms fairly.
Mrs C accepted this recommendation, while making comments regarding the finding 
surrounding the blood tests and fluid therapy. But CGI didnt. CGI provided additional 
evidence regarding the medication mark up, and how this was calculated. And they provided 
several additional comments maintaining their position that the majority of the deductions 
were fair. But CGI did agree to reimburse Mrs C for the additional cost of the general 
anaesthetic that had initially been deducted.
Our investigator considered this information, but their view remained unchanged. CGI 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2023, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its my intention to uphold the complaint. But my intended decision differs 
slightly from the view of our investigator.
Before I explain why Ive reached my intended decision, I think it would be useful for me to 
explain how Ive considered the complaint. Its not my role to re-underwrite the claim as I 
dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, its my role to consider the actions CGI have 
taken, in this case the deductions theyve applied, and consider whether I think CGI have 
acted fairly when applying them. And as part of this, Ive thought about whether CGI have 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs C held.
I recognise both Mrs C and CGI have accepted our investigators view that the deduction 
originally applied to the general anaesthetic should be paid to Mrs C. As this isnt in dispute, 
I dont intend to discuss this any further.
I also recognise that Mrs C and CGI both accepted our investigators view that the 
deductions applied to the blood tests and fluid therapy were fair. So, I dont intend to discuss 
this in great detail. But I do appreciate Mrs C made some comments regarding this issue, so 
I think its right for me to provide my comments. Ive seen CGIs deductions list, which I think 
make it reasonably clear that fluid therapy wouldnt be covered for a dog of Ms age unless it 
was a life-saving situation. And it wasnt that situation on this occasion. Ive also seen the 
terms and conditions of the policy Mrs C held and I can see that it makes reasonably clear 
that vet fees would only be paid if they are reasonable and essential for a pets health and 
wellbeing. CGI have provided evidence that shows the industry regards blood tests for dogs 
of Ms age to be elective, and so, I dont think I can say CGI have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when deeming them not to be essential on this occasion. So, I dont think CGI 
acted unfairly when deducting the costs associated to these treatments.
Ive then turned to the main deductions that remain in dispute. And for ease of reference, Ive 
considered the deductions under headings to prevent any confusion.
Claim made for treatment outside of 90-day exclusion
Its not in dispute that, in late March 2022, Mrs C submitted a claim for costs arising from 
treatment that took place in December 2022. And, that this treatment occurred more than 90 
days before Mrs C submitted the claim. Its also not in dispute that the policy Mrs C held 
contained an exclusion explaining that no cover would be provided for claims made outside 
of this time period. So, I understand why CGI have deducted the costs of this treatment and I 
cant say theyve acted outside of the policy terms when taking this decision.
But crucially, I also need to be satisfied that, as well as acting in line with the terms of the 
policy, it was fair for CGI to rely upon this exclusion in this situation. And I dont think it was. 
It is our services standard approach, based on the rules set out by the industry regulator, 
that for a business to exclude part of a claim based on a breach of the terms and conditions, 
we must also be satisfied that CGI were prejudiced by this breach. And in this situation, I 
dont think CGI were.
I can see during this process Mrs Cs first claim was still outstanding. And Im satisfied the 
treatment that has been excluded was a continuation of the treatment Mrs C had already 
claimed for. So, while I appreciate Mrs C was slightly delayed in submitting the second claim to CGI, I dont think they have been negatively impacted and so, I dont think theyve acted 
fairly when relying on this exclusion on this occasion. I appreciate CGI disagree with this and 
have stated late notification can impact their ability to process increases in premiums and 
other similar things. But I can see the delayed notification was during the same policy year 
the claim was settled. And Mrs C has confirmed her policy premium increased after the claim 
had been settled. So, I think CGI had the ability to consider the claim when calculating 
premiums and any associated risk and because of this, I dont think this changes my opinion. 
Ive turned to what I think CGI should do to recognise this later within my decision.
MRI/CT reporting fee
CGI have deducted this fee as they feel this is a referral fee for another vets opinion. And 
theyve referred to the term, under the heading what is not insured that states any costs 
relating to charges made by your vet to provide or fill out a prescription, completing a claim 
for, referring your vet to another veterinary practice, any interpretation fees and any fees for 
post, packaging and courier fees.
But Ive seen an email from W, which confirms the CT scan was completed within their 
veterinary hospital. And I can see in the clinical notes that on 4 November 2021, the same 
day at the CT scan, it states that there was an orthopaedic internal referral. So, while I can 
understand why CGI would assume there had been a referral to another veterinary practice 
based on the way W invoiced for the treatment, Ive seen nothing to satisfy me that any of 
the treatment was undertaken outside of W. So, I dont think CGI have acted fairly when 
relying on the exclusion above to deduct the associated cost.
And while I appreciate the term also refers to interpretation costs, I think it follows that when 
a CT scan is conducted, this scan will need to be interpreted in order to ensure the results 
are understood and a treatment plan put in place. So again, I dont think I can say there is an 
exclusion that has been fairly applied.
Orthopaedic consultation fee
I can see CGI have capped the amount they covered for each consultation fee to £200, 
referring to the term in the policy which states they wont cover any fees where the cost of a 
referral consultation exceeds £200. But in this case, I cant see that there has been an 
external referral.
While I do recognise M was referred by an in-house veterinary nurse to an in-house 
consultant, I would expect W to ensure M was seen by an appropriate specialist. And as this 
referral was made in house, I dont think its fair for CGI to rely upon this exclusion to deduct 
the costs of the consultation charged for over £200 as W are the veterinary practice making 
the claim. I also cant see anywhere within the terms of the policy that I feel makes it clear 
that any referral made in house would fall under this exclusion and I would expect this to be 
made explicit, as it essentially caps any consultation with any vet within a practice other than 
the first vet that a pet sees. And so, I think a customer could be disadvantaged through no 
fault of their own by which vet they are booked into see by the practice themselves. So 
again, I dont think CGI have applied the deductions fairly here.
Medication mark up 
Within the terms and conditions of the policy, I can see within the general exclusions it 
explains that CGI may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary 
treatment, medication and dispensing fees. So, under the terms of the policy, I think CGI 
were able to cap the amount they would pay for medication and remove any surplus as a 
deduction. But when our investigator issued their view, CGI hadnt provided evidence to show the standard price for the medication M received, and that they had capped the 
amount they paid to 100% of this amount.
Since this view has been issued, CGI have provided our service with this information. And 
having considered it, Im satisfied that CGIs deductions correlate with the surplus amount W 
claimed for the medication, after a 100% mark up had been applied. So, I dont think I can 
say CGI have acted unfairly when applying this deduction and because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more regarding this aspect of the complaint.
I appreciate this is a change from our investigators initial view. And I appreciate the 
deductions differed for the same medication across two claims. But that is because W 
charged two different prices for the same medication, not because of any error CGI made.
Other deductions and amounts not paid
I can see CGI have deducted two excess amounts, totalling £180. While I appreciate Mrs Cs 
frustration regarding this, as the treatment was a continuation of the initial injury, I can see W 
asked the claims to be separated as M was being treated for different conditions and 
investigations. And I think the terms and conditions make it clear an excess will be applied to 
each claim made on the policy. So, I dont think I can say CGI have acted unfairly when 
deducting the premiums from the total settlement amount they paid to W.
Im aware Mrs C is also unhappy that the £100.44 she initially paid on account to W wasnt 
considered. And she feels this shouldve applied towards her excess. But this was a 
payment made to W directly, and not to CGI. So, I dont think CGI were obliged to put this 
towards an excess amount that was applicable. Im also unable to see that the £100.44 Mrs 
W paid for was put to CGI as part of any of the claims raised. So, as this wasnt claimed for, I 
dont think I can see CGI have acted unfairly when not reimbursing this.
As I think some of the deductions have been applied unfairly, Ive then turned to what I think 
CGI should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what CGI should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mrs C back in the position she wouldve been, had CGI acted fairly in the 
first instance.
In this situation, had CGI acted fairly, I think they wouldve covered the costs of the 
deductions applied regarding the treatment not claimed for within 90 days, the CT/MRI 
reporting fee and the full consultations fees, as well as the full general anaesthetic fees. And 
this wouldve meant Mrs C had a lesser amount payable to W.
So, I think these amounts should be paid to Mrs C, along with 8% from the date Mrs C paid 
W, to the date of payment to recognise the length of time Mrs C has been without access to 
these funds. Id expect Mrs C to evidence when she paid W, so CGI is able to calculate this 
interest correctly.
And had CGI settled the claim fairly in the first instance, I dont think Mrs C wouldve needed 
to continue to engage with CGI, W and ourselves in an attempt to recoup the amounts she 
felt had been deducted unfairly. Im satisfied this has taken time and effort from Mrs C, and I 
dont doubt it wouldve been both stressful and upsetting during that process. Our 
investigator recommended CGI pay Mrs C £100 to recognise this trouble and upset. And I 
think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what 
I wouldve directed, had it not already been made. So, I intend to direct CGI to pay this additional amount.
Responses
Mrs C responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. But she didnt think the 
provisional decision considered her comments regarding a mistake she felt was present in 
the third invoice. Mrs C explained that although the third invoice itemised a £0 excess 
charge, she felt the £90 excess amount had been deducted. So, she thought this needed to 
be paid to her.
CGI also responded to the provisional decision and accepted it, agreeing to pay Mrs C the 
costs outlined along with 8% interest once evidence of payment had been provided by Mrs 
C. And they agreed to pay Mrs C an additional £100 in compensation. But CGI made it clear 
that they would apply the medication mark-up deductions to the claim Mrs C made outside of 
the 90-day exclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial conclusions.
I recognise CGI have accepted the directions I set out in my provisional decision. And Mrs C 
also accepted these same directions. As they have been accepted by both parties, I dont 
intend to discuss them any further. Instead, I will comment solely on the additional 
comments both parties have made outside of this acceptance.
CGI explained that, when paying Mrs C the claim made outside of the 90-day exclusion, they 
intend to deduct the medication mark-up over 100%. I explained with my provisional decision 
that I felt CGI had applied this deduction fairly, in line with the policy terms, to the previous 
invoices that had been settled and so, I think it follows that CGI are fair to apply the 
deductions here. But for completeness, CGI have provided me with evidence that confirms 
the medication was charged for over the 100% mark up to reassure Mrs C these deductions 
will be applied fairly and correctly.
Mrs C has also made comments about the third invoice settled by CGI, where when 
deductions were applied to the original invoice amount, there shouldve been £602.29 left for 
CGI to pay to W. But on the invoice, it states that the total payment made was for £512.30, 
which is £90 less than what the invoice with deductions showed. So, I can understand why 
Mrs C would question this and feel as though the excess had been applied, even though it 
was listed on the invoice as £0.00.
But Ive totalled the payments of all three invoices that related to the one aspect of the claim 
Mrs C made. And having done so, after deductions, the total payment amounts shown on 
the invoices total £1,536.84. Yet I can see that on Ws statement, for the aspect of the claim 
the three invoices relate to, a payment of £1626.84 was made by CGI on 11 April 2022.
And this payment of £1,626.84 is exactly £90 more than the total payable amounts 
represented on the invoices, Im satisfied that the £90 excess was deducted, and that CGI 
did pay a total of £602.29 for the third invoice as they shouldve done. I appreciate this 
wasnt made clear on the invoices Mrs C had seen but I hope this provides her with some 
reassurance that the total amount paid out was indeed correct. And the original finding I 
made in my provisional decision that two excess amounts were applied fairly remains.Putting things right
Both Mrs C and CGI accepted the award and directions I set out in my provisional decision. 
Within this I explained that, had CGI acted fairly, they wouldve covered the costs of the 
deductions that were applied regarding the treatment not claimed for within 90 days, the 
CT/MRI reporting fee and the full consultations fees, as well as the full general anaesthetic 
fees. And that if they had done this, Mrs C wouldve held less to pay to W.
So, I think these amounts should be paid to Mrs C along with 8% statutory interest from the 
date Mrs C paid W, to the date of refund to recognise the length of time Mrs C has been 
without access to these funds. But CGI are able to apply any deductions to this amount 
regarding the medication mark-up, as Ive discussed above in this decision. Mrs C will need 
to provide CGI with proof of when she paid W directly, so the interest can be calculated 
correctly.
CGI have also agreed to pay Mrs C £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs C 
has been caused by needing to engage with CGI, and the time and effort this has taken, to 
recoup the amounts that have been deducted unfairly. My decision remains the same that 
this payment is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs C the total amount of the deductions that have been applied unfairly, as 
stipulated above, plus 8% statutory interest from the date Mrs C paid W to the date of 
payment from CGI; and
Pay Mrs C £100 to recognise the trouble and upset shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman