DRN-2773712
The complaint
Mr K complains Santander UK plc (Santander) incorrectly charged him interest on his credit 
card account. 
What happened
Mr K has a credit card account with Santander and noticed he had been charged interest on 
his recent purchases when he was advised he wouldnt, provided he paid off the purchase 
amount in full. When Mr K queried this with members of staff at Santander, he says he was 
given conflicting information on how interest is charged on purchases using his credit card. 
Mr K says one member of staff was rude on the telephone and he hasnt had a clear 
explanation of why he was charged interest when he believed he was entitled to an interest 
free period when making the purchases on his card. Mr K says although Santander have 
reversed the interest charges and offered a modest amount of compensation, this doesnt go 
far enough for the trouble he has gone through and feels that some of the staff need proper 
training to avoid further issues like this . 
Santander says they accept that some conflicting information was given to Mr K, but the 
interest charged on his credit card account was correct and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the credit card account. Santander feel the offer of £25 by way of apology is 
sufficient given they have already refunded the small amount of interest charged to Mr Ks 
credit card account. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
The investigator says the interest was applied correctly as Mr K needed to have paid off the 
full balance on his credit card to avoid any interest being charged for any purchases made 
using the credit card. The investigator felt Santander had acted fairly by refunding the 
interest charged and offering £25 by way of an apology for the confusion caused but didnt 
agree Santanders staff had been rude when he discussed the matter over the telephone 
with them. 
Mr K was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand with would be frustrating for Mr K to have been charged interest on his 
credit card purchases after he had raised this with Santander before he carried out these 
transactions. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander were correct to 
charge the interest on his credit card account when they did. I will also look to see if 
Santander adequately compensated Mr K  for the mixed messages given to him, from 
members of their staff, surrounding how interest is calculated on purchases when using his 
credit card.   
Mr K says his credit card statement shows he is entitled up to 56 days interest free on his 
credit card purchases and feels he has been charged incorrectly and that he was given 
conflicting information by members of Santanders staff when he questioned this. 
The first thing to say is Santander have accepted that Mr K has been given some misleading 
information from some of their staff, but they have acknowledged this and refunded the 
interest charged as a gesture of good will and offered £25 for this, by way of an apology. 
That said, they dont agree their staff were rude over the telephone but were simply trying to 
explain how the interest charges work on credit card purchases. Santander also disagree the 
interest charged was incorrect and have pointed out that interest is payable on purchases 
under the offer he has, unless the full balance of his credit card, not just purchase balances, 
are cleared.
I have looked at the credit card terms and conditions and they state: 
Youll be charged interest at your standard rate on any purchase balance remaining after 
the introductory 0%interest offer ends.
 If you use your card for new purchases after the 0% offer period ends, youll get up to 56 
days interest free if you pay your balance on time and in full each month. If you dont pay 
your balance in full (including any balance transfers youve made), youll be charged interest 
on new purchases, as well as any remaining purchase balance.
Your standard interest rate is printed on your monthly statement. This is the interest that 
youll be charged if youre not in a 0% offer period.
So to be clear here, while Mr K may not agree, he would have needed to have cleared the 
entire balance of his credit card (including balance transfer balances) to avoid paying 
interest on any purchases made outside the introductory purchase offer, which had expired, 
or benefit from up to 56 days interest free period, he believed he was entitled to. 
I understand the point Mr K makes about having been told conflicting information and I can 
see that Santander have acknowledged this and refunded any interest charged as a gesture 
of goodwill. In addition, Santander have agreed to provide feedback to the staff involved and 
log a suggestion about the clarity of the promotional credit card offer. I also understand 
Santander have offered to pay Mr K £25 by way of an apology for any confusion and 
inconvenience this may have caused him . 
Like the investigator, I have listened to the telephone conversation Mr K had with Santander, 
but I cant say that the member of staff was being rude or unhelpful  here, but more of case 
of her trying to explain in simple terms, how the interest on credit card purchases work. I am 
satisfied she tried to explain the statement cycle, the terms of the zero percent offer terms he 
had with them, as clearly as she could. 
Given all of this, on balance, I am satisfied Santander have acted reasonably and while Mr K 
will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of them here. I will leave it 
with Mr K to contact Santander, if he still wishes to take up their offer of £25, by way of an 
apology. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman