DRN-1937791
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs W are unhappy with the prices AXA PPP Healthcare Limited quoted them for 
private health insurance cover. 
What happened
Mrs W was a member of her employers group private healthcare insurance scheme. Mr M 
was also a beneficiary of the policy. The policy included various optional benefits and was 
underwritten on a continued medical exclusions underwriting basis. That means that it 
covered any pre-existing conditions Mr M and Mrs W had declared to any previous insurers 
and which were covered by a previous policy. 
In September 2019 Mrs W called to say that she was planning to leave her employer and 
wanted to discuss her options for cover. The following month Mr M called to authorise two 
procedures as part of an in-patient stay. The procedure was authorised together with a 
follow up consultation. In November 2019 Mrs W left her employer and contacted AXA to 
discuss the cover options again. She was provided with quotes for three options: 
Quote 1  approximately £11, 000 for a policy with full outpatient cover, 
comprehensive cancer cover, therapies and mental health cover. This would include 
Mr Ms planned and pending treatment
 
Quote 2  approximately £9300 for similar cover to Quote 1 but with limitations on the 
hospitals and specialists that could be used 
Quote 3  approximately £3000 for a policy underwritten on a moratorium basis.
Mr M then claimed for the costs of the two procedures which were authorised in October 
2019. AXA declined the claim on the basis that the cover was no longer in place. Mr M and 
Mrs W are unhappy because AXA declined the claim and because they feel the prices 
quoted were expensive and unfair. 
AXA said that they had declined the claim in line with the policy terms as Mr M was no 
longer covered at the point the treatment took place. They also said, in summary, the prices 
quoted reflected the risk to the insurer and the level of cover on offer. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
AXA had fairly declined the claims in line with the policy terms and he thought AXA had 
adequately justified the prices quoted to Mr M and Mrs W.
Mr M and Mrs W didnt agree. In summary, they remain of the view that AXA was trying to 
price them out of cover and that theyve been treated unfairly. They also said that AXA was 
trying to recover the cost of the planned treatment. So, I need to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the claim unreasonably rejected? 
AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions say: 
All cover ends when the lead member stops working for the company or if the 
companys group membership ends
Mrs W was the lead member on the policy. Mr Ms treatment was authorised before Mrs W 
left her employer. But her policy had lapsed with effect from the 18 November 2019. Mr M 
had some treatment on that date and further treatment later in the year. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AXA to reject the claim as the cover under the policy had ended. 
Pre-authorisation isnt a guarantee to pay all the costs which are invoiced  thats standard 
industry practice. And, given the circumstances, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Mr M to check with AXA that hed still be covered if he went ahead with the treatment after 
Mrs W had left her job, if that was a point of concern for him.
Mr M has also made the point that the treatment was delayed. Ive not seen evidence of that 
but I dont think it is central to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because the availability 
of the consultant, or specific facilities, are not something AXA is responsible for even if they 
have a form of contractual relationship with the hospital. If Mr M is unhappy with delays on 
the hospitals part, its something hell need to address with the relevant supervisory or 
regulatory bodies. 
Was the price increase unfair?
I think its important to highlight that Mrs W was a member of a group scheme before she left 
her job. The nature of a group scheme means an insurer is spreading the risk across a 
larger pool of people. So, it isnt unusual for insurers to be able to offer a higher level of 
cover at a more competitive price. 
Mr M and Mrs W had a high level of cover under the group scheme as they were covered on 
a continuing medical exclusions underwriting basis. I think this is significant because 
Quote 1 was based on the same level of cover being offered. So, Mr M and Mrs W would 
have enjoyed the same high level of cover, and had any pre-existing conditions covered. 
Thats also significant because Mr M was, at that time, awaiting surgery. Quote 3 was 
cheaper because it was on a moratorium basis and therefore excluded pre-existing 
conditions for a specified period. 
Based on the information Ive been provided with in relation to the pricing, I think AXA has 
adequately demonstrated that their calculations were based on the difference in underwriting 
terms and the level of risk Mr M and Mrs W presented to the insurer at that time. I appreciate 
that Mr M feels that this was an attempt by AXA to recover the costs of the procedure he 
was waiting for. But I dont think thats reflected in the evidence Ive been provided with.  
Mr M and Mrs W were able to obtain cover at a cheaper price elsewhere. But insurers price 
their policies in lots of different ways and take into account various different risk factors  
those are commercial decisions they are entitled to make. So, it doesnt automatically mean 
AXA has treated them unfairly simply because theyve been able to source cover at a 
cheaper price. My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman