DRN-4121379
The complaint
Mr A complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc and the service he received after he notified 
them of his involvement in a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with AXA, in January 2021 he said he was involved in a 
road traffic accident that wasnt his fault. Mr A used the services of a claims management 
company (CMC). Mr A wasnt happy as hed had to pay a substantial amount, for the costs 
of the accident - £5,000. He said that AXA had offered to pay towards his repair costs but 
hadnt. So, he wanted to be compensated for this. He complained to AXA.
AXA said they hadnt handled his accident claim so they wouldnt reimburse Mr As repair 
costs as these had been settled with the CMC. But accepted theyd failed to act on an email 
sent by Mr As intermediary. To compensate Mr A for their failing in customer service they 
offered him £150, and a further £25 as a gesture of goodwill as theyd hadnt complied with 
their complaint handling timescales.
Mr A wasnt happy with AXAs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the main crux of Mr As complaint was about how his accident claim 
was handled. As AXA didnt handle Mr As complaint, he couldnt say theyd done anything 
wrong. But there was a delay in responding to Mr As request for help with the 
reimbursement of his costs. But our investigator said the way AXA had put this right was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome to the complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain
exactly what Ive been able to consider. 
CMCs can offer what are known as accident management services, which means they 
would provide certain services to someone whod been involved in a road traffic accident 
that wasnt their fault. For example, they would typically arrange a hire car, where needed, 
organise repairs, or determine the pre-accident value of the car if its deemed non repairable 
and then claim these costs back from the at fault third party insurer (TPI). The advantage to 
the non-fault driver is that as they dont make a claim against their own motor insurance 
policy. This means they dont have to pay their motor insurance policy excess and there isnt 
any impact on their no-claims discount if they have one.  
Mr A said he wasnt at fault for the accident as his car was hit whilst parked and unattended. 
I can see Mr A chose to use the services of a CMC to handle his non fault claim. I cant see 
that AXA referred Mr A to the CMC or that they were acting as their agent so the progression 
of his claim and the way it was handled falls under the responsibility of the CMC not AXA. 
So, I havent considered the activities or actions of the CMC as part of this complaint, only 
whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr A.
From what I can see the TPI accepted liability prior to it being decided in court. In July 2022 
Mr A asked AXA to consider the costs under his motor insurance policy. An intermediary for 
him told AXA that Mr A was invoiced for the repairs and wanted this to be dealt with by them. 
I can see that AXA said theyd consider the costs of the repairs but not the costs associated 
with any hire car that had been provided. And that before considering the repair costs they 
needed to see images of the damage to Mr As car and a full engineers report. But it wasnt 
until October 2022 when Mr A sought an update about what was happening that AXA looked 
into whether they could provide any assistance to Mr A with the repair costs. I can see the 
intermediary sent the requested documentation as well as email confirmation that the TPI 
had accepted liability. 
I can also see that In July 2022 a settlement was agreed between the TPI and Mr As 
solicitors for the cost of the accident, and a payment of £5,000 was sent to the solicitors 
acting for him. I can also see the solicitors said theyd send the payment onto the CMC to 
pass onto Mr A. 
I know this has been a frustrating time for Mr A as he said the settlement hasnt been sent to 
him. And even though he wasnt at fault for the accident hes had to pay £5,000 for the 
accidents repair and hire car costs plus solicitors fees. But I cant direct AXA to pursue the 
settlement costs of the repairs for Mr A with the TPI as the claim was settled by them in July 
2022, and the settlement payment was sent to representatives acting for Mr A. It will be for 
Mr A to pursue the settlement payment either from the CMC or the solicitors who acted for 
him. 
But AXA by not responding as quickly as they could have to Mr As request for assistance 
added to the distress and inconvenience he experienced. I can see theyve offered £150 for 
this which I think is fair and reasonable.
I can also see theyve offered Mr A £25 as they didnt respond to his complaint within the 
agreed timescales. Our jurisdiction and remit for complaint handling will  be dependent on 
the precise nature of the complaint and its surrounding circumstances. As Mr A hasnt asked 
us to consider this element within his complaint, I wont comment on this further.
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered  Mr A £150 to settle this complaint. I think thats fair in all 
the circumstances, so I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more to put 
things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman