DRN-1589000
The complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 2003, Halifax sold Mr R a monthly premium PPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments 
if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. It was sold as part of a 
package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed, and also felt he 
hadnt been informed about the level of commission payable, so the complaint was passed 
to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Mis-sale
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 2003. So, Ive reached my 
decision on the balance of the remaining evidence, together with experience of Halifaxs 
sales processes at the time. 
While theres nothing to conclusively show Mr R agreed to the PPI, from whats known of 
Halifaxs sales processes back then, I dont think its likely that it would have added this 
cover without getting his agreement to take it. Thats also supported by Halifaxs computer 
records of the sale which show hed answered certain questions in relation to the PPI.
I realise Mr R feels he wasnt made aware of the PPI and that these findings will be 
frustrating for him given the lack of available evidence. But on balance I think its at least 
equally likely he was aware of the PPI and agreed for it to be added.   
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr R. That meant Halifax needed to take steps to 
ensure its advice was right for him. Regardless of what steps it took, I think the PPI it 
recommended was right for him in any case. 
For example, from what Mr Rs told us about his circumstances, he was eligible for the cover 
and wasnt significantly affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited 
cover for. Ive no reason to think hed have found the monthly premium unaffordable either.
It seems Mr R was entitled to some sick pay from his employer for between three and six 
months and that he didnt have any other means of meeting his repayments if he couldnt 
work. The PPI benefits were considerable and would have paid out on top of his sick pay, 
potentially for up to 24 months per claim. It covered him for unemployment too.
Given Mr R had arranged long-term borrowing that was secured against his home, I think 
hed have valued the additional protection the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr R enough information about the PPI to allow him to decide for 
himself if it was right for him. I think its possible that the information it gave him could have 
been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable 
for him, I dont think that better information would have changed his decision to take it. I think 
hed still have thought it provided useful benefits at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Rs lost out because of how Halifax sold 
him the PPI.
Commission and profit share
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued 
some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Halifax has given us information that shows Mr Rs mortgage was taken out in 1997 and 
ended in 2006. So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So, Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr R paid for the PPI they had 
with his mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman