DRN-1058732
 
The complaint
Mr D says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
 What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan and four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr D 
between October 2015 and December 2017.  There was a break of over a year between the 
repayment of loan one and taking out loan two. So I think loan two was the start of a new 
chain of borrowing. 
Mr D borrowed amounts ranging between £100, for loan one, and between £700 and £2,200 
for loans two to five. Loans two to four were repaid in three monthly instalments and loan five 
in twelve. Mr D struggled to repay loan five, but from what I can see all his loans were 
repaid. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. MYJAR disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish whether 
Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr D for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr D said he earned £2,500 a month. He said his monthly outgoings totalled 
about £1,000 for loans two to five. There was nothing of concern in MYJARs credit checks. 
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Mr D provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr D was saying.  So I cant say MYJAR was wrong to have approved loans 
one to three. 
I think MYJARs affordability checks were sufficient for loan four, but I think it should have 
made better checks for loan five. This is because of the size and length of the loan (£2,200 
over 12 months) and because it was the fourth loan in this chain of lending. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr D with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
four. I say this because:
By loan four, Mr D had taken out three loans in seven months and the amount hed 
borrowed had increased in his relationship with MYJAR.
From loan four onwards Mr D was provided with a new loan within weeks of settling a 
previous one. So MYJAR ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr D was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan five was 
taken out twelve months after loan two. And it was for a significantly larger amount. 
Mr D had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
I think Mr Ds pattern of borrowing from loan four onwards showed that he was persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. So I think MJJAR should have realised from Mr Ds pattern of borrowing that the loans were unsustainable for Mr D. And so I think it was wrong for MYJAR 
to have provided loans four and five. 
I think that Mr D lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans four and five and I think MYJAR should put 
things right. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think MYJAR should:
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans four and five should be removed 
from Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. I require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr D compensation as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman