DRN-2808464
The complaint
Mr D complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
mishandled his claim on an agricultural vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a tractor. Mr D owned it and insured it (and other 
tractors) on a policy with NFU.
In June 2019, the tractor hit a parked car and sustained damage. Mr D made a claim to 
NFU. Its engineer inspected the tractor. NFU paid the invoice for repair of the tractor  but 
with deductions for VAT, for wear and tear of £467.50 and for an excess of £250.00.
In January 2020, Mr D complained to NFU that it should pay him the full cost of the repairs.
By a final response dated 31 March 2020, NFU turned down the complaint. Unhappy with 
that, Mr D brought his complaint to us in July 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
NFU relied on the expertise of an engineer when settling the claim and making a deduction 
for the damage to the front axle. NFU then deducted VAT and an excess of £250.00, which 
was in line with the policy terms, the investigator said.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
There was no excess wear on parts.
He has complained against the police.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That is subject to the fact that I dont have the legal power to consider Mr Ds complaint 
against the police. The Financial Ombudsman Service may only deal with a consumer 
complaint against an insurance company or other regulated financial firm about regulated 
activities. 
Where I refer to NFU, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include claims-
handlers, engineers and others insofar as I hold NFU responsible for their actions.
Like most such policies, the NFU policy excluded wear and tear and it excluded the VAT
element of any claim where the policyholder was able to recover the VAT.
NFUs engineer didnt think that all the damage to the tractor was caused by the accident 
with the parked car. Mr D disagreed. But the onus is on him to show that the disputed 
damage  to the front axle  was caused by that accident. 
Ive seen witness evidence about the previous use of the tractor. But it was an old tractor. 
And Mr D hasnt provided enough engineering evidence. So I dont find that NFU treated him 
unfairly by declining to pay for the repair of the axle.
NFU have said Mr D is registered for VAT. Mr D hasnt said otherwise. I find it more likely 
than not that he will be able to recover the VAT element of his claim if he hasnt done so 
already. So I dont find that NFU treated Mr D unfairly by declining to pay the VAT.
From NFUs screenshots, Im satisfied that Mr D had to pay the first £250.00 of each claim 
as a policy excess. So I dont find that NFU treated Mr D unfairly by deducting the policy 
excess of £250.00.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct NFU to pay Mr D any more in response to 
his claim or his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman