DRN-2088552
The complaint
Mr C complains that the car provided to him by Close Brothers Limited under a conditional 
sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality.
.
What happened
Mr C acquired a car on 28 February 2019 with the benefit of a Conditional Sale Agreement
with Close Brothers. At the point of purchase the car was approximately12 years old and had
done just over 63,200 miles.
Shortly after purchase,the car developed a number of minor faults, including the brake fluid
level, and problems with the electric windows, warning lights and fuel filter. These were all
repaired by the selling garage.
In May Mr C noticed the oil warning light was coming on when he went round corners. He
reported this to the selling garage, checked the oil level and, finding it very low, topped it up.
On 13 May, the car went into the garage where the oil level was checked and adjusted and
the oil and air filters were replaced. It didnt tell Mr C about any other problems.
However, a few weeks later the engine seized. On 25 June Mr C contacted Close Brothers
about the various problems he'd had with the car. He said hed had to take it back to the
garage for repairs four times in three months even though hed only done 2,400 miles since
he'd had it. The engine had now seized so it was undriveable and the cambelt had split. He
said hed asked the garage about replacing the cambelt but was told this wasnt necessary
as the car had done less than 70,000 miles. He asked for a replacement vehicle as he didnt
consider this car was of satisfactory quality.
Close Brothers arranged for an independent inspection. This report, dated 4 July 2019,
concluded that: there are excessive oil leaks around the engine with oil and oil staining
around the whole engine block. This could be possible head gasket or rocker cover. The oil
leakage was too extensive to pin point the exact source of the leaks.
An attempt to turn the engine by hand, found that the engine is completely locked up which
does not allow us to set the engine to top dead centre to check if the timing has jumped as
suggested. The vehicle will require further stripping and investigation to confirm the exact
cause of the issues found. Although we do consider the engine has most likely seized due to
previous depleted oil condition due to the excessive oil leaks found. It concluded that On the 
balance of probability, we do consider the oil leaks would have been developing at the point 
of sale.
However it went on to say that the operator was responsible for maintaining the oil at the
required level and checking it regularly and that, if the engine damage was found to be
caused by the depleted oil levels, then Mr C would be responsible for not maintaining the oil
at the correct level to prevent the damage. It noted that the cambelt was slightly loose but
not enough to cause it to jump so as to cause the problem with the engine. Close Brothers 
said on the basis of this report, it didnt consider it was responsible for cost of the repairs, 
which Mr C estimated to be in the region of £2,000. 
Our investigator came to a different view. She said Mr C had taken the car back to the 
garage several times for various repairs including in May for problems with the oil warning 
light and oil level. The garage had replaced the oil filter on 13 May but hadnt identified any 
other faults at that time. This was despite the report stating that the car had longstanding oil 
leaks in the engine area which would have led to ongoing oil loss - and that those oil leaks 
were most likely present at the point of sale. 
Even though this was an older car, Mr C was entitled to expect it would be of satisfactory 
quality taking into account its age, mileage and price. In this case the oil leaks were serious 
and as the report had said, had in all probability caused the engine to seize. The garage had 
the opportunity to repair this but hadnt done so.
She didnt agree Mr C was responsible for what had happened. She could see hed been
prompt to identify any faults as they happened and to take the car back for repair. In this
case hed reported problems with the oil level and warning light twice in May and she felt that
was reasonable and that the underlying problems should have been picked up by the garage
and repaired. Overall, she didnt consider the car had been of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. For that reason, she felt it fair that Close Brothers pay for the cost of taking the car 
in to identify the fault and for then repairing it.
My provisional findings
On 14 July 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I set out my provisional findings. In 
summary I said:
Mr C acquired this car with the benefit of a Conditional Sale Agreement. Such agreements
are governed by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 that says that the provider of the finance, in
this case Close Brothers, has a shared responsibility to ensure that the goods supplied are
of satisfactory quality. That is what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory
which in the case of a car takes into account its age, mileage and price.
In this case the car provided to Mr C was 12 years old and had done just over 63,000 miles.
It's not unreasonable to expect a car of that age and mileage to have some faults so the key
issue in this case is whether the faults in this case meant the car wasnt of the quality
required.
The car had had some minor faults early on but these werent related to the later problems 
with the engine. In May however Mr C noticed a problem with the oil light coming on. He 
checked the oil level, found it to be almost empty and topped it up. A few days he took the 
car into the garage where the oil levels were checked and adjusted and the oil and air filters 
were replaced. Unfortunately, the car went wrong a few weeks later when the engine seized 
and its been off the road since then.
I noted the findings of the independent report and on many points, I considered the findings 
to be persuasive. The report found evidence of longstanding oil leaks in the engine 
compartment which it believed had caused excessive oil loss that ultimately caused the 
engine to seize. I felt that fitted with the history of the oil warning light and low oil level 
provided by Mr C. 
However, the report went on to say it considered Mr C was responsible for maintaining the 
oil levels at the level required and that the failure to do so had caused the engine to seize. I 
disagreed with that because:Mr C had always been prompt to report any fault and get it repaired. It followed from 
that, that if hed been aware of a problem with the oil levels before May then hed 
have reported that as well and had it dealt with at that time. On balance I felt hed 
reported the problem as soon as he was aware of it.
When he did notice the oil warning light in May, he told the garage, checked the
oil and finding it almost empty, topped it up. A few days later he took the car for a 
more detailed check. That seemed very reasonable to me and what Id expect any
responsible driver to have done.
At this visit the garage checked and adjusted the levels as well as replacing the oil 
and air filters but there wasnt nothing to show it had warned Mr C about the oil leaks 
in the engine or suggested any further repairs. At that point I considered Mr C was 
entitled to believe the car was mended and fit to drive.
Mr C had said he wasnt aware the car was still losing oil. I felt that was probable as 
hed always been very quick to report any faults previously so there was no reason 
why hed have behaved differently in this situation. And although the report said it 
was for the owner to monitor the oil levels, it acknowledged that the frequency of 
doing so depended on the cars use and mileage. In this case the car had only done 
2,400 miles since February so it wouldnt in general have required frequent topping 
up.  
In the circumstances I didnt consider Mr C was responsible for whats happened to 
the engine. It seemed, as the report has said, that this was the result of the previous 
low oil levels caused by the longstanding oil leaks, all of which should have been 
seen either when the car was serviced before sale, during the MOT inspection or 
when Mr C took the car into the garage for repairs.
My provisional view was that the oil leaks were in all probability present at the point of sale 
and the fact they werent identified or properly repaired means the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. For that reason, I proposed to recommend that Close Brothers should arrange to 
collect the car and to have the engine stripped, diagnosed and repaired at no cost to Mr C.
In addition, Mr C hadnt been able to drive this car since June 2019 through no fault of his 
own so I felt it fair that Close Brothers refund his monthly payments from August 2019, that 
is the month after the independent report was made known, up until the date the car was 
repaired and returned to Mr C. Interest at 8% simple should be added to the refunds from 
the date of payment by Mr C to the date of refund by Close Brothers. 
In response to the provisional decision Mr C has said he wasnt able to take the car off the 
road before October 2019 and until then he had to continue to pay the Road Fund Tax (RFT) 
and insurance. Hed like these costs to be taken into account in any award.
Close Brothers hasnt provided any comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information available, including the additional information sent in by Mr 
C, I havent seen any new information to change my view that the most probable reason why 
the engine seized in this case was because of the longstanding and excessive oil leaks in the engine compartment. These were identified in the independent inspection of 4 July 2019, 
which also agreed they would have been present at the time Mr C acquired the car.  In the 
circumstances I dont consider that the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Mr C. 
Ive also seen that Mr C had taken the car back several times and the garage had the 
opportunity to identify and repair the oil leaks but failed to do so. For that reason, I dont think 
it reasonable to hold Mr C responsible for the problems that happened later with the engine 
as a result of the oil loss.
Putting things right
In the circumstances Ive decided that Close Brothers should arrange to collect the car and 
to have the engine stripped, diagnosed and repaired at no cost to Mr C. 
Further Mr C hasnt been able to drive this car since mid 2019alhough he has continued to 
make his monthly payments. For that reason I consider its fair for Close Brothers to now 
refund Mr Cs monthly payments from August 2019, that is the month after the independent 
report was made known, up until the date the car is repaired and returned to Mr C. Interest 
at 8% simple should be added to the refunds from the date of payment by Mr C to the date 
of refund by Close Brothers.
Ive taken into account what Mr C has said about the RFT and insurance but Ive decided not 
to award these as well. Mr C has said the car was undriveable since the engine seized in 
June 2019 and on that basis, it seems adjustments to the RFT and insurance could have 
been done at this point. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask Close 
Brothers to pay these additional costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct 
Close Brothers Limited to:
a) arrange to collect the car from its current location and to take it to a garage to identify the
cause of the engine fault and then to have that fault repaired at no cost to Mr C;
b) to refund Mr C's monthly payments under the Conditional Sale Agreement from the
August 2019 up until the car is repaired and returned to Mr C together with interest at 8% 
simple from the date of the payment to the date of the refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman