DRN-3612728
The complaint
Mr G complains about the sale of his income protection policy by Albany Park Limited.
What happened
Mr G held income protection cover with an insurer (Ill call this Policy A). As the premiums 
were increasing each year, Albany Park arranged a new income protection policy with a 
different insurer (Ill call this Policy B). This policy started in June 2021.
The aim of Policy B was to provide a monthly income of £1,500 in the event Mr G couldnt 
work due to illness or injury. The policy was arranged with a deferred period of one month, 
and had a monthly premium of £106.79.
Later that year, Mr G made a claim to the insurer of Policy B. During the insurers 
assessment of the claim, it concluded that Mr G (or Albany Park on his behalf) had 
misrepresented information about his health when taking out the policy. The insurer said if it 
had known the information, it wouldnt have offered Mr G the policy. The insurer therefore 
avoided the policy from the start and returned the premiums Mr G had paid. 
Mr G complained to Albany Park about the sale of the policy. He said Albany Park had 
known the information about his health and had failed to declare it on his application form. 
Albany Park accepted that it had been at fault. It offered Mr G compensation of £3,000. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Albany Park ought to 
pay £2,625 to compensate Mr G for his loss (plus interest), plus £350 compensation. 
Albany Park accepted our investigators recommendations, but Mr G did not. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Albany Park was at fault. Ive therefore only considered how Albany 
Park should put matters right. 
As our investigator has explained, when a financial business makes an error, the aim of this 
service is to place the consumer back in the position they would have been (as far as 
possible), if it hadnt been for the error.
If Albany Park hadnt mis-sold the policy, I think Mr G would have either remained insured 
with Policy A, or he would have taken out alternative cover with another insurer.
Mr G was signed off work from 18 October 2021 to 10 January 2022. Taking into account the 
one month deferred period, that meant his claim would have become payable from 18 
November 2021. Albany Park calculated a figure of £2,625 to reflect the amount Mr G would 
have been paid by the insurer (if the claim had been accepted) between 18 November 2021 
and 10 January 2022. I agree this figure was fair. Though I would also point out that the 
insurer hadnt actually accepted that Mr Gs claim met the policy definition of incapacity, and 
so Mr Gs loss in this respect isnt definite. 
Mr G says he wasnt able to work after January 2022, but because hes self-employed he 
didnt get signed off work by his GP. I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be 
appropriate to require Albany Park to compensate Mr G for time off work if he cant show 
that he was medically incapacitated. 
Albany Park also noted that Mr G had waiver of premium cover under Policy B. It calculated 
that Mr G wouldnt have paid premiums for three months if a successful claim had been 
made under Policy B. Based on a monthly premium of £106.79, Albany Park therefore 
added a further £320.37 to the compensation offer (totalling £2,945.37). Albany Park 
rounded this up to £3,000. 
I dont think Albany Park needed to compensate Mr G for waiver of premiums. Thats 
because the insurer returned all his premiums to him (which I understand was around six 
months of premiums), and therefore he didnt suffer a loss in this respect. 
Albany Park would have been entitled to deduct the remaining premiums that were returned 
to Mr G by the insurer from the compensation figure of £2,625. I say that because if Mr G 
had still had cover, he would have needed to pay premiums. However, Ive taken this into 
account under additional compensation, which Ive addressed below. 
Mr G is understandably unhappy that he will need to disclose to future insurers that he has 
had an insurance policy cancelled, and is concerned that this may impact the future cost of 
premiums. However, Albany Park has confirmed that it will provide Mr G with a letter 
explaining that it was at fault for the cancellation. This is what I would expect Albany Park to 
do in circumstances such as this. 
Mr G thinks the impact of Albany Parks error will be long-term, and he wants it to 
compensate him for any future time off work due to illness. However, as our investigator has 
pointed out, Mr G can still apply to take out a new income protection policy. Although the 
insurer of Policy B said that it would not have offered him cover if it had known of his medical 
conditions, I see that he was able to take out Policy A in January 2019, and he had some of 
those conditions at the time. I havent seen evidence to show that no other insurer would 
offer Mr G income protection cover. I see that Albany Park has offered to find alternative 
cover for Mr G if he wishes.
Having said that, I appreciate that the condition which led to Mr G stopping work in October 
2021 would likely be excluded if he were able to arrange a new policy. Though we dont 
know that Mr G will ever stop work again in the future because of this condition, so there isnt 
any calculable loss in this respect. In the circumstances, I think it would be appropriate for 
Albany Park to pay compensation to recognise the inconvenience Mr G has been caused by 
the matter. Taking into account that Mr G received a refund of six months of premiums from 
the insurer, Im satisfied that £350 compensation in addition to this would be reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Albany Park Limited to do the 
following:- Pay £2,625. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date this would have been paid by the insurer to the date of settlement.
- Pay £350 compensation.
- Give Mr G a letter confirming that Albany Park was responsible for the cancellation of 
the policy.
If Albany Park considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman