DRN-4019905
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M hold ReAssure Limited responsible for their investment losing around £3,500 
in value, which they attribute to failure in governance on ReAssures part.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs M want ReAssure to refund the missing £3,500 and explain 
how this happened without customers being informed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were invested in a with-profits fund which was subject to a market value 
reduction (MVR) or a market value adjustment (MVA) depending on circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M routinely monitored their investment performance and when they saw the 
value of their investment drop by around £3,500 sometime between 1 and 13 October 2022, 
they closed the policy as they did not wish to lose any more money. ReAssure paid £61,599 
to Mr and Mrs M on 17 October 2022 in respect of the policys value. 
When Mr and Mrs M complained to ReAssure about the loss on their policy, ReAssure didnt 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In brief summary, it said:
ReAssures involvement was limited to doing the paperwork for its policyholders and 
investments were managed by external fund managers, independent of ReAssure
due to the type of investment Mr and Mrs M held, ReAssure wasnt able to provide a 
breakdown of the values with the details they had asked for 
an MVR was in effect when Mr and Mrs M made their withdrawal which was reflected 
in the drop in value they saw in their policy. 
Mr and Mrs M asked us to investigate and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened.   
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She felt that ReAssure had acted 
within the terms of the policy and followed the process for applying the MVR as per the 
policy terms and conditions that applied to Mr and Mrs Ms investment. So she didnt 
recommend that ReAssure needed to take any further action.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman review, mainly 
saying that the MVR issue didnt really address their complaint and huge amounts of 
monetary value had been wiped from peoples accounts, leaving them with no recourse. 
The complaint comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs M  I can completely understand why they feel so upset. This 
investment represents their life savings and involves a significant amount of money. But after 
carrying out an independent review, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill 
explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs M and ReAssure and reach a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. My focus is on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. This means I wont necessarily mention 
everything that Mr and Mrs M have brought to my attention, particularly where theres 
nothing I can usefully add to what the investigator has said already. And Ive expressed 
some of Mr and Mrs Ms concerns in my own words. But I will comment on everything that 
makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
Mr and Mrs M appreciate that their investment was impacted by volatility in financial markets 
due to political and economic circumstances at the time that were beyond ReAssures 
control. The crux of their complaint seems to me to be their feeling that ReAssure should 
have managed things better, so Ive considered carefully how ReAssure carried out its 
responsibilities towards Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M opened the policy in 2011 after taking advice elsewhere. ReAssure didnt 
recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs M so it wasnt up to ReAssure to check that the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs and circumstances. 
Once Mr and Mrs M had invested in the policy, investment decisions were the responsibility 
of the fund managers, who were independent of ReAssure. So ReAssures role here was 
limited to administering the policy paperwork.
I dont consider that there was any onus on ReAssure to monitor fund values or alert 
Mr and Mrs M when their investment was dropping in value and ReAssure wasnt 
responsible for advising Mr and Mrs M about their investment. Mr and Mrs M were able to 
check the value of their investment themselves whenever they wanted to. 
The fund they were invested in was a unitised with profits fund - Mr and Mrs M bought units 
in selected funds. So Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have seen the actual value of the underlying 
assets, which likely changed daily.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ms expectation was that fund values overall would grow by a 
steady rate (the regular bonus rate) which was calculated annually. Unfortunately, turbulent 
financial market conditions in October 2022 adversely affected the value of Mr and Mrs Ms 
investment. In this situation, Mr and Mrs Ms policy allowed for an MVR to be applied. This is 
a mechanism to protect the whole fund from being depleted as a result of investors exiting 
after a market fall. The terms and conditions of the policy Mr and Mrs M were invested in 
meant that when they withdrew from the fund early, at a time when the market value of the 
fund had dropped, their pay-out could be reduced by an MVR  which is what happened in 
Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Mr and Mrs M have told us that ReAssure phoned to discuss the implications of making a 
withdrawal before they decided to go ahead. And after Mr and Mrs M decided to surrender 
the policy, ReAssure provided them with a breakdown that showed how the surrender value 
of their investment on 14 October 2022 was made up, including fund value at that date, an 
interim bonus payment and the MVR that was applied. I find that ReAssure did everything 
I would expect it to have done in this situation. In order to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint I would have to find that ReAssure did 
something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably  and, for the reasons I have explained, 
I havent seen enough here to do so. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M but I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman