DRN-2922036
The complaint
Mr F complains about a fee First Central Insurance Management Limited charged  and later 
refunded  when there was a problem with a scheduled car insurance payment.
What happened
It looks like the facts of this case are agreed. First Central and Mr F had an agreement that 
said he would pay for his car insurance in monthly instalments. These were taken by First 
Central on the 25th of each month. 
At some point after the August 2020 payment was taken, Mr F reported hed lost his debit 
card. That meant First Central couldnt take the car insurance payment for September. That 
in turn led them to add a £30 fee, which Mr F had to pay before he could make the 
September payment. 
Mr F complained a few days later, and First Central decided to refund the fee. But he didnt 
feel that resolved his complaint. He felt First Central needed to change the way they applied 
the fees in future. 
The matter came to us. Our investigator considered both sides of the complaint, and felt First 
Central had treated Mr F reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of their 
agreement with Mr F. He said they didnt need to do anything else to resolve the complaint.
Mr F didnt agree. He felt what First Central had done was against the law, and needed to 
change. Unresolved, the matters come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find nothing further is needed to resolve this complaint. I appreciate Mr F 
isnt likely to agree, but I find First Central have done enough here to treat him fairly and 
reasonably. 
From whats been said, its not First Centrals fault that the payment failed when they tried to 
take it. I cant see Mr F told them his card details had changed. Nor can I see they had any 
way of knowing the card wasnt going to work until after theyd tried to use it. 
The failed attempt to take the money has then  rightly  triggered First Centrals failed 
payment process. That includes the charging of a fee. 
There arent any rules that say First Central cant charge that sort of fee  its a choice for 
them to make as a business. For a reasonable level of service, they simply need to be clear 
that such fees could apply in situations like this. 
Ive seen First Centrals fees are listed on page 12 of a 77-page policy document. These 
include a £30 fee for direct debit amendments and failed payments. I find thats clear 
enough about the fee that First Direct charged when the attempt to take Mr Fs scheduled 
payment failed. 
So I dont agree Mr Fs point  that it was unlawful for First Direct to charge him the fee. The 
policy said they would, and theres no law saying they cant. 
But I can appreciate that as soon as Mr F was aware the payment had failed, he took steps 
to make sure it was paid, the same day it was due. It looks to me like First Central took this 
into account when they decided to refund the £30 fee, a few days later. 
I find its reasonable for First Central to have done that as a gesture of goodwill, without 
making any commitments to change the way they run their business. They didnt  in my 
view - have to give Mr F that refund. There had been a failed payment, and failed payments 
led to the fee. 
And even if it was an error for First Central to have charged the fee, refunding it as soon as 
Mr F raised the issue would have been enough to put the matter right. Theres no lasting 
impact here that needs me to direct further action from First Central, even if they had done 
something wrong. 
I appreciate Mr F may still be unhappy with the way First Central run their business. But the 
nature of car insurance will allow him to find a new provider when it comes time for him to 
renew his policy. Hell be able to search at that point for one that takes an approach to failed 
and late payment fees that hell be happier with. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman