DRN-2476885
The complaint
Mr B complains Arrow Global Limited are asking him to repay a debt he doesnt think they 
should be.
A number of other companies have been involved in contacting Mr B about this debt, but as 
Arrow are responsible for the complaint, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr B was contacted on 20 March 2020 by Arrow asking for repayment of a debt they said 
had been defaulted over ten years ago. He contacted them and said given the date of 
default was over ten years ago, as well as not having a record of it being defaulted, wouldnt 
it now be statute barred? He also asked them to tell him what the debt related to.
Arrow wrote to Mr B on 22 April 2020, and explained the debt was for an overdraft. Mr B said 
hed lived at the same address for many years, so couldnt understand why hed not been 
contacted about the debt. Mr B said any payments hed been making he understood were 
towards a loan, not an overdraft, that hed had with the same bank  and says hes never 
knowingly paid for a debt that was written off. 
Arrow replied to the complaint. They said the limitation period of six years is if the account 
hasnt been acknowledged  and this can be in writing or by making a payment. Arrow said 
the outstanding balance is still enforceable because the last payment was made on 
25 April 2016 for £10. Arrow added theyd written to Mr B, and sent him multiple text 
messages, between 2016 and 2020 but received no response. As a result of this, they didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr B asked us to look into things. In doing so, he said after contacting a 
number of different parties hed been told this was for an overdraft. He explained hed never 
knowingly paid towards this overdraft because as far as he was concerned the debt had 
been defaulted in August 2009 and written off in 2013 after hed complained about bank 
charges. He added hed paid £500 in settlement of the overdraft when it was written off. Mr B 
says he asked for correspondence to help him understand the timeline and whats 
happened, but he was told there wasnt anything that could be provided. Mr B said it 
concerns him that hed not been contacted for four years regarding the debt and as far as 
hes concerned the debt is now statute barred. Mr B asked us to confirm that an account he 
believed to be written off cant be resurrected after ten years without a default notice being 
issued and action taken.
One our Investigators looked into things. He explained we dont have the power to decide 
whether a debt is enforceable, this can only be done in court. But we can decide if we think 
Arrow has acted unfairly by asking Mr B to repay a debt thats very likely not going to be 
enforceable in court. Our Investigator addressed the points raised by Mr B:
The overdraft had been written off by the bank  there was no evidence to prove this 
had happened. Arrow said theyd asked the bank, who said they had no records of 
this agreement.
If a default isnt issued then they cant enforce the debt  hes not seen anything to 
suggest not issuing a default has an impact on the enforceability of the debt.
Due to lack of contact, wouldnt the debt now be statute barred  our Investigator 
explained the debt is likely enforceable if its been acknowledged within the last six 
years, and hed seen Mr Bs payment towards the debt in April 2016.
Overall  he felt there was no indication the debt wasnt enforceable, so he didnt 
think Arrow were acting unfairly in asking Mr B to repay the debt.
Mr B replied and didnt accept this outcome. He asked a number of questions, which Ive 
summarised below:
Where is the evidence the default notice was sent
If the bank didnt write off the debt, why didnt they enforce it in over ten years
What evidence is there the debt has been transferred over legally
Where is the evidence to say hes acknowledged this debt  as opposed to believing 
it may have mistakenly related to something else
How can a debt be enforced if theres no original evidence the debt still exists
If this was a legally enforceable debt, why hasnt it been enforced in over 11 years
And Mr B summed up his concerns by saying it appears our Investigator said because he 
couldnt disprove the above points, Arrow dont have to, and hes required to pay the debt.
Our Investigator replied, and said:
We cant consider whether the debt is enforceable or not, only whether its clearly not 
enforceable and Arrow have continued to ask for payment in such circumstances.
Hed seen the Notice of Assignment (NoA) from when Arrow bought the debt  and 
this shows the account purchased was an overdraft and included those account 
details. So, he felt Mr B did know what debt had been bought and had knowingly 
made a payment to that debt. Because of this, he felt the debt had been 
acknowledged.
And his understanding is that generally Arrow need to hold Mr Bs repayment history 
and copy of the original lending agreement  but not all overdrafts require a lending 
agreement.
Due to this, overall our Investigator didnt feel Arrow were asking Mr B to repay a debt that 
would clearly be unenforceable in court.Mr B didnt accept this. He asked for the paperwork we held, and that was processed as a 
Subject Access Request (SAR). Mr B added he didnt think it was reasonable for him to be 
expected to remember every detail, which is why paperwork should be provided. And, 
regardless of the confusion caused by the time lapse, hes satisfied the bank he held his 
overdraft with did write it off  because if they didnt why would they have taken so long to 
assign it. He said he didnt receive any of the documents Arrow say they sent him, including 
the NoA, how can it not matter theres no default notice, and due to this he thinks his view 
that the overdraft was written off is correct.
After receiving the SAR, Mr B wanted it noted that, as theres no default notice, the debt 
could also have been statute barred in 2013 which might explain why its not been enforced.
Because Mr B didnt accept the outcome our Investigator reached, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain, like our Investigator did, that I cant decide whether the 
agreement is enforceable as Mr B has asked us to do  that is something only a court can 
decide. I can consider whether I think Arrow have acted fairly in asking Mr B to repay the 
debt, taking account of whether the debt would clearly be unenforceable if this matter went 
to court. So, Ive noted Mr Bs point about the debt potentially being out of time in 2013 
which might be why the debt wasnt enforced, but it isnt something Ill comment further on.
Mr B has raised several issues, so Ive addressed them under separate headings.
Was the debt written off  and other actions Mr B says his bank should or shouldnt have 
done
Mr B has said, from the beginning of him knowing this debt was for an overdraft, that he 
understood it to have been written off  and explained hed paid £500 towards it which he 
believed was the final settlement.
But here Im considering the actions of Arrow in asking him to repay the debt. So, upon 
being told about this, Id have expected Arrow to contact Mr Bs bank, and ask for 
confirmation of whether the debt was written off or not. Having bought the debt in good faith 
then beyond that, theres very little I think Arrow would be able to do  if the debt was written 
off by Mr Bs bank but later sold to Arrow, then this would be a mistake by them, not Arrow. 
And, itd need to be Mr Bs bank who tells Arrow this, so they know to no longer ask for the 
debt to be repaid.
Arrow have said Mr Bs bank replied to Arrow and said they had no evidence of writing the 
debt off. Weve asked them for evidence of this reply from Mr Bs bank to them, but theyve 
said it was over six years ago so they dont have any records. This isnt surprising to me, or 
unusual as financial businesses arent always required to keep records over six years. Mr B 
also unfortunately doesnt have evidence of the debt being written off. So, I need to decide 
what I think is most likely, based on the information I do have. Arrow have been able to 
provide Mr Bs account statements. The account was seemingly defaulted in August 2009 
with a balance of around £5,500. Going back over them, I cant see any payments of £500 
being made in the months prior to the account seemingly defaulting  something Arrow have 
said they also told Mr B in November 2013. Under the circumstances, I cant say Arrow are 
acting unreasonably in asking Mr B to repay the debt  as theres no evidence to back up 
what hes said about it being written off.Mr B has also raised a number of questions about why the debt hasnt been enforced in 
such a long time. Its important to say that enforcing the debt, and asking for repayments to 
it, are two different things. Enforcement of the debt would be an action that the legal owner 
of the debt would usually take in court. But, as Ive explained above, this complaint is against 
Arrow for asking for repayment of the debt, so I cant say why Mr Bs bank may or may not 
have carried out certain actions.
The assignment of the debt  and has it been acknowledged
Mr B has said hes not convinced the debt was taken over properly by Arrow, so asks how 
he can be expected to pay for it when hes not been told about this.
Arrow say they sent the NoA to Mr B, and have provided a copy of it to us. The NoA is dated 
19 July 2013, and is correctly addressed to Mr B. I appreciate Mr B says he didnt receive 
this, which is possible. But as Mr B has said its not necessarily reasonable to expect him to 
remember every detail several years on. Memories can and do fade over time, so its also 
possible Mr B did receive this, and simply doesnt remember now.
So, on this point I think its more likely than not Arrow did send the NoA correctly to Mr B  
which means Im satisfied theyve fulfilled their obligations to notify Mr B about the transfer of 
the debt to them. And, as it was addressed correctly, it seems more likely than not he did 
receive it.
In relation to whether the debt has been acknowledged within the last six years I think it has. 
Arrow have said theyve written to Mr B on many occasions and sent a lot of texts as well. 
Mr B says he didnt receive any of these contacts, but as Arrow have Mr Bs correct address, 
it seems more likely than not to me he probably did receive at least one of these contacts 
since the debt was taken over by Arrow in July 2013.
But, even if I accepted Mr B didnt get any of these letters or texts, then I still think the debt 
has been acknowledged. I say this because after Arrow took over the account, payments 
were made to it from February 2014 until 25 April 2016. Mr B has said these payments were 
made in error, as he understood the payments to be made regarding a loan. 
The NoA, which as Ive said I think Mr B more likely than not did receive, says the debt is for 
an overdraft and includes the account details. So, on balance I think this would have been 
enough for Mr B to know that he was paying off his debt for the overdraft. In addition, if 
someone had paid money for several years to a debt they believed had been written off, Id 
have expected them to get in touch with Arrow and ask for the money to be repaid shortly 
after realising they might have been paying for something in error. Mr B has said he realised 
he was paying in error for this debt in April 2016. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr B 
did ask for the money back or contact Arrow about it.
So, taking everything into account, I do think Arrow properly notified Mr B about taking over 
the debt, and Mr B acknowledged the overdraft debt by knowingly making payments to it for 
just over two years.
Does the lack of evidence of a default make the debt clearly unenforceable
Mr B has made this argument, but I cant agree.
During the course of this complaint Mr B was told his account defaulted in August 2009 and 
hes not disputed this. Given the time thats passed any default would have been removed 
from his credit file, and his bank wouldnt be expected to still have any paperwork.So, I dont think the lack of evidence now of the default means it was never applied. Ive 
seen Mr Bs statements, and these show from January 2009 onwards he was over his 
agreed overdraft limit. In August 2009, when Mr B says his account was defaulted, it looks 
like it was transferred to the banks recoveries department.
Given the timespan of when Mr B wasnt within his agreed overdraft limit, and the transfer to 
the banks recoveries department, it seems likely the account was defaulted.
So, I dont think the absence of evidence of the default means Arrow cant ask Mr B to repay 
the debt. And, as Ive mentioned above, there is evidence of the original debt in the form of 
bank statements.
Summary
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Arrow are acting fairly in asking Mr B to repay 
the debt. Im not clear on Mr Bs current financial situation, but Id encourage him to engage 
with Arrow to try and reach an agreement for how to repay this debt. Id also remind Arrow 
theyre obliged to treat Mr B positively and sympathetically if hes in financial difficulties 
currently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman