DRN-3364080
The complaint
B Esq. complains TSB Bank plc didnt address them as Esquire (Esq.) instead of Mr. 
What happened
In 2016, B Esq. opened a TSB account which was set up using the title Mr. 
In 2021, B Esq. asked TSB to change how it addressed them, as they wanted TSB to 
remove the title Mr and add the title Esquire instead. TSB added Esquire to the account, 
but B Esq. was unhappy that TSB usually still included Mr when it addressed them. 
TSB said it had added Esquire to the account as asked, but that it couldnt remove the 
prefix Mr as its system wouldnt allow this. TSB said it had passed this issue to its relevant 
teams but couldnt guarantee its system would be changed. 
B Esq. thought it was wrong for TSBs system to dictate how they were addressed, so they 
came to our Service. B Esq. said theyd suffered a life changing injury in a serious accident, 
and TSB was denying them the right to be addressed as they wanted as part of rebuilding 
their life. B Esq. wanted TSB to let its customers choose whether they were addressed by a 
title before or after their name. 
Our Investigator said TSB could decide how its systems worked, unless the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), told it to change them. She said TSB couldnt leave the 
prefix title blank as this was simply how its system worked. And she thought it wasnt 
reasonable to expect TSB to manually amend all communication with B Esq., since most of 
it was sent automatically. Our Investigator said TSB had added Esquire as requested, and 
had manually amended the letters it could. She thought TSB had treated B Esq. reasonably 
and hadnt made an error, and noted B Esq. was closing their TSB account.
B Esq. disagreed, saying this was a simple request and they shouldnt have to accept TSB 
addressing them in a way they were uncomfortable with. As B Esq. disagreed, this 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear that its not my role here to tell TSB how its system should work for all its 
customers. That is for either TSB or the FCA to decide. Instead, my role is to consider 
whether TSB has treated B Esq. fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint.
I appreciate B Esq. feels very strongly that TSB should address them as they want, and this 
includes not having Mr included before their name. Ive not seen that B Esq. wants TSB to 
use a different prefix instead of Mr. The issue is that B Esq. would like TSB to not use any 
prefix title at all in their case. However, TSB has explained that its system currently just 
doesnt allow the prefix title to be blank and has provided a screenshot of its system to 
support this. So while I acknowledge that TSB isnt addressing B Esq. exactly as they would 
like, Im satisfied TSB hasnt made an error here. 
Im also satisfied TSB has done what it can to accommodate B Esq.s preferences as far as 
its system will allow it to. TSB has added the Esquire suffix to the account as asked. And 
based on TSBs final response to this complaint, it has amended the correspondence it has 
manually written to B Esq. by deleting Mr and adding Esquire. 
But Im satisfied its not reasonable to expect TSB to manually amend everything it sends to 
B Esq. Thats because TSB has explained that most of its correspondence is automated and 
doesnt involve a member of staff, and the automated correspondence uses the information 
recorded on B Esq.s account. So asking TSB to manually amend all its correspondence with 
B Esq. is likely to involve an unreasonable amount of administration, and I understand 
B Esq. has now closed their TSB account in any case.
I realise this isnt the answer B Esq. hoped for, but Im satisfied TSB hasnt made an error 
here or treated B Esq. unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B Esq. to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman