DRN-3732761
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost, which she believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
At the beginning of 2022, Mrs N was looking to have some building work completed and 
decided to use a tradesman who had completed work for her previously. She contacted the 
tradesman and arranged for him to complete the work. On 2 February 2022, Mrs N made an 
upfront payment for the work of £4,231.24. However, the tradesman didnt arrive, and the 
work was never completed. Mrs N has said she was then blocked from being able to contact 
them again. 
Mrs N believed she had been the victim of a scam, so she raised the matter with Lloyds. 
Lloyds considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, 
of which it is a signatory, and it sent its final response to Mrs N, but it didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary, it said while it was sympathetic to the situation Mrs N found herself 
in, it considered this was a civil dispute between Mrs N and the builder, so this wasnt 
covered by the CRM code. It said some works had been carried out previously which wasnt 
indicative of a scam and the CRM code specifically excluded circumstances like Mrs Ns.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs N brought her complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ns complaint, as he also 
considered this was a civil dispute.
Mrs N didnt agree with our investigators view, she maintained that shed been the victim of 
a scam. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to uphold Mrs Ns 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Lloyds should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs N, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her and why she feels she was the victim 
of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact 
fraudulent and/or a scam. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Lloyds has signed up to and was in 
force at the time Mrs N made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all 
push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Mrs N made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Mrs N strongly disagrees. She feels 
the builder has scammed her.
In order to conclude that the payment Mrs N made was part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that the builder she was using was not 
legitimate and he had set out to defraud her. But I dont think, based on what I know, that I 
can safely conclude that. 
I have not seen sufficient evidence to establish that the builder set out with the intent to 
defraud Mrs N. Mrs N has confirmed the builder had carried out a lot of other work in her 
house previously and to a good standard. Shes said she had a good working relationship 
with them. Im also mindful that reviews online for the builder are, in the most part, positive 
and it seems they are still available to provide a service.
I understand that Mrs N has raised the matter with the online trade directory that carry some 
of the reviews for the builder and has also made the police aware. But Im not aware of any 
criminal investigation into the builder by the Police, or any other authority, which would lead 
me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud.
Ive also considered that the receiving bank, where Mrs Ns money was sent, have said there 
had not been any other reports of fraud at the time Mrs N bought this complaint to Lloyds. 
On balance, I cant safely say this situation meets the high legal threshold and burden of 
proof for fraud. Given this and that the situation doesnt display the hallmarks most typically 
associated with this type of scam, I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to take the view that 
the situation formed part of a civil dispute.
All things considered, on balance, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Mrs N has lost, as I dont think Lloyds 
treated Mrs N unfairly when it said the payment she made was not covered by the CRM 
Code. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs N. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Mrs N has lost. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman