DRN-3277217
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lendable Ltd lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr N was given two loans by Lendable. He first borrowed £1,000 in January 2020 that he 
agreed to repay in 12 monthly instalments. Mr N repaid that loan earlier than planned, in 
June 2020. The following month, Mr N took a new loan. He again borrowed £1,000 that he 
agreed to repay in 12 monthly instalments. And, as before, Mr N repaid that loan earlier than 
planned, in February 2021.
Mr Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Lendable 
had been wrong to give either loan to Mr N. So he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr N didnt agree with that assessment. He said that if Lendable had looked at his bank 
statements it would have seen that he was suffering from a gambling addiction and that he 
was spending most of his normal income on gambling transactions. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Lendable gave these loans to Mr N required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr N. In practice 
this meant that Lendable had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr N 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Lendable did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr N.
Lendable gathered some information from Mr N before it agreed each loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and it used a third-party checking service to validate that payments of 
that size were being received into his bank account. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr N was entering into a significant commitment with Lendable at the time of the first loan. 
He would need to make monthly repayments for a period of a year. So I would expect that 
Lendable would have wanted to gather at least some information about Mr Ns normal living 
costs before it agreed to lend to him. I dont think it was enough to simply look at Mr Ns 
income, and his credit commitments. I think it would have been proportionate for Lendable to 
ask Mr N for details of his normal expenditure before agreeing the loan. And I think that the 
same applies to the second loan  Lendable should have again asked Mr N to declare his 
living costs so it could calculate whether he would have sufficient disposable income to 
afford the loan repayments. 
But although I dont think the checks Lendable did before agreeing either loan were 
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Ns complaint should succeed. Id also need to 
be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown Lendable 
that Mr N couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive thought about what better 
checks would have shown Lendable.
The credit checks results that Lendable received didnt suggest that Mr N was facing any 
current problems managing his money. It appears that he had faced some problems in the 
past  the credit check showed he had defaulted on accounts in 2015 and 2017. But Mr N 
had repaid both those outstanding balances before he asked for this loan. And more recently 
he had maintained any repayments in line with the credit agreements. 
At the time he asked for the first loan Mr Ns only outstanding credit was a small balance on 
a credit card. And his repayment history showed his credit card balance fluctuating from 
month to month suggesting that he wasnt using the card as a form of longer-term borrowing. 
By the time of the second loan there had been a small change in the credit check. Mr N had 
taken another loan out just a few weeks after hed borrowed from Lendable in January 2020. 
I think that might have raised some concerns. But hed maintained his repayments well on 
that loan, and his outstanding credit card balance had fallen. On balance I dont think there 
was anything in the results of either credit check that should have suggested Lendable 
needed to do more in depth checks.So I think it would have been proportionate here for Lendable to have completed its checks 
by simply asking Mr N to self-declare his normal expenditure. I dont think it would have been 
necessary for Lendable to ask Mr N for bank statements, or other forms of evidence, to 
corroborate what hed have said about his expenditure.
As I said earlier, Mr N has explained that he was spending heavily on gambling transactions 
at the time. But that wasnt something he declared to Lendable when he asked for either 
loan. And Id agree with what he said about that  it would be nonsensical to say that he 
should have declared that expenditure if he wanted to be accepted for the loan. But for the 
same reasons I think it would be most unlikely that hed have declared normal expenditure to 
Lendable that would have meant he couldnt afford the monthly repayments.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr N. Although I do think Lendable 
needed to ask him for some further information about his living costs, I dont think that 
Lendable needed to independently validate what Mr N would have said. I think that Mr N 
would most likely have told the lender that his expenditure was such that he would be able to 
afford his loan repayments. So I dont think Lendable was wrong to give either loan to Mr N.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lendable Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman