DRN-3923852
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains about Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) 
and how it didnt provide clear information about the options available to protect the 
value of the estate of Mr Hs investments.
What happened
The late Mr H held a Stocks and Shares ISA with Fidelity. Mr Hs son is an executor of 
his estate and has made a complaint about the way Fidelity has provided information to 
him. He said he informed Fidelity of his fathers passing on 22 October 2021. Fidelity 
sent an acknowledgment back and at the same time, on 13 November 2021 sent a 
valuation of the investments held that, on that date, came to around £106,370.
Fidelity explained to Mr Hs son that it had a three-stage process and that he would 
need to obtain and provide a death certificate, will and then finally a grant of probate. 
After which the investments could be sold, and the proceeds paid to the estate. Mr Hs 
son said at this point he accepted that this was the case. 
Mr Hs son did all that was asked, and on 5 February 2022, Fidelity confirmed the value 
of investments to be sold would be around £97,461. The investments had gone down in 
value since the initial valuation back in November 2021. 
Mr Hs son had at this stage been told (not he says by Fidelity) that he could have sold 
the investments a lot sooner and he is not happy as he thinks Fidelity should have given 
him clearer information about this when he talked to them on the phone. He said not 
giving him clearer information has created investment losses for Mr Hs estate as he 
would have sold them sooner if he knew that he had that choice. He made a complaint 
to Fidelity about this. 
Fidelity responded and said it did provide information when it sent a letter on 13 November 
2021. It said there were details about how the estate could sell investments within a 
document that is called Guide for Executors and Administrators. It said as it had sent the 
guide it couldnt cover the investment losses.
Mr Hs son wasnt happy with Fidelitys response so referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
she had listened to call recordings and reviewed the documents, and she could hear Fidelity 
refer to its website and that he should look at information on there. She concluded that 
Fidelity had provided enough information to the estate of Mr H to decide what to do with the 
investments.  
Mr Hs son as executor and on behalf of the estate of Mr H didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman review. So, his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the estate of Mr Hs complaint, and these are my findings that explain 
why:
I have seen and looked through the documentation that has been submitted and 
referred to by both parties. I have also listened to the call recordings provided by 
Fidelity. 
Mr Hs son has been dealing with his late fathers estate and contacted Fidelity to 
notify it of his passing. He then arranged for it to have a death certificate, a copy 
of the will and then latterly a grant of probate. 
Mr Hs son said Fidelity should have told him sooner that he could have sold the 
investments. He said Fidelity should have done this during the telephone calls 
that he made to them. He said this information is time sensitive and so he 
shouldve been informed so he could make an informed decision about what to 
do. He said if he had been told about this, he wouldve sold the investments a lot 
sooner than he did.
I have listened to the call recordings between the parties and after doing so, I 
acknowledge what Mr Hs son is saying. Fidelity didnt explicitly discuss with him 
that he could sell the investments held within the ISA earlier than he did and I 
understand his point that it would have been helpful if it had done so. That said I 
dont think there was a requirement for it to discuss this on the phone. Instead, I 
think it had a responsibility to provide clear information to the estate of Mr H so 
that the executors could make an informed decision about what it should do with 
the investments. I think on balance that it did, and I will explain why. 
I have been able to hear within a phone call recording on 16 November 2021 
Fidelity suggest Mr Hs son go on its website and read information about 
bereavement and the options available. So, in hearing this, I think Fidelity did 
make clear that information was available on its website relating to bereavement 
and options available. 
Secondly, Fidelity also said it sent a guide to Mr Hs son on 13 November 2021 
through the post and within this document it provided information that he could 
sell the investments earlier if he wanted to. Mr Hs son says he did not receive 
this guide in the post. So, I need to look at what happened here as one side says 
it sent the guide but the other said they did not receive it. 
Fidelity has provided a copy of a covering letter addressed to Mr H dated 13 
November 2021. Within this letter it refers to the guide being attached. So, on 
seeing this, I think its more likely than not Fidelity sent the guide with the letter to 
Mr Hs son. He says he did not receive this. It may be that the letter and guide did 
not reach Mr Hs son and was misplaced in transit. But if this is the case, I cant 
conclude that this was a failing that Fidelity is responsible for. I do think on 
balance, that it did send the guide and looked to provide the information that the 
estate of Mr H needed to make an informed decision shortly after it was notified 
of his passing. I have read the guide that Fidelity produced and can see that within it is a section 
titled what happens to the investments while were waiting for probate?. It goes 
on to explain what options are available including that if someone is worried that 
they can sell the investments earlier and switch to cash. So, I think Fidelity did 
make clear this option within its guide and as I have already concluded it is more 
likely than not that it sent the guide shortly after being notified by Mr Hs son of 
his late fathers passing on 22 October 2021. And although Mr Hs son said he 
did not receive the guide; I havent seen enough to say that was Fidelitys fault.
On balance, I think Fidelity more likely did send a guide in the post to Mr Hs son. 
And it suggested he look on its website for further information also. I think on this 
occasion it did enough to provide information to the estate of Mr H to make an 
informed decision about the investments held.    
Fidelity has offered to pay £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience due to the 
way it has handled this complaint. As I cant direct a business to compensate an estate for 
distress and inconvenience, it is now for the estate of Mr H to decide whether to accept this.
In conclusion I dont uphold the estate of Mr Hs complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr Hs son, and I do acknowledge the 
comments that he has made, but I hope he will at least feel that his complaint has been fully 
considered and that the way I've set things out helps to explain how I've reached my 
conclusions.
My final decision
I do not uphold the estate of Mr Hs complaint about Financial Administration Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman