DRN-3570080
The complaint
Mr G complains about Covea Insurance plcs handling of a claim made under his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief 
summary here.
Mr G has car insurance underwritten by Covea. He made a claim after he was involved in an 
accident in a car park. 
Covea accepted the claim and referred Mr G to their approved repairer. Mr G made an 
appointment with them and took his car in for repairs.
Mr G says the courtesy car provided smelt very strongly of cigarette smoke. When he asked 
for a replacement, the repairer at first offered to clean the car. When Mr G said this wouldnt 
be acceptable, they took more than a day to provide another car. So, Mr G was left without a 
vehicle for a period of time.
Mr G also wasnt happy with the size of the courtesy car offered, which he says wasnt 
suitable for his needs. And he was disappointed that the repairer couldnt tell him when the 
work would be completed.
Mr G also thinks Covea were mistaken in accepting liability for the accident and covering the 
third partys costs as well as his own. He says he was reversing out of a parking space and 
collided with an on-coming vehicle which was travelling too fast in the circumstances.
He says Covea havent been clear with him about their stance on liability. And he says they 
didnt provide him with information about the total cost of the claim and the liability in good 
time, which meant he couldnt shop for alternative insurance when his policy was due for 
renewal.
Mr G complained to Covea. They recognised that hed been left without an acceptable 
courtesy car between 17 August 2021, when he took his car in for repair, and 19 August 
2021, when he got the replacement courtesy car. So, they upheld the complaint and offered 
£50 in compensation. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought the compensation Covea had offered was fair and reasonable and 
that they didnt need to do anything more for Mr G.
Mr G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy contains a provision that says Covea may decide how to settle liability on any 
third party claim. This is a standard provision in car insurance policies. Its very clear in 
Mr Gs policy. And its not inherently unfair or unreasonable. In fact, it means that costly and 
time-consuming court cases are usually avoided unless there is a genuine uncertainty about 
liability.
Covea explained clearly to Mr G when he made the claim that it was very likely they would 
accept full liability, given that he was reversing into a lane in the car park. The onus in those 
situations is on the driver reversing to ensure its safe to do so. In the absence of persuasive 
evidence to the contrary, the courts would almost inevitably find liability to lie with the 
reversing driver.
So, I cant say that there was anything unfair or unreasonable about the way Covea decided 
to settle the claim. They explained the position to Mr G at the outset. They listened to his 
version of events and took that into account. And when Mr G repeated his line to them in 
subsequent phone calls, the operator(s) made sure his views were recorded on file for the 
claims team to consider.
In one phone call to Covea in the early stages of the claim, Mr G asks how he can find out 
the total cost and liability position. Hes told that hell get a summary when the claim is 
concluded, but that he can also contact Covea at any time for an update. 
I cant see any evidence that he asked for the claim breakdown again until after his policy 
had already renewed. And at that point, Covea responded within a day to give him full details 
of the costs and liability.
I dont think theres any reason to suggest Covea did anything (or omitted to do anything) 
that might have prejudiced Mr Gs attempts to shop around for an alternative insurance 
supplier. If the claim hadnt been finalised when Mr G did that, he would simply have had to 
declare that fact. If it had, he could have obtained the full details from Covea within a day or 
so.
In terms of the hire car and the repair timetable, I can understand Mr Gs frustration. At 
times, he was given misleading information. He received different calls form Covea on the 
same day that showed the later operator had no idea about what Mr G had been told earlier. 
During those calls, Mr G also asked some questions about the claim itself and the responses 
were confusing or less than helpful. In one call, the operator seems to suggest liability would 
be split, although he clearly only referred to this in an attempt to explain what kind of hire car 
Mr G was entitled to. It seems he was attempting to say that because Mr G had some 
liability, that meant the hire car options were restricted.
So, its clear Covea made mistakes here, but I have to assess the overall impact on Mr G. 
He was without a hire car for a day. He had a hire car for one day that was not cleaned 
effectively, it seems. And he suffered the frustration of several phone calls with Covea which 
werent optimal and will inevitably have caused him a degree of frustration.
But, his claim was settled fairly and appropriately, within a reasonable time. He had a hire 
car of a type and size specified by the policy for all but one day. And his car was returned to 
him with the repairs completed within six days.I can see why Mr G isnt happy with the service provided by Covea and/or their approved 
repairer, but I think the compensation Covea offered was a fair and reasonable response to 
the degree of trouble and upset Mr G suffered over what was a reasonably short space of 
time.
Ive assumed  although its not absolutely clear from the information we have on file  that 
Covea have paid the £50 compensation to Mr G. But if not, then Ill assume that they will do 
so now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman