DRN-3393962
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) declined his claim for fire damage 
under his buildings insurance. Mr H appointed a Loss Assessor to act on his behalf but, for 
ease, Ill refer only to Mr H throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr Hs home suffered significant fire damage. He claimed under his buildings policy and HDI 
appointed a Loss Adjuster to inspect the damage. Any reference to HDIs actions includes 
those of the Loss Adjuster.
Mr H told HDI he didnt know how the fire started. But HDI noted that Mr Hs account of 
events wasnt consistent and, eventually, he confirmed that his home was damaged when a 
fire hed lit got out of control. Mr H explained that hed been burning waste in a steel drum 
outside his home when he was called into work. He said he didnt give an accurate account 
of the circumstances because he thought HDI would turn down his claim. Mr H went on to 
provide differing accounts about whether hed tried to put the fire out before he left for work. 
But the fire department confirmed that the house fire originated from the steel drum.
HDI declined Mr Hs claim stating hed breached two policy conditions:
2. Taking care of your home.
5. Fraud.
Mr H complained. He said he hadnt tried to make a false claim and he hadnt tried to benefit 
from something to which he wasnt entitled, so he didnt agree with HDIs decision to cite 
fraud. Mr H also said burning waste in a drum quite some way from his home wasnt a 
breach of condition 2. He said his family was inside the house so he wouldnt have placed 
them at risk.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the false statements amounted 
to fraud because Mr H wasn't trying to gain something to which he wasn't entitled. But our 
investigator agreed with HDI that hed failed to take care of his home.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the steel drum wasn't near his home and hed used it to burn 
waste on previous occasions without issue. Mr H also said consideration should be given to 
why he gave a false account of events, which was on the advice of family and friends.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending not to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings 
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold his 
complaint. But, as my reasons are different to those of our investigator, I think its fair to 
provide each side with a further chance to comment before I reach a final decision. Ill 
explain.
Theres no dispute that Mr H gave conflicting accounts of the cause of the fire, and I 
understand he made ill-advised decisions based on family and friends comments. So, Ive 
looked at whether it was fair for HDI to rely on the two policy conditions in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint.
2. Taking care of your home
You and your family must take all necessary steps to prevent loss, damage, accidents or 
injury to your buildings and/or contents
If you make a claim under your policy and we determine that the loss, damage, liability, 
cost or expense that led to the claim was caused or made worse by you failing to take 
necessary steps under this condition we may:
refuse to pay the claim; or
reduce the amount of any payment we make for the claim
HDI declined Mr Hs claim because burning waste next to his home and leaving it 
unattended was in breach of this policy condition. Mr H said the steel drum in which he 
burned waste wasnt near his home. But looking at the fire investigation report which 
includes a map of the surrounding area, it shows that the steel drum was in the passageway 
next to his home. And photos of the area after the fire show that the steel drum was next to 
the wood fence boundary between Mr Hs home and the passageway. 
Burning materials in a steel drum intended for that purpose is not an issue. But HDI didnt 
think Mr H had taken the necessary steps to prevent loss, damage, [or] accidents. It 
explained that Mr Hs account of events changed repeatedly during its investigation, 
eventually settling on an account which matched the fire investigation report  that the 
damage was caused by a fire in the steel drum. 
So, Ive thought about whether it was fair for HDI to decide this meant Mr H hadnt taken 
reasonable care. Initially, Mr H denied burning anything in the steel drum. After HDI 
investigated, and under his loss assessors advice, Mr H confirmed hed started the fire in 
the drum to burn kitchen replacement waste, leaves and papers. However, Mr H said hed 
poured water over the fire before leaving for work, then changed his statement to say hed 
poured water on the fence, before eventually confirming he hadnt done either of those 
things. He also said he hadnt asked his family to monitor the fire when he left for work. The 
fire incident report cited a bonfire which was out of control as the cause of the damage.
Thinking, then, about what HDI said, I can understand why it thought leaving a steel drum, 
unattended and with an unextinguished fire inside it next to his boundary fence didnt meet 
the requirement for Mr H to take reasonable care of his home.
Mr H may not have been fully aware of this specific condition, but I see there is reference in 
the early pages of the policy, headed as Helpful tips for taking care of your home:
Fire Prevention 
Ensure smoking materials are properly extinguished/disposed 
Given that Mr H falsely stated that hed extinguished the fire, I think its reasonable that HDI 
concluded he was aware that leaving an unattended fire was a risk.
Overall, then, HDI could expect Mr H to take reasonable care of his home. But its 
investigation revealed he didnt extinguish the fire hed started before leaving for work and 
Im satisfied its reasonably foreseeable that his home, which was next to the steel drum in the passageway, couldve been damaged by it. Therefore, Ive provisionally decided that HDI 
fairly declined Mr Hs claim citing breach of the condition, Taking care of your home.
Moving on, the second condition HDI relied on was:
5. Fraud 
If you or your family:
makes a claim under your policy which is in any part false or exaggerated;
supports a claim with a false document or statement;
makes a claim for any loss or damage as a result of your deliberate act or if the 
loss or damage was caused with your agreement or knowledge;
have committed fraud under any other insurance policy; or 
makes an untrue statement, fails to provide us with information we have 
requested, or knowingly provides inaccurate information about their 
circumstances in order to obtain insurance cover.
We may:
declare the policy void (treating your policy as if it had never existed) from the 
date the fraudulent act was committed;
not pay any claims which may or may not have been made on your policy;
recover any previous claims paid under your policy;
not return any premium; or
cancel your policy.
Mr H doesnt think its fair that HDI considered his conflicting accounts of events amounted 
to fraud. He said he didnt make the inaccurate statements to gain something to which he 
wasn't entitled. HDI disagreed because it thought Mr Hs inaccurate statements were exactly 
that  he hoped that HDI would settle his claim if he gave a false version of events because 
he didnt think his claim would be settled if he gave an accurate account.
Looking at the relevant case law, exaggerated or false statements are only considered fraud 
if they allow the policyholder to benefit from the policy in a way which they wouldntve done 
had they not made the false or exaggerated statements. So, to apply this test to Mr Hs 
circumstances, Id need to think about what HDI wouldve done if he had given an accurate 
account of events.
If Mr H had given a full and accurate account of events from the start, hed have told HDI 
that he left the fire burning in the steel drum in the passageway next to his home, without 
attempting to extinguish it before he left for work. As Ive already explained, the policy allows 
HDI to decline a claim if it thinks Mr H hasnt taken reasonable care of his home. And HDI 
confirmed that leaving an unextinguished fire in the steel drum beside his house was not 
taking reasonable care. So, if Mr H had given an accurate account of events from the start, 
its likely HDI wouldve declined his claim.
And that, in turn, means if HDI had paid Mr Hs claim based on a false account of events, he 
wouldve benefited from something to which he wouldnt have been entitled. So, on the face 
of it, HDI reasonably interpreted his false account of events as an attempt to benefit from the 
policy when he wasn't entitled to do so.
But Ive gone on to think about whether it was fair to cite fraud as a reason for declining the 
claim in the overall circumstances. I realise the difficult position HDI was in because Mr H 
repeatedly changed his account of events leading up to the fire. He started out saying he 
had no knowledge of the steel drum, eventually confirming hed used it to burn old kitchen 
cupboards that morning. He also said hed extinguished the fire but later confirmed he hadnt. Mr Hs family supported each of his inaccurate statements. He only made the final 
accurate statement under advice from his loss assessor to tell the truth after HDI had carried 
out extensive investigation into the cause of the fire.
However, I understand Mr H thought hed be in trouble if he said hed lit the fire, so he 
followed misguided advice of family and friends and denied knowledge of it. This, for me, is 
the key to whether Mr H made a fraudulent claim. While he did make false statements, I 
dont think HDI has evidenced any real intent to benefit from something to which he wasnt 
entitled. Rather, the evidence suggests Mr Hs position was one of trying to avoid blame for 
an unfortunate event. So, I dont think it was fair in the circumstances for HDI to rely on the 
policys fraud condition.
In summary, Mr H suffered a significant loss caused by a fire hed lit to dispose of waste. 
While he wasnt entirely honest in his account of events from the start, the evidence 
suggests the fire spread after he made the unfortunate decision to leave it still burning and 
unattended. But the evidence persuades me that Mr H wasnt trying to benefit from his policy 
so much as avoid blame for an incident which couldve been prevented. Overall, Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable for HDI to decline Mr Hs claim for failing to take necessary steps to 
prevent damage to his home, but reliance on the fraud condition isnt warranted in the 
circumstances. 
For these reasons, Im minded not to uphold Mr Hs complaint, and I see no reason to ask 
HDI to settle the claim. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
HDI accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H didnt agree. He said:
The drum was four metres from his home.
It wasnt left unattended.
His neighbour was in the garden at the same time.
Mr H put the fire out.
His neighbour saw the drum fire was out around an hour before his home set alight.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I understand Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint.
Mr Hs position, now, is that the drum wasn't near his home, the fire wasn't left unattended, 
and hed put it out. This information contradicts some of that which he reported to the fire 
service and HDI. For example, Mr H previously said he didnt extinguish the fire.
Nevertheless, Ive looked again at the evidence to decide whether it was fair for HDI to 
decline his claim for failing to take necessary steps to prevent damage to his home.
The fire service reported that the steel drum was the likely source of the fire, and that it was 
on the passageway side of the fence next to Mr Hs home when it attended. The fire service 
also confirmed the steel drum was hot to the touch. The fire investigation report concluded that the fire originated from the steel drum and that it 
passed to the fence and then Mr Hs home. 
Based on these two reports, and on balance, it seems likely that the fire wasnt put out, and 
that the steel drum was near enough to Mr Hs home to set it alight. Although Mr H says it 
was never left unattended, I cant reasonably see how the fire wouldve grown and spread, 
unnoticed, if that were the case.
Mr H hasnt provided an explanation for how the fire started and spread, if he believes the 
fire service was mistaken. And I note his account of events is different again to his previous 
statement. So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HDI to rely on the fire service and fire 
investigation conclusions, and decline the claim for failing to take necessary steps to prevent 
damage to his home.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman