DRN-1968219
The complaint
Ms F complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of her home insurance 
claim. Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes its agents unless otherwise specified.
What happened
Ms F made a claim under her home insurance policy with Ageas after noticing cracks at her 
property. Ageas loss adjustor assessed the damage and concluded the property was 
suffering from subsidence caused by clay shrinkage exacerbated by the effects of vegetation 
in the vicinity of the damaged area. Further site investigations supported this finding. So 
Ageas recommended the vegetation in question be removed to resolve the problem.
Ms F disagreed and raised what she said were factual inaccuracies in the loss adjustors 
report and the failure to carry out a thorough investigation. She was unhappy the removal of 
the vegetation would impact the privacy of her home and asked that the cost of a 
replacement fence was covered under the claim. Ageas said this wasnt included under the 
policy and would be betterment as Ms F didnt have a fence before. But it agreed to 
contribute towards this cost as a gesture of goodwill. And it said if Ms F could provide an 
independent report that showed a different cause of the subsidence, it would consider this.
Our investigator considered Ms Fs complaint. He said that based on the information 
available to Ageas, and in the absence of any expert report from Ms F contradicting its 
findings, he thought itd handled her claim fairly. He didnt uphold the complaint. Ms F 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F sent a detailed submission outlining her complaint points, which Ive fully considered. 
But in this decision, Ill address what I understand to be the key outstanding issues. 
From what Ive seen, Ms F has accepted a cash settlement from Ageas for the new 
replacement fence, so I see no need to consider this matter further in this decision as this 
part of the complaint has been resolved without need of our services input.
Ms F says Ageas has failed to carry out a thorough and professional investigation into the 
cause of the damage at her property. As a result, shes not persuaded that the vegetation 
does need to be removed to resolve the problem. She says Ageas failures have resulted in 
delays which have in turn caused her stress and upset. 
Investigation of the claim
When a claim is made, its not unusual for the first inspection of damage to be carried out by 
a loss adjustor (as in this case). If they conclude the damage is likely subsidence related, 
theyll usually arrange site investigations to work out whats causing it. This might involve 
things like bore holes, trial pits, drain or arborist investigations and soil analysis as a few 
examples. The results of these investigations help shape the conclusion on the rectification 
work required.
From what I understand, this is broadly the process Ageas followed in this case. The site 
investigations ruled out drainage issues causing subsidence. However the presence of 
several roots were found  one matching a type of tree on Ms Fs property which was noted 
to be notorious for causing clay shrinkage in soils as it demands a lot of moisture. So Ageas 
concluded the vegetation in question needs to be removed.
Ms F isnt convinced this is accurate. She says this is because the initial loss adjustors 
report had some inaccuracies about things such as the distance of the vegetation from her 
property, and she says the arborist initially told her that vegetation was unlikely the cause. 
Theres no supporting evidence of this conversation, but even if there was, from the timeline 
Ive seen, this conversation wouldve taken place before further site investigations were 
carried out, which arguably gave a more conclusive finding regarding the cause of damage.
In my experience of these types of cases, vegetation can be a common contributor or cause 
of subsidence. But Im not, and nor am I expected to be, an expert in these matters and so I 
think its reasonable to place weight on the findings of people who are. And in the absence of 
supporting evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded by the expert opinions Ive seen in this 
case, that its more likely than not the cause of the subsidence at Ms Fs property. It 
therefore seems reasonable to me that Ageas is recommending that the vegetation is 
removed to resolve the issue. 
It follows Im satisfied Ageas carried out a reasonable investigation in this case before 
reaching its decision on the claim. So I wont be directing it to do anything differently in 
relation to this. If Ms F is able to provide Ageas with her own expert report or evidence that 
suggests another cause of the subsidence, Id expect it to consider this as agreed.
Delays and upset caused
Ive looked over the timelines of events in this case. I can see that in the first few months of 
the claim being made, there was some delay on Ageas part while it queried the timing of 
when the damage being claimed for started and whether it should be claimed for under 
Ms Fs policy with it or with her previous provider. 
I agree Ageas shouldve kept Ms F better informed during this time and I can see she had to 
chase it for an update on the claim and raised concerns about the time being taken. This 
wouldve understandably caused some upset to her. But I can see that Ageas apologised for 
this and then proceeded to instruct its loss adjustor to attend the property to carry out the 
preliminary report. So Im satisfied it recognised its error at this point and took reasonable 
steps to put things right.
Ms F disagreed with the preliminary report. And additional site investigations were carried 
out over the following months as a result of this. This naturally may have slowed down the 
process, but I cant fairly hold Ageas solely responsible for delays caused by this as it was 
essentially taking steps to address Ms Fs concerns and ensure itd reached the right 
outcome. In addition to this, claims of this nature can take more time to resolve while 
relevant parties are appointed, investigations are carried out and reports are compiled.I was sorry to hear of the impact Ms F says this claim has had on her. But from what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied Ageas reasonably addressed the delays at the start of the claim. And 
after this point, Ive not seen further significant avoidable delays caused by it, so I wont be 
directing it to do anything further in relation to this.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman