DRN-1224257
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont reimburse him for a 
consequential loss he suffered in respect of accommodation and a training course he paid 
for using his Santander credit card. He brings this complaint under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
What happened
In February 2018 Mr N booked a yoga training course, and accommodation during the 
course, in an Asian country through an agent, whom Ill call T, who arranged such courses. 
Mr N paid the cost of this  over £1,000  to T using his Santander credit card.
Mr N says the accommodation was advertised as basic accommodation, with hot water, 
heating, and wifi. But when he arrived he found it wasnt as described. It had no hot water, 
nowhere to dry his clothes from the damp climate there, and no wifi. His main complaint was 
that his room was covered in damp, and the bed was constantly wet. 
Mr N says he was becoming sick from lack of sleep and damp in his lungs. So after 10 days 
he was forced to cancel the rest of his course to prevent serious damage to his health.
The training provider refunded the proportion of the training and accommodation costs he 
hadnt used. But he had to buy air tickets to return home early. He contacted Santander and 
said:
there had been a breach of contract/misrepresentation in respect of the 
accommodation by the provider for which Santander was equally responsible with the 
provider under section 75;
he had suffered a consequential loss because of this  the extra costs of the air fares 
home; and
Santander should refund these costs to him under section 75.
 
Santander said that for there to be a valid claim under section 75, there needed to be an 
unbroken chain  a debtor/creditor/supplier arrangement - between the debtor (Mr N), the 
creditor (Santander), and the supplier of the goods or services.
However in this case, the payment from the card didnt go from Santander to the provider of 
the services in Asia, but to T, who was only an arranger. T had done what was required of it 
by arranging the course and accommodation, and there was no breach by T under section 
75.
The provider of the services wasnt a part of the section 75 chain. So Santander wasnt 
responsible under section 75 for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the provider.Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
contract for the course and the accommodation amounted to a packaged holiday under the 
Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours Regulations 1992 ( the Package 
Travel Regulations).
Under these regulations, a travel agent such as T was liable for the proper performance of 
the contract in the same way as the provider. So the chain required by section 75 was 
present between the debtor (Mr N), the creditor (Santander), and the supplier (T). 
However the investigator wasnt satisfied that the accommodation as described to Mr N 
before he paid for it amounted to a misrepresentation, or that its state amounted to a breach 
of contract.
Based on what she had seen she said the description of the accommodation that Mr N 
would have seen was very limited. It didnt comment on its quality. It described the area as 
rustic and surrounded by jungle. She said she would expect there to be humidity and rain in 
this area given the geographical location, in the hills, overlooking a lake and being 
surrounded by jungle.
The videos Mr N had produced showed the surroundings, which seemed to be as described. 
However, she hadnt seen any evidence of damp in his room. So she couldnt fairly conclude 
that his sickness was caused by his accommodation.
Although Mr N thought this led to him becoming ill, she hadnt seen any evidence showing a 
direct link. Because of this she couldnt fairly say the accommodation was of unsatisfactory 
quality or unfit for purpose.
Mr N responded to say, in summary, that:
it was nearly two years since the trip. So the evidence he could provide now was 
limited;
the investigator hadnt asked for this kind of evidence when he first brought his 
complaint. In the meantime he had lost his phone which had more photos on it;
he knew he was going into a rainy jungle environment. However he expected the 
rooms to provide adequate shelter from that environment;
as it was, the dampness of the room meant the sheets on his bed were wet, and so 
he was unable to sleep. This coupled with the fact that he was engaging in tiring 
yoga practise for 12 hours a day meant that after 10 days he felt he had to leave for 
the sake of his health; and
he thought being able to rest and recover each night was a basic function of 
accommodation, and the damp conditions made this impossible.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that because of the Package Travel Regulations, the contract for 
the course and accommodation can be considered as part of a valid debtor/creditor/supplier 
arrangement under section 75. So Santander can be considered equally responsible with the 
supplier T for any breach of contract or misrepresentation in the provision of the course and 
accommodation.However, like the investigator, I dont think the evidence Mr N has been able to provide is 
sufficient for me to say that there was any misrepresentation or breach of contract on the 
part of T. The description of the accommodation now available is very sparse. Its described 
as rustic accommodation and basically encircled with the jungle.
Mr N hasnt been able to produce any evidence of the dampness he complains about, or that 
he raised it at the time with the provider. Nor has he produced evidence that the effect he 
says occurred to his health was caused by such damp conditions.
So Im unable to say that there was any misrepresentation or breach of contract for which I 
can reasonably hold Santander responsible under section 75.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Santander UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman