DRN-2563195
The complaint
Ms D and Mr P complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a life and critical illness 
mortgage protection policy in 1996.
What happened
When Ms D and Mr P applied for a mortgage with HSBC in 1996, the bank sold them a life 
and critical illness policy to protect the mortgage. Ms D and Mr P paid the premiums on the 
policy until it ended in August 2013.
In 2020, Ms D and Mr P complained to HSBC that the policy had been mis-sold. They said 
they didnt request the cover, had no dependents and didnt plan to become parents, had 
what they considered secure jobs and had no need for life or critical illness cover. Ms D and 
Mr P say that it wasnt made clear to them that critical illness cover was optional.
HSBC provided a final response and said that in 1996 it was their policy that a suitable life 
cover policy was taken out as a condition of their mortgages. The bank confirmed that the 
critical illness cover was optional but felt that it wasnt unsuitable as this would provide 
security over the term of the mortgage. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms D and Mr P were unhappy with the response from HSBC and brought their complaint to 
our service. One of our investigators looked into things for Ms D and Mr P and thought that 
HSBC hadnt done anything significantly wrong when they sold the policy as it was a 
condition of the mortgage and that critical illness cover was suitable addition to the policy. 
Ms D and Mr P didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides 
their complaint. Theyve asked me to consider that they were coerced into taking out life 
cover and critical illness when they neither wanted it, nor needed it. They say that if it had 
been made clear at the time that the policy was a condition of the mortgage, they wouldve 
looked elsewhere to borrow the funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms D and Mr P have waited several months for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision on their complaint. Im very sorry its taken so long for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman and I apologise for the delay. I appreciate that Ms D and Mr P will be 
disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as our investigator, I wont be upholding 
the complaint. I will now explain why.
Ms D and Mr P arranged their mortgage in 1996. Neither Ms D and Mr P nor HSBC has 
been able to provide a copy of the mortgage offer, but before September 2001 it was very 
common that life protection was a condition residential lending. HSBC have told us it was 
their policy to make it a condition of the mortgage that there was a suitable life policy in 
place. Ms D and Mr P say they werent told this at the time. There are no records available to 
confirm what was discussed at the time of the sale, so in this situation I must consider what 
is likely to have happened based on the evidence Ive seen and the testimony of the parties.
Although Ive not seen a copy of the mortgage offer, neither Ms D and Mr P, nor HSBC have 
raised any concerns that the sum assured and term of the policy didnt match the amount 
and term of the mortgage. So, its reasonable for me to infer the policy protected the 
mortgage balance for the whole term.
Ive looked carefully at the policy documents Ms D and Mr P have provided and the certified 
copy of a Key Features document HSBC provided from the time of the sale. These suggest 
the policy was a Mortgage Protection policy and the cover decreased in line with a 
repayment mortgage balance. The Key Features document explains that the premium was 
fixed and would only change if HSBCs claim experience varied significantly from their 
projections. The illustration Ms D and Mr P provided doesnt support the premiums shouldve 
reduced over the term and, in this case, the premiums stayed fixed for the term as stated.
Its up to each business to decide what terms and conditions to place on its lending, and if 
HSBC made it a requirement that a consumer had term assurance in place to protect the 
mortgage, then that was entirely their decision. Ive decided it was likely life cover was a 
condition of the mortgage. HSBC say it was. And although I acknowledge Ms D and Mr P 
say they werent told this, Im satisfied that because the mortgage was arranged before 
2001, this gives more weight to what HSBC told us. So, I consider it more likely a life policy 
was a condition of the mortgage and that it wasnt mis-sold.
Ive noted Ms D and Mr P say they wouldve shopped around for a better mortgage deal. I 
accept this is something they may have been able to do at the time, but there is no 
guarantee they wouldve found a lender who wouldnt insist on a life policy being a condition 
of any mortgage. As Ive already said, it was common for lenders to insist on a life policy at 
this time.
In respect of the critical illness element of the policy, Ive seen the comments from Ms D and 
Mr P that they had no children, no plans for children and that their jobs were secure. They 
consider this cover was unsuitable and was mis-sold. Critical illness cover for a mortgage is 
almost always suitable, regardless of whether the mortgage is joint and whether there are 
dependents. This is because it allows the borrower to pay off their mortgage, and have 
somewhere to live, if they are diagnosed with one of the illnesses the policy covers. They 
can then use their freed-up income to pay for things like care costs or necessary 
adjustments to their property. Combining critical illness cover with life cover is generally 
more cost-effective as it doesnt require two policies setting up. So, in this case Im satisfied 
that it was appropriate for HSBC to recommend critical illness cover at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman