DRN-3581002
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus restricted its account.
What happened
N had an account with Cashplus. In August 2021 it was contacted for updating information 
as part of a know your business (KYB) review. It is unhappy that its account was restricted 
when it was told that this could only happen if it didnt comply. And that this restriction wasnt 
removed even though it says it met all the requirements.
Cashplus said that when it had reviewed the information provided by N it had further 
questions. It arranged a call about this with a director. And said that the account would be 
restricted in the meantime so it could fulfil its regulatory obligations. It said in the response to 
the complaint that it was able to restrict the account at any time during its lifetime and 
without notice if it is deemed such notice would be prejudicial to any investigation. It has 
specifically referred to acting in line with Clause 10.1 of the terms and conditions of the 
account. 
Cashplus said that those restrictions were put in place on 24 August 2021 and not 19 August 
2021 as N had stated. A call with N was completed on 26 August 2021 and following a 
review it was decided that verification documents from the director were required. These 
were a certified proof of address and two proof of identity documents. Although the director 
had provided documents it said that for example a welcome letter from another bank couldnt 
be accepted. And that a bank statement wasnt dated within the last three months as 
needed. At the time of the complaint in October 2021 a proof of address was still required 
and Cashplus understood that N was then not prepared to provide anything further.
Our investigator said that he thought that Cashplus had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. It had a responsibility to meet regulatory requirements. The 
account had subsequently been closed and he noted that N said that this had been at its 
request.
N didnt agree. The director said that Cashplus hadnt adhered to its own guidelines and 
hadnt either shown then or later explained that there were reasonable grounds to restrict the 
account. It hadnt told it about the restriction. It had asked for a bank statement from the 
director but not confirmed that this needed to be certified. There were contradictions and 
confusion in the process. N insisted that the account had been restricted from 19 August 
2021. It disputed that its documentation was out of date. N didnt pose a security risk and 
had been affected by the illegitimate restriction. It wanted compensation and said that this 
should be up to £150,000 for business interruption.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that N was incorporated as a company in 2021 and I can see that the first entry 
on its bank account with Cashplus was on 8 June 2021. Id have expected Cashplus to make 
its checks before the account became operational. But it would be open to it to review an 
account at any time. Here it explained to N that it needed more information about its 
business as part of a KYB/ enhanced due diligence process.
As N says it was told that if it provided this by 6 September 2021 the account wouldnt be at 
risk of restriction. I understand that this information was about Ns operation and structure. 
While Cashplus accepts N completed a questionnaire in good time it states that when it 
reviewed this it decided it had further questions. This came to light on 24 August 2021 and it 
told N that it needed to discuss the position in a call. It decided to restrict the account during 
the process. The call was held on 26 August 2021 and unfortunately this didnt resolve all 
the issues. As set out above Cashplus then needed documentation regarding the director. I 
accept that there might have been some confusion about the need for a certified copy of the 
information. But Cashplus did specify why what had been provided didnt meet its 
requirements and referred to what was set out about this on its website. During the period it 
was unable to verify information about the director and N and the account remained 
restricted. I understand that this was finally resolved in December 2021 and the money in the 
account released in January 2022. The account has been closed.
Cashplus has referred to the terms and conditions. Im satisfied that it reasonably acted in 
accordance with Section 10.1 and also 10.2 of those terms in order to meet regulatory 
requirements. And that it made clear to N the information it needed about its business and 
director. It could restrict the account for these reasons as its review continued. I appreciate 
that further questions were identified during the review based on the information that was 
provided. 
I note from the bank statement that payments were made up to 23 August 2021 which I think 
supports what Cashplus states about when the account was restricted. The director had a 
review on 26 August 2021 which would reasonably have clarified the position and that the 
account was restricted. I dont see that there is anything else for Cashplus to explain about 
the review.
When what was required was all provided the restriction was removed. I dont think 
Cashplus expected that it would take the time it did for the process to be completed. And 
while I dont doubt that N attempted to meet the requirements Im satisfied on balance that it 
didnt meet the proof of identity/ address requirements in the way Cashplus has explained. I 
understand that this was frustrating for the director. But after 9 September 2021 that seems 
to be all that was outstanding, and I dont find those remaining requirements to be either 
unreasonable or necessarily onerous for N. Its unfortunate that these in practice proved 
difficult for it to meet. But given what Ive said I dont find Cashplus should be held 
responsible for any impact on Ns trading.
So, Im afraid I wont be requiring Cashplus to do anything further. If N doesnt accept my 
decision it remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman