DRN-1826768
The complaint
Miss W complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited broke data protection 
regulations by texting her Mum instead of her in relation to her credit card debt.
What happened
In January 2019 Cabot were provided with a new contact number which was associated with 
Miss W. This was Miss Ws Mums phone number. Cabot contacted Miss Ws Mum on four 
occasions  three times in February 2019, and again in April 2019. As part of these text 
messages a link was provided, which after entering Miss Ws date of birth, would allow her 
Mum to see the amount of her debts with Cabot.
In May 2019 Miss W complained to Cabot, saying this was a breach of data protection 
regulations. And her and her Mum had been caused distress by this.
Cabot replied to Miss Ws complaint. They said the telephone number was associated with 
her, and because they had no reason to believe it was wrong, they added it to their records. 
But Cabot accept they made a mistake on this occasion and said sorry. Cabot also felt they 
hadnt breached any data regulations.
Unhappy with this Miss W got in touch with us. She let us know her Mum knew she had 
debts, but because of her Mums anxiety Miss W hadnt told her how much. But, because of 
the text messages her Mum was able to find out. Miss W also felt Cabot had broken data 
protection regulations by contacting her Mum, when shed never given them her Mums 
details.
One of our investigators looked into things. In summary he said its not for us to tell a 
business what their procedures should be, or to make a finding about whether they have 
breached data protection regulations. But rather wed look at the impact Cabots actions 
have had  and in this case he felt Cabot had made an error and awarded Miss W £200.
Miss W accepted this, but Cabot didnt. They said they have a responsibility to keep contact 
details up to date, and to ensure repayments remain affordable  which is why they were 
getting in touch in the first place. They also said they felt it unfair they were being penalised 
when it was Miss Ws Mum who opened the link, when it was clearly only addressed to 
Miss W.
Ultimately, because Cabot didnt agree to the outcome, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to firstly set out its not my role to decide whether Cabot have breached any 
data protection regulations  as our investigator explained. Its also not my role to decide 
whether Cabots processes are fair.
But, I can look at the actions Cabot have taken in relation to this complaint, and if I feel they 
have caused Miss W distress I can award compensation I think is appropriate.
Cabot have explained they have a responsibility to keep in touch with their consumers, and 
to ensure repayments continue to be affordable. This is true, they do. So, I dont think the 
action of Cabot attempting to get in touch with Miss W was wrong.
Its unclear though why Cabot got Miss Ws Mums telephone number to add to her file. I 
cant see any suggestions Miss Ws number was wrong on their systems  and Miss W 
herself has said its never changed. Its also unclear why Cabot didnt use Miss Ws original 
contact details in February and April when they got in touch with her Mum.
Cabot have said they hadnt been in touch with Miss W since August 2018, and the new 
number was provided to them in January 2019. Ive not seen anything to show Cabot 
attempted to verify the information given to them, or why they couldnt have used Miss Ws 
existing contact details.
So, taking all of this into account, Im satisfied Cabot have made an error in sending text 
messages to Miss Ws Mums number.
In relation to the compensation awarded by our investigator Cabot have argued they 
shouldnt be held responsible for Miss Ws Mum accessing information that clearly wasnt 
meant for her.
I understand why Cabot might argue this  but, the only reason Miss Ws Mum was able to 
access this information is because Cabot made an error in sending her the text messages. 
Had they not made this error, then this situation wouldnt have happened.
Miss W has said her Mum suffers from anxiety, so hadnt told her about the amount of the 
debts, who they were with and so on. I cant award compensation to Miss Ws Mum, as shes 
not a party to the complaint, but I accept that this will have caused Miss W some 
embarrassment and distress.
Putting things right
So, taking all of the above information into account, I think Cabot have made an error, and 
Im satisfied £200 is a fair amount of compensation to resolve this issue.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to pay Miss W 
£200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman