DRN-4444592
The complaint
Mr D complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost when he was a victim of a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In July 2023 Mr D received a telephone call from scammers impersonating a legitimate 
crypto firm. The scammers convinced Mr D that if he were to pay a withdrawal fee of £7,000, 
he would receive over £90,000. To do this Mr D was instructed to set up a Revolut account, 
a crypto wallet and also downloaded remote desktop software to allow the scammers to 
assist him. 
Two payments were made from Mr Ds Revolut account to a legitimate crypto exchange 
before being forwarded on to the scammers. Mr D says it was the scammers that made 
these payments, not him, as they had access to his Revolut card details by using the remote 
desktop software. The relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
24 July 2023 Debit card transaction £2,505.72
24 July 2023 Debit card transaction £875.66
Total £3,381.38
Mr D has explained that he became concerned about the opportunity as, after hed made the 
above payments, the scammers called him frequently and applied pressure for him to 
deposit more. And so, Mr D carried out an internet search and spoke to a few people about it 
 which led to him realising hed been scammed. 
Mr D contacted Revolut about the scam payments but they explained a refund wasnt 
possible. They said Mr D authenticated the payments via 3D Secure (3DS), which required 
him to confirm the transactions on the Revolut app. And so, a chargeback claim couldnt be 
pursued. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
Investigator didnt however think Revolut had to do anything further. She considered Mr D 
authorised the payments as, even though the scammers may have processed them by using 
the remote desktop software, Mr D was aware the funds were leaving his account and 
allowed it to be sent. She also didnt think the payments were unusual or suspicious enough 
whereby she wouldve expected Revolut to have identified them as being made in relation to 
a scam. Nor did she think Revolut acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback claim for the 
disputed payments.
Mr D requested his complaint be reviewed by an Ombudsman, and so it has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr D has been the victim of a scam and I dont underestimate the impact this has 
had on him. But I must consider whether Revolut is responsible for the loss he has suffered. 
And while I realise this isnt the outcome Mr D is hoping for, for similar reasons as our 
Investigator, I dont think they are. I therefore dont think Revolut has acted unfairly by not 
refunding the payments. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an electronic money institution (EMI) is 
expected to process payments that their customer authorises them to make. Here, Mr D 
says he didnt make the payments himself but it was the scammers that processed them on 
his computer by using remote desktop software. Revolut has however explained that that the 
payments were authorised by 3DS and this required Mr D to confirm the transactions on 
their app  which they sent push notifications to. Ive also considered that Mr D was aware of 
the payments being made by the scammer at the time, as he allowed them to do so. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Mr D authorised the payments. And, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Revolut are expected to process 
the payments and Mr D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr D to Revolut (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual enough to have expected additional checks being 
carried out before the payments were processed. 
The Revolut account was newly opened and so there wasnt any historical spending to have 
allowed Revolut to assess whether the scam payment transactions were unusual or out of 
character for Mr D. Ive therefore thought about whether the payments themselves, without 
any typical account usage available, were suspicious enough to have prompted Revolut to 
consider Mr D was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
The payments were made to a legitimate crypto exchange. And while there are known fraud 
risks associated with crypto, as scams like this have unfortunately become more prevalent, 
many of Revoluts customers use their services to legitimately invest in crypto - particularly 
as many high street banks have applied limits or restrictions. Because of this, and as I dont 
think the payments were of a significant enough value, either individually or collectively, I 
dont think there wouldve been enough reason for Revolut to have concerns. I therefore 
think it was reasonable for Revolut to assume the payments were being made for legitimate 
crypto purposes. And so, it follows that I wouldnt have expected Revolut to have taken 
additional steps or carried out additional checks before processing the payments. 
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, Revolut could reasonably have done 
anything to recover Mr Ds losses, but I dont think they could. The only possible option for 
recovery here, given the payments were made by debit card, would have been via a 
chargeback claim. But given these payments were for the purchasing of crypto with a 
legitimate firm, I dont think a chargeback claim would have been successful as Mr D 
received the service he paid for. As such, I think it was reasonable for Revolut not have 
raised a chargeback claim here. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr D and the loss hes suffered. But it would only be fair 
for me to direct Revolut to refund his loss if I thought Revolut was responsible  and Im not 
persuaded that this was the case. For the above reasons, I think Revolut has acted fairly and 
so Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman