DRN-4223029
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling UK Plc blocked his account and wont return money to him. 
Hes also unhappy that Starling closed his account.
What happened
Mr H had a personal account with Starling. In  June 2021, Starling decided to review how 
Mr H was operating his account. As part of its review Starling asked Mr H to provide them 
with information about money which had been paid into his account. Whilst it completed its 
review Starling blocked Mr Hs account. This meant Mr H couldnt access the money held in 
his account, which was around £12,000.
Mr H told Starling that most of the money which had been paid into his account had come 
from the sale of a vehicle. And he provided paperwork to support his explanation. Starling 
reviewed all the information Mr H provided and what hed said about the credit. But it wasnt 
happy with Mr Hs explanation and said it wouldnt release the funds. Following this, Starling 
closed Mr Hs account and sent him a cheque for his closing balance.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. The investigator asked Mr H to provide, more information about the vehicle 
sale and his entitlement to the money in his account. After reviewing all the information, the 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She thought the bank had acted fairly in not 
releasing the money, blocking, and then closing his account. Mr H disagreed. He says hes 
out of pocket and wants Starling to release the money to him. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether Starling acted fairly when it blocked and closed Mr Hs account. 
And asked him for information about funds that had been paid into the account. Mr H has 
pointed out that the block and closure of his account has caused him a lot of problems and 
stress. Im sorry that whats happened has caused Mr H trouble and upset. But for me to 
uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in 
this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Starling have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer and/or 
the activity on an account. The terms of the account also permit Starling to block an account.  
So, I cant say Starling treated Mr H unfairly when it decided to block his account.
As part of their review, Starling asked Mr H for detailed information about the money in his 
account and where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their obligations. Having 
reviewed everything, I do think Starlings requests were reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ultimately it is Starling who decide what information they do or do not require as part of a 
due diligence review and they have a duty to protect their customers money and understand 
where it came from. Because of that, I cant fairly conclude Starling acted inappropriately 
when it asked Mr H to provide it with information about the source of funds in his account.
Following its review, Starling decided to close Mr Hs account and wrote to him in November 
2021, giving him seven days notice that he needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements. Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Starling acted fairly in closing Mr Hs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Starling closed Mr Hs 
account with notice. However, Mr H wasnt able to use his account from the date Starling 
blocked it. So, I consider Starling closed the account immediately. For Starling to act fairly 
here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having 
looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms 
fairly. And it was entitled to close the account as its already done. 
release of funds
When Starling closed Mr Hs account it sent him a cheque for his closing balance  which 
was just over £200. Mr H says this isnt all the money he was due. The crux of Mr Hs 
complaint is that he wants the remaining money, that was paid into his account released to 
him. Since bringing his complaint to our service, the investigator was able to establish that 
£1,800 of the money remaining in Mr Hs account had been set off against a business loan 
Mr H had with Starling, which Mr H has accepted. 
Mr H has said that the remaining £10,000 was money hed received from a vehicle he sold to 
a company, which I will refer to as B. Mr H says he received this money on 5 November 
2020 from B. And hes explained that he had established business links with B, until he 
parted ways with the company. So, the £10,000 should be returned to him. 
As part of its review Starling asked Mr H to provide it with information about his entitlement 
to the remaining funds in his account -  £11,800 (which included the £10,000) that was paid 
into his account in October 2021. In response, Mr H provided paperwork, which included 
invoices relating to rental payments he says he received from B. He also provided a DVLA 
screenshot showing a transfer of ownership for a vehicle dated 11 May 2020, and a fleet 
vehicle insurance certificate effective from June 2019.
Starling didnt think the information Mr H provided was sufficient. Having looked at the 
information and thought about what Mr H has said about the money in his account, I can 
understand the banks concerns. I say this because Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H 
actually owned the vehicle, he says he sold. Ive also not seen any invoices for the sale of 
the vehicle between him and B, which I find unusual. Mr H also hasnt offered any 
explanation why he wasnt paid by B until 5 November 2020, for a vehicle he says he sold 
six months earlier in May 2020.  
Ive also considered the information that Starling has provided this service about how Mr H 
was operating his account and his links to various business accounts. With this in mind, I can understand why Starling wanted to know more about the funds. I can understand too 
why it didnt consider Mr H had adequately explained his entitlement to the money. Having 
looked at the information Mr H has provided, and in the absence of further information, Im 
not satisfied that this shows Mr H is entitled to the money which was paid into his account. 
So, whilst I realise this will be disappointing to Mr H, I cant say the bank has treated Mr H 
unfairly when it decided not to release the money to him. And I wont be asking the bank to 
do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman