DRN-3074196
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited took 
too long to open an account. It says it wants compensation for the missed opportunity to 
trade shares.
Mr and Mrs M, who are directors of C, bring the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C applied to open an execution only share dealing account. Mr M says it should have taken 
five working days for the account to be set up. But Interactive Investor received the 
application on 8 October and the account wasnt set up until 12 November. C had planned to 
invest £200,000. The market moved during this period and C says its lost around £24,000.
Interactive Investor apologised for the delay in setting up the account, for a delay in replying 
to an email, and for the wrong information Mr M was given during a phone call. It credited 
Cs trading account with £50, by way of an apology, and later offered an additional £50. It 
said it did not compensate for lost trades.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Interactive Investor had fairly compensated C for the delay in opening the account and that 
there wasnt clear evidence that C was planning to trade, so she didnt recommend 
compensation for trading losses.
C didnt agree. Mr M said, on its behalf and in summary, that: 
If the account had been set up without delays, C would have profited significantly more 
than £100.
The application to open the account, and the correspondence with Cs accountant, 
demonstrates Cs intention to invest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Interactive Investor has apologised for the delays in opening the account. Its explained this 
was largely due to the application being sent to the wrong department (even though it was 
correctly addressed). And then, when it reached the correct department, being placed at the 
bottom of the queue, rather than being given priority.
I need to decide whether the delay, and poor service, provided by Interactive Investor, 
resulted in a financial loss for which C should be compensated. And how much 
compensation C should receive for any inconvenience caused.
C has provided a copy of an email to its accountant dated a few days before the account 
application was completed asking for tax advice. This email makes it clear that C was 
planning on buying sharesto the sum of £200,000. They will probably be large house 
builder shares. But Ive not seen evidence to show exactly what investment C planned to 
make, and when. I cant be certain exactly what trades C might have made if the account 
had been opened earlier than it was, or whether any profit would have been realised. So 
I cant determine that C has made a financial loss. 
The delay in setting up the account will have caused C some inconvenience. And I can see 
that Mr M had to phone a number of times, and send several emails, to try to find out what 
was happening. This would have taken him away from other business activities. But, having 
thought about this very carefully, I think Interactive Investors offer of £100 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. It has already credited Cs trading account with £50 and 
I think it should now pay C the further £50.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Interactive Investor Services Limited 
should pay C £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman