DRN-3650259
The complaint
Mr C says Ethos Financial Solutions (EFS) was responsible for poor advice about taking 
money from his personal pension. He says hes incurred incorrect tax, received mistaken 
payments and that EFS failed to properly weigh his available options for accessing funds to 
meet his objectives. He says its caused him financial detriment.
What happened
Mr C joined a new employer in 2015. He met with an adviser from EFS (previously 
registered as ProAktive Financial Services Limited). It had been retained since 2013 to 
provide employees at the business with pensions advice.
Mr C joined his new employers group personal pension with Standard Life. And he received 
advice in relation to his circumstances and objectives at the time. Hed recently re-
mortgaged to fund a house extension to better the lives of his growing family. The ongoing 
project required further funds to complete and he already had significant credit card debts.
EFS recommended that he should access 25% tax-free cash (TFC) from an existing 
personal pension he had with Royal London. The transfer value achieved was around 
£77,000. It advised him to move the funds to a Nucleus Pension Account, which provided a 
draw-down facility. Mr C accepted EFSs recommendations.
Mr C met with EFS again in 2016. He asked for advice about raising money for further home 
improvements. It explained he could take further cash from his drawdown pot with Nucleus, 
but that it would be taxed. He said it explained the sum would be taxed at source through the 
pay as you earn (PAYE) system, with the remainder being paid into his bank account. Mr C 
accepted EFSs recommendation.
Unfortunately matters didnt proceed smoothly. In 2017 Mr C received an unexpected 
pension payment into his account. When he asked EFS about what had happened, an error 
was identified in the original paperwork it had sent his pension provider meaning it thought 
he required regular annual lump sum payments, rather than just the drawdown sum in 2016.
EFS says Mr C was told he could either keep the lump sum, setting out the tax implications 
of him doing so. Or he could return the funds and subject to verification by HM Revenue and 
Customs (HMRC), these would be placed back in his pension. Mr C says he opted to retain 
the money.
Further, the Government introduced changes to the Money Purchase Annual Allowance 
(MPAA) regime in 2017, which meant that anyone who had drawn benefits (not including 
TFC) from such a pension would be subject to a cap on tax relief on contributions to their 
pensions at £4,000. When EFS had advised Mr C about taking lump sum income from his 
draw-down plan in 2016, the MPAA had been £10,000.
In 2018 HMRC contacted Mr C about unpaid tax of around £8,000 on the pension payment 
hed received in 2016. He says EFS told him HMRC had provided the wrong tax code, but 
that HMRC has confirmed it made no error. Mr C says at this point he took the benefits from 
his Standard Life pension following advice from EFS. This was to meet his unpaid tax 
demands. He says he was told he should do this without its involvement.
Mr C has several concerns about what happened to him from 2016 onwards. For example, 
he says that in 2016 EFS failed to provide any benefit and cost comparison for accessing 
capital, between his pension benefits and other options such as re-mortgaging. He says EFS 
had information about his employer and remuneration. It arranged the drawdown, paid the 
tax, and placed the remainder in his bank account. Hed assumed this had been done 
correctly. But this wasnt the case, as he found out in 2018 when he received a large tax 
demand from HMRC.
Mr C says that EFSs advice in 2017 was again lacking when he received a lump sum 
pension payment in error. He said the first he knew about it was when a large sum appeared 
in his bank account. He had no paperwork relating to it and so didnt know what the gross 
payment had been. And he says the advice it gave him about limits on his pension 
contributions had been incorrect.
Mr C says the advice EFS gave him in 2018 to access his Standard Life benefits in order to 
meet his tax liabilities, was also flawed. He says it simply continued the domino effect of 
poor advice leading to consequences which it hadnt identified for him.
EFS rejected Mr Cs complaint. In its final response of 10 July 2020 it said its advice in 2016 
had been against a backdrop of his difficulty in servicing his debts, including those related to 
the extension of his home. It said he was made aware of the tax implications of making 
further withdrawals from his Nucleus pension pot.
EFS noted the retrospective nature of certain pension tax regulations introduced by the 
Government in 2017, which it acknowledged had a detrimental effect on Mr Cs position. It 
says these couldnt have been foreseen. The consultation to reduce the MPAA from £10,000 
per year to £4,000 was only initiated in November 2016, subsequent to its advice in March 
2016.
EFS noted that the issues experienced by Mr C in relation to the tax he paid on the 2016 
withdrawal were outside its control. It was HMRC that wouldve informed his pension 
provider what tax code to use. And it was Nucleus which was responsible for ensuring it 
adhered to HMRC requirements.
EFS acknowledged the error in making a pension income payment in 2017. But it says that it 
advised Mr C of his options, which included paying the money back into his pension plan. 
After enquiring about the effect of Government proposals to reduce the MPAA, he decided to 
retain the funds.
Finally, EFS has said that it didnt provide Mr C with any advice in relation to his Standard 
Life pension. It simply outlined some options for him in respect of meeting the demands hed 
received from HMRC for unpaid tax.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs case. He thought that on balance EFS hadnt treated 
him unfairly. Mr C disagreed. In his last submission he told the Investigator:
The point at which Ethos should have demonstrated the cost of taxable cash against 
remortgaging was [in 2016], when I had 2 years fixed rate remaining, and was considering 
whether to access taxable cash. They did not do this at this point.
Ethos stateHMRC gave them the incorrect tax code. When I asked HMRCabout the 
tax codeand whether my employer might have made an error that contributedthe HMRC 
response stated the tax code supplied was correct, and that there was no employer error.The key point here is that Ethos state that HMRC gave them the incorrect information, and 
HMRC state that they did notYou also state that Ethos should have noticed and raised the 
discrepancy between the payments in 2015/16 and 2016/17 payments. I agree with you they 
made an error here.
You said Ethos explained there would be restrictions on payments into pensions caused 
by this mistake [the lump sum pension income payment in 2017]. You will see from the 
emails that I specifically asked about this point when making this decision, and their advisor 
stated that there would not beIt did later turn out that they were wrongas the Chancellor 
changed the rules retrospectivelyI based my decision upon their advice.
You now understand that I took the benefits of my Standard Life pension following advice 
from Ethos, which you will have seen as one of the options they suggested in an email. I 
chose this option in a face to face meeting with their advisor, who said I should then do this 
personally...I was surprised by this. I have also told you that I found it quite straightforward to 
achieve, so I was therefore grateful for this advice, as it (presumably) saved me their fee
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Cs 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision earlier this month. Both parties have provided additional submissions 
which Ive considered carefully in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint  but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by EFS for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like EFS. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.When EFS met with Mr C in 2015 it sought to understand his circumstances, objectives and 
attitude to risk. The fact-find from August 2015 confirms that Mr C was married with two 
children. Both he and his wife worked. Their joint net income was around £2,700 a month 
and they were said to have household running costs of around £1,700. This suggests some 
headroom in the budget which hasnt been adequately explored.
Mr and Mrs Cs home was said to be worth around £180,000. They had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £100,000 which they had extended in the previous year and had put in 
place a four-year fixed arrangement. Although they had savings of about £3,000, they also 
had credit card and car finance debt of around £25,000.
EFS recorded that Mr C wanted to take TFC from his pension in order to reduce his debts 
and to continue with his home improvements.
Theres no dispute between the parties that EFS recommended that Mr C should take TFC 
from his Royal London personal pension and establish a draw-down pension with Nucleus 
as the provider. I wouldve expected to have seen some analysis of what other options were 
considered, together with the costs and benefits of each. Similarly in respect of the 
investment options, pension providers and pension vehicles considered.
However, EFS has been unable to supply a copy of the suitability report I wouldve expected 
to accompany its recommendations to Mr C from 2015. It says it hasnt been able to retrieve 
it due to system issues. This is a failing on its part and complicates consideration of this 
case.
EFS says conversations with employees of the firm it was providing services for are always 
client driven. It wouldve considered Mr Cs options but taking on a larger mortgage wouldve 
been rejected because of the penalties and costs associated with moving away from his 
fixed deal and because hed wanted to reduce his debts.
EFS said an annuity was considered but discounted because it didnt offer him the flexibility 
required. And moving his Royal London funds into his new Standard Life pension to reduce 
cost was a possibility, but this didnt fit with his objectives.
Mr C accepted EFSs advice and he took TFC of around £19,000 from his pension. When 
responding to the Investigator about the events in 2015, Mr C said:
As I have previously stated, I had no issue with accessing the tax-free cash. Ethos 
suggested I transfer my previous pension into a drawdown so I could access tax-free cash, 
and I chose to do this. They did this and transferred the money with no issue. You are 
correct that I had three years left on a fixed rate mortgage at the time, and didnt want to 
service more debt at this time.
As Mr C appears content with what happened in 2015, I see no reason to explore this 
particular matter further.
Turning to Mr Cs pension income withdrawal in 2016. Mr C confirmed he discussed his 
finances with EFS in March that year. He says they discussed re-mortgaging but as hed 
changed mortgage in 2014 he didnt know if that wouldve been advisable. So the 
conversation focussed on his draw-down pension pot.
EFS said it conducted regular pension surgeries at the offices of Mr Cs employer. It said Mr 
C sometimes didnt book a time slot to see its adviser, often popping his head around the 
door for a have you got a minute type chat. It said a discussion about his re-mortgaging always happened but it really wasnt an option until the fixed rate had finished because of 
the penalties that would be incurred, and due to the additional monthly cost of borrowing. It 
said Mr C wanted to generate unencumbered capital without repayment.
One of Mr Cs arguments about the transaction in March 2016 was that in securing more 
capital funds, EFS failed to provide him with any analysis about the costs and benefits of 
taking more funds from his pension pot as opposed to re-mortgaging.
In responding to my provisional decision Mr C said:
This is at the heart of the matter. At this point I did not know if remortgaging would be 
advisable. That is where I needed the right advice. If EFS had demonstrated this in 2016, 
then I believe I would have been shown that the penalties for remortgaging would have been 
much less than the tax that I would pay on the pension withdrawal.
I also believe that if EFS had demonstrated the principle that I could borrow against a 
pension instead of simply withdrawing it, I would also have been better advised.
Theres some merit in Mr Cs arguments. EFS cant produce paperwork which shows the 
substance of its interaction with him in 2016. For example, theres no summary of his then 
objectives or circumstances. Theres no document capturing any information or 
recommendations it gave him, or the rationale for such. Theres nothing to understand the 
status of the transaction. This is a real weakness in its approach in this case.
Theres no way of knowing with certainty today what wouldve happened in 2016 had EFS 
provided him with the information Id have expected to see about the benefits and costs of 
his options when it advised him about the first pension income drawdown that he took from 
his Nucleus pension in March 2016.
Mr C says had EFS demonstrated re-mortgaging or taking a loan against his pension was a 
better option hed have gone that route. But its not clear to me that such options wouldve 
delivered a clear case for what he now believes in hindsight. The different options had 
different repayment, interest, fees and tax implications. Its also the case that to extricate 
himself from his fixed term mortgage hed have incurred penalties.
I have to decide on balance in light of the evidence available to me. I think its more likely 
than not that had there been no failings in EFSs approach Mr C wouldnt have changed his 
mind about accessing his pension. I say this because from what Ive seen he needed to 
access capital. He wanted to pay for home improvements to support his family. And he 
wanted to pay down credit cards and finance arrangements, not take on more debt. 
Mr C says EFS told him that any pension benefits taken from his Nucleus pot would be 
taxable. But he says it told him it would handle the taxation at source like PAYE with the 
balance placed into his bank account. Mr C says he was pleased EFS had dealt with the 
taxation and he hadnt questioned whether this had been done correctly.
EFS said Mr C continued to have problems covering his debts, for example in relation to his 
property extension and credit cards. The only monies left in his Nucleus pension were 
taxable income withdrawals which it informed him should he access would incur a higher 
rate income tax due to his employment earnings.
Another argument Mr C makes is in relation to the tax liability he incurred in 2016. Following 
discussions with EFS, he decided to take £27,000 from his draw-down facility. He thought 
EFS had arranged the payment, for any tax to be paid at source and for the balance to be 
paid into his bank account. Hed assumed everything had worked correctly. But in 2018 he received a demand from HMRC for around £8,000 in under-paid tax. He considered EFS 
had been responsible for what had happened.
Theres a difference between the parties about what was said in 2016. And EFSs poor 
approach to recording the advice it was giving Mr C hinders matters. There is a note on file 
dated 14 March which records a meeting held between the parties a few days earlier. It 
records:
Met with [Mr C] at [his employers office]. At the meeting [Mr C] highlighted the problem he 
currently has with covering debts involving extension of his property and various other credit 
card debts valued at circa £15,000 and was asking for my guidance with regard to drawing 
more money from his pension however the only monies left in the pension scheme is income 
which is liable to tax charge and as [Mr C] is a higher rate tax payer he will need to withdraw 
circa£27,000 in order to net £15,000 into his bank account.
He was made aware of the tax charge however after weighing up the downsides to 
withdrawing the monies from his pension and taking into account he already has a final 
salary scheme in situ which he will be able to draw at retirement at circa £11,000 per year, 
[Mr C] was more comfortable in withdrawing the monies from his pension, suffering the tax 
charge and potentially using the monthly cash release to top up his pension
Therefore from March 2016 Mr C wishes to draw out £27,000 gross from his draw-down 
plan set up in 2015.
I tend to give more weight to evidence which is contemporaneous with events, over 
testimony which is provided by parties some years later. Inevitably memories can and do 
fade. I think its more likely than not EFSs note is a reasonable summary of the discussions 
which took place at the time.
I think Mr C wouldve been aware that in order to generate £15,000 capital  perhaps to pay 
down his credit card debts  he would need to access £27,000 from his Nucleus pension. I 
also think its more likely than not he received a letter from Nucleus dated 6 April 2016 sent 
to his home address which informed him about his withdrawal. It showed only around £3,300 
had been deducted (a marginal rate of tax of 12%), somewhat less than he shouldve been 
expecting at the time.
Theres been some debate in this case about who was responsible for Mr C under-paying 
tax in 2015-16 as a result of this transaction. Its clear that HMRC informed Nucleus about 
the tax code it should use in making the payment. It was required to follow that instruction. 
The tax code notified by HMRC to Nucleus was 1060L. This meant Mr C could earn £10,600 
before incurring tax on his pension income payment. But this appears to have stood in 
isolation from consideration of his employment earnings. In broad terms, he was benefitting 
from double the normal tax allowance. A more wholistic approach by the tax office to his 
situation wouldve resulted in a more appropriate tax code being issued to Nucleus.
As the Investigator noted, in responding to an enquiry from Mr C about what had happened 
with his tax, EFS told him:
We have had a few of these recently causing problems. Its a fairly new system and so 
there have been a few miscalculated tax bills, I appreciate it doesnt help you.
The Investigator asked EFS to explain what it had meant. It told him:
when [it had] referred to a new system, [it was] talking about pensions freedoms, and that 
HMRC and the industry were getting to grips with the tax charges being made for any lump 
sum withdrawals rather than a new software being used.I accept Mr C isnt a tax expert, but I think its reasonable to expect that having received 
around £8,000 more than had been discussed with EFS, hed have been given cause to 
seek assurance that the transaction was correct. Everyone is ultimately responsible for their 
own tax affairs. I dont find EFS responsible for this matter.
The next problem to arise with Mr Cs pension occurred in March 2017. Nucleus made 
another gross payment of £27,000 into his account. The fault here was with EFS, which had 
failed to complete the paperwork properly in 2016 to show that the payment then was a one-
off. Instead its instruction had the effect of setting up an annual payment.
Mr C took the matter up with EFS as soon as he became aware of what had happened. It 
told him he had two options: (i) keep the money. But being aware it would be subject to 40% 
tax. And that hed only be able to receive tax relief on pension contributions up to £4,000 
from the tax year 2017/18; or (ii) return the payment to Nucleus and, subject to HMRC 
authority, pay this back into his pension.
In responding to the Investigators findings Mr C said:
You have told me that Ethos explained that there would be restrictions on payments into 
pensions caused by this mistake. You will see from the emails that I specifically asked about 
this point when making this decision, and their advisor stated that there would not be. I then 
replied that I would therefore keep it.
It did later turn out that they were wrong about this advice, as the Chancellor changed the 
rules retrospectively. Nonetheless, I based my decision upon their advice.
In responding to my provisional decision Mr C explained the impact on his tax liability of 
making further pension contributions:
On my current workplace pension the contributions are above £4000 annually. I therefore 
now have a 40% tax liability to pay on the contributions above £4000. My employer will not 
allow a reduction in pension contributions, only a complete stopping of all contributions. 
Typically this tax bill is around £500 annually.
My employer offers a salary sacrifice scheme, which enables my annual bonus (nearly 
£6000 in 2022) to be paid as a pension contribution. This means that the bonus is not taxed 
and the employer NI that would be paid is added to the bonus. I had always historically 
elected to use this option to boost my pension. I now cannot do this as it means a large tax 
bill as a result. I therefore can only take the bonus as cash and pay 40% tax and NI on it. I 
am therefore in 2022 alone over £3000 worse off because of this.
Firstly, I thought it might be helpful to set out a few facts about the MPAA regime. This was 
introduced by the Taxation of Pensions Act 2014, on 6 April 2015. It was designed to 
discourage individuals who sought to benefit from the flexible pension rules to avoid tax and 
potentially National Insurance Contributions by introducing a lower annual allowance for 
defined contribution/ money purchase contributions where flexibility has been accessed.
As Mr C exercised his right to take benefits from his pension in March 2016 that triggered 
the MPAA regulations for him. The annual allowance was £10,000 for tax years 2015/16 and 
2016/17. EFS says that the limit on pension contributions didnt have any effect on him when 
it gave advice about the first pension income payment because his combined employer and 
employee contributions were well within it.
In November 2016 the Government consulted on changing the limit to £4,000. Although 
legislation was delayed until November 2017, the measure was given retrospective effect from April 2017  so for the tax year from 2017/18 onwards. Those who had triggered the 
MPAA couldnt use carry forward to increase the MPAA limit in any tax year.
So, Id observe payments made from Mr Cs pension in March 2017 wouldve had no bearing 
on what contributions he couldve made into his pension in future. This was determined by 
MPAA regulations. And given hed already triggered the application of these in 2016 when 
he took his first pension income payment  that ship had sailed.
While, like many others, Mr Cs ability to make contributions to his pension were curtailed by 
changes to the MPAA from 2017/18, this wasnt something I can reasonably say EFS 
shouldve been aware of prior to Government consulting on the change in November 2016.
Considering the exchanges between the parties in April 2017 about the mistaken pension 
income payment, I think these can be read in different ways. After being told about his 
options, Mr C asks EFS at what point the new MPAA limit of £4,000 per annum kicks in. He 
asks, that as the incorrect payment had been made in March 2017, was that before the new 
rules applied? EFS responded that the new MPAA would be effective from 2017/18.
Mr C then probed further, asking that as the payment was made in March 2017, and if he 
didnt make further withdrawals, would he still be at the £10,000 limit (for the year 2016/17). 
EFS simply responded that this was correct. Mr C then said he would therefore keep the 
payment.
Theres a problem with these exchanges. I cant see a connection between the MPAA 
questions Mr C was posing and the decision he had to take about whether or not to retain 
the pension income payment. Thats because his opportunity to contribute any payments 
into his pension in 2016/17 (when the limit was £10,000) had already passed at this point. 
And any unused allowance couldnt be rolled forward into the next financial year.
I think the way EFS had initially set out the options available to Mr C in relation to the 2017 
pension payment was clear. But the questions he subsequently posed seem to indicate 
some confusion on his part. The onus here was on EFS to have got to the bottom of Mr Cs 
enquiries more effectively. And to have provided clear answers. Im not satisfied it did so.
Trying to unpick the potential impact of EFSs failings here is difficult. It had initially provided 
clear advice about what Mr Cs options were and the effect of these. Had it made clearer to 
him what was possible in terms of making future pension contributions, would he have 
changed his decision to take the payment? 
On balance, Ive not seen sufficient evidence he wouldve. Thats because by April 2017, the 
taking of benefits from his pension for the 2016/17 tax-year, was somewhat unconnected 
with his MPAA considerations for that period and beyond.
In February 2018 Mr C approached EFS about the situation he found himself in. As well as 
asking about what had happened in relation to the pension contributions he could make 
which would benefit from tax relief, he touched on the tax liability that had materialised from 
the payment made to him in 2016.
Mr C told this Service EFS said he should access funds from his Standard Life personal 
pension to cover the costs he faced. He says it told him to make the arrangements himself. 
He did this and says it continued the domino effect of poor advice leading to consequences 
he wasnt told about, including an impact on his tax and benefit position.
EFS has said it explained a range of options to Mr C. It says it told him he could take the 
benefits from his Standard Life pension himself or it could handle it for him. It said this was a discussion in an ad-hoc meeting. Unfortunately, the pattern from EFS of poorly documented 
interactions with Mr C was repeated and no file notes were made.
At least there are some brief emails between the parties about this matter. On 16 February 
2018 Mr C contacted EFS and said:
You have advised that there is not enough left in the draw-down pension to cover this [the 
HMRC tax demand related to his 2016 drawdown payment], and advised that I should shut 
down and draw my Standard Life pension in order to gain access to funds to pay this bill. 
This should cover it but my ability to replace pension funds is now compromised.
EFS responded in the following terms:
As stated you have a number of options:
1. Pay the tax bill from any savings
2. Come to an agreement with HMRC to pay it back monthly 
3. Take a withdrawal from your other funds Nucleus or Standard Life
What Ive seen doesnt constitute a recommendation from EFS. It was providing options 
about what he could do and it seems he selected a particular course of action. Mr C has told 
us he was grateful for the input from EFS. And it might be reasonable to assume that by this 
time hed have been much more alert to the potential tax consequences of what he decided 
to do.
There are various tax consequences of the actions Mr C decided to take with his Nucleus 
pension. I think its more likely than not EFS tried to make him aware of these, for example in 
relation to the tax that he should expect to be applied to his 2016 pension income payment. I 
think it also tried to help him understand the position with the MPAA regime, but Ive found 
weaknesses in its approach in 2017 to following up with him to make sure he understood the 
position properly.
While EFS accepts responsibility for Mr C receiving a mistaken pension income payment in 
March 2017, it did set out his options about what he could do, this included returning the 
payment to his pension. He chose not to go that route.
And while Mr C says EFS gave him advice to take his Standard Life pension benefits in 
2018, theres no evidence it gave him such a recommendation. Instead it set out some 
options he had for meeting a tax demand from HMRC, one of which was accessing pension 
benefits.
Its not clear to me that Mr C has or is facing a higher tax liability than he should be, given 
the decisions hes taken about his pensions. If he thinks otherwise then he needs to ask his 
accountant to investigate or contact HMRC with his concerns.
Overall, its not clear whether Mr C has lost or gained financially as a result of how he 
accessed his pension benefits. Its clear that by drawing on his pension savings he mayve 
lost out on some investment returns. His ability to benefit from tax relief on any pension 
contributions he made after 2015/16 has been limited. He has less provision for his 
retirement. And theres been an impact on his tax and benefit position.
On the other hand, hes had the benefit of capital earlier than he mightve  and the value of 
those funds when he took them wouldve been worth more than the same value at a future 
date. Hes used the money to invest in his home, which presumably is worth more now than 
before the works were carried out. And although he might not access the equity in the sort-run, that wealth will be available to him or his family in the future. Hes saved money on the 
interest payments he was making on any debt he paid down. He also had the option of 
investing any available funds in an Individual Savings Account (ISA), which is tax efficient 
when withdrawing funds.
Im also mindful the decisions Mr C was taking werent purely financial. For example, its 
difficult to put a value on providing a better home for his family and the use theyve had from 
that.
Im not satisfied that theres sufficient evidence or persuasive argument that had EFS got 
everything right in its service to Mr C that hed have taken a different course of action. Or 
that if he had, hed have been better off financially. For all these reasons Im not upholding 
Mr Cs main complaint.
But Ive some concerns about how EFS conducted its business with Mr C. Ive highlighted 
significant gaps in the documentation Id have expected it to have been able to produce. In 
particular in relation to the 2015 and 2016 transactions, and more generally. I wanted to see 
the research and rationale for the advice and recommendations it provided him, but this was 
lacking. Im unclear about the status of the interactions EFS had with Mr C. And I think he 
was as well.
I note EFS wasnt as fulsome as it couldve been in its final response letter to Mr C in 2020 
to acknowledge its mistake in completing the paperwork it sent to his pension provider in 
2016 to access his pension income. It had accepted internally it had been responsible for the 
consequential error in 2017 when he received a further income payment from Nucleus.
Im also not persuaded that in some of its interactions with Mr C that it was listening properly 
to him. Had it done so I think it wouldve provided him with clearer explanations when it 
seems from the audit trail he was confused about certain aspects of what was going on. In 
particular around the MPAA regime in 2017.
Putting things right
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Cs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of EFSs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Given the range of failings Ive identified, I think its understandable that Mr Cs confidence in 
the service EFS provided was undermined. I recognise he will be asking himself about 
whether he has taken the right decisions, led by his engagement with EFS. And whether he 
couldve been better off had he taken a different route.
As Ive set out, some of these matters are necessarily uncertain and difficult to quantify. But 
its clear theyve given rise to concerns Mr C has spent some time trying to get to the bottom 
of. In the circumstances Ive set out, its appropriate for Ethos Financial Solutions to pay Mr 
C an award for distress and inconvenience of £500. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. I require Ethos 
Financial Solutions to put matters right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman