DRN-3462565
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around August 2017, Mr D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr D decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ds behalf under section 75 of the Act. 
The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
The CMC also alleged that these misrepresentations had given rise to an unfair relationship 
between the contracting parties within the meaning of section 140A of the Act.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr D or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It pointed out that it would take the system 
23 years to pay for itself.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr D could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr D says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Ds testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr D, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ds version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.FIT payments and savings
Mr D has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and by the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by P as well as Mr Ds recollections of his meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr D could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr D could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £242.42, which results in an average monthly income of £20.20. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £95.98. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr D was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr D could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £287.97 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr D, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £795.35. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £95.98. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £93.80, but the difference  £2.18  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £95.98, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for the first seven years of the loan, meaning that the system would take over seven years to 
begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
(I would normally set out the table here, but the copy I have is not of good enough quality to 
do that in this case. However, I am satisfied that it is legible.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that Mr D wasnt told that the FIT 
payments would cover the loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr Ds version of 
events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process 
which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that 
he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr D that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £2.18 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson 
referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 9 years for the overall benefits that Mr D could expect to 
receive to match the cash price of the system.I think the 9-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on page 
2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that by during year 15 the overall benefits that Mr D could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £16,984.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr D that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 14 to 15 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 23 years for the system to pay for the 
loan. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr D.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,681 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ds FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,543 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr D hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr D could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr D entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr D to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman