DRN-1498548
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the amount Covea Insurance plc (Covea) valued his vehicle at when 
he made a claim on his car insurance policy.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my informal communication with both 
parties, which was in an attempt to resolve this complaint at the earliest possible stage 
(as our rules encourage). And this involved asking Covea to increase the settlement to 
reflect the market value of the car to be somewhere between £1,700 and £1,795, rather than 
its original valuation of £1,645. It agreed to a value of £1,750. But Mr M maintains that his 
car is worth far more  in the region of £8,500. But I disagree  and my reasons for this are 
as follows:
Mr M told us that hes invested a considerable amount into his car. But, from the 
information Ive been provided with, most of this expenditure appears to relate to the 
general maintenance of the car. And I think this would simply keep the car in retail 
condition, rather than increasing its value.
Ive also seen that the car had several modifications which Mr M may consider to 
have increased its value. Some of these are: the engine, the alloys, and a TV/video 
system. But it would appear that Covea wasnt made aware of some of these 
modifications, and it has said that it might not have provided cover had it known. Its 
opted not to pursue this, but I think its worth noting. Id also add that modifications 
dont always add as much to the value as the amount spent on purchasing them. 
I can see from the policy schedule that the insured value of the car is noted as 
£2,650. It may not have been Mr M that selected this amount, and this also isnt the 
definitive value of the car. But I think it wouldve given an indication that the policy 
might not pay out as much as Mr M wouldve hoped or expected it to in the event of 
the car being written off, which is what happened here. 
Mr M has provided a witness statement and car advertisements to support his view 
that the market value of the car is substantially more than Covea has said. I 
recognise hes gone to some lengths to provide this information, but I think a fair and 
impartial assessment of market value  said to be the cost of replacing the vehicle 
with one of the same make, model, specification, year, mileage and condition  
would be to consider what Mr M wouldve had to pay for a comparable vehicle at a 
reputable dealer. And generally, the valuations given in motor-trade guides are the 
most persuasive way of determining this. These are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices, and use advertised prices and 
auction prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been. Its for this 
reason that Ive considered the amounts shown in the motor-trade guides.
Covea provided figures from Glasss, CAP and Parkers. These were £1,610, £1,795 
and £1,535 respectively. From my own research, and that of our investigator, which 
also incorporated the Cazana trade guide, I think CAPs figure is the most reliable. 
This is because Glasss and Parkers figures were for cars from a different year, and 
Cazanas figure seemed to fluctuate depending on the date the guide was accessed. 
I found CAPs figure to be £1,700, and Covea had previously found it to be £1,795. 
Given this, I think a figure between these amounts would be fair. A key point to note 
here is that the figures are all relatively similar; from around £1,535 to £1,795. So Im 
persuaded that something in this region is a fair assessment of the cars market 
value, and theres been no indication from these guides that it should be closer to 
£8,500. 
Overall, I think Coveas assessment of the cars market value was slightly lower than it 
shouldve been. But given that I think the value is between £1,700 and £1,795, Im satisfied 
with the offer of £1,750 that Covea has now made. And I think this is a fair settlement of the 
complaint. 
  
Putting things right
I require Covea to:
increase the settlement to reflect the market value of £1,750 (an increase of £105); 
and
add 8% simple annual interest to the above-mentioned £105 from the date of the loss 
to the date of the settlement
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to 
redress this complaint as set out above. 
Mr M should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter. If, however, he 
rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain intact, itll be purely a matter 
between him and Covea as to whether the offer remains open for acceptance. Strictly 
speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman