DRN-3647488
The complaint
Miss S complains about an adverse report Home Retail Group Card Services Limited  
trading as Argos Card, who Ill call Argos, have made to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I dont think Argos have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Argos say they sent a statement reminder to Miss S on 28 December 2021. The statement 
explained that a minimum payment was due by 26 January 2022.
Its not disputed that the minimum payment wasnt paid, but Miss S says Argos were 
unreasonable to report it to the credit reference agencies as she had only missed the 
payment by a couple of weeks and was under pressure at work at the time.
Argos have a responsibility to report missed payments accurately and, as the payment was 
missed, I cant say theyve done anything wrong to report it.
I understand Miss S says she didnt receive the reminder email but, even if that was the 
case, it seems clear Miss S had access to the mobile app and could therefore view the 
statement. She therefore had means to identify what payment was required and when it 
needed to be paid.
Miss S says that Argos should have been more supportive, shes explained that she has a 
good repayment history, and she thinks Argos should have understood the pressure she 
was under.
Whilst Id expect Argos to be supportive if Miss S was experiencing financial difficulty, that 
doesnt mean they need to supress reports to the credit reference agencies that demonstrate 
whats happened on the account. Thats a responsibility Argos are obliged to maintain, and 
Im not persuaded they were wrong to do so here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman