DRN-1727813
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc won't refund £300 which was transferred 
from his account as a result of a scam. 
What happened
Mr J arranged in a private sale to buy a piece of electronic equipment from a stranger. They 
agreed a price of £300, and Mr J was to arrange an electronic payment, which he did from a 
branch of NatWest. The transfer was made to an account, the details of which Mr J provided 
to the bank. 
The item was never received by Mr J and he complained to the bank. He said he'd received 
reassurances that he would be protected if anything went wrong with the payment. 
NatWest didn't accept that it had said that, or that Mr J was protected in circumstances 
where the item wasn't delivered. The bank did however acknowledge some customer failings 
and paid Mr J £65 by way of compensation. 
Mr J didn't think this went far enough and referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at it but concluded that the bank hadn't treated Mr J unfairly. It wasn't 
responsible for the fact that the item he'd bought hadn't been delivered. There was nothing 
to suggest there was anything suspicious about the transaction. 
Mr J didn't accept the investigator's conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
As the investigator noted, the starting point here is that the bank's obligation was to follow Mr 
J's instruction to make the transfer. It could refuse to do so if there was a good reason - for 
example, if there were insufficient funds in the account or if it suspected fraud. I don't believe 
however there was anything here to suggest, either to the bank or to Mr J, that he wouldn't 
receive the item he'd paid for. He's described no suspicious circumstances. 
Mr J says however that he received assurances that he was protected if anything were to go 
wrong. The cashier who served him has no recollection of the transaction or therefore of any 
discussion along those lines. I do however think it unlikely that Mr J was given such an 
assurance, if only for the reason that a simple bank transfer of the type carried out here 
doesn't give protection against issues such as non-delivery of goods, delivery of the wrong 
goods or delivery of poor quality goods. There might be some protection if, for example, 
money were sent to the wrong account, but that's not what happened here. NatWest did contact the bank to which it sent the payment, but by the time it had done that 
the payment had been removed from the account. I have some sympathy for Mr J, but I don't 
believe I can reasonably require the bank to have done any more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mr J's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman