DRN-3989461
The complaint
Miss P complains that Aqua Financial Limited (AQUA) gave her unsuitable advice to 
consolidate her personal pension plans (PPP) into one plan held within a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP), and to take regular withdrawals from it to fund her retirement. 
Miss P complains that this advice has resulted in a significant reduction in the value of her 
fund which means it will be depleted earlier than she expected.
What happened
Miss P met with AQUA in November 2016 and again in February 2017 to discuss her 
retirement planning. Her circumstances at the time were recorded as follows:
She was 59 years old, divorced and lived in her own, unmortgaged home.
She described her health as good but had been diagnosed with two health 
conditions.
She was a director of two businesses but was taking no income.
She had savings of approximately £23,000 and was expecting an inheritance of 
approximately £90,000 (of which £30,000 was intended to be gifted to her daughter).
She had seven PPPs with a total value of £141,410.79.
Her financial and personal objectives were recorded as follows:
Fully retire by age 66 when her state pension would commence. This was forecast to 
be £8,474.32 per year.
Obtain pension income immediately but with the flexibility to turn this off or reduce 
should she return to work.
Maintain her current standard of living and generate a net annual income of £13,350.
To take her income in the most tax efficient way and she would consider withdrawing 
from her other savings and investments in addition to her pension funds.
She was willing to take a medium degree of risk with her investments (this was 
downgraded to cautious at the advisers recommendation).
AQUA advised Miss P to consolidate all seven of her PPPs into a SIPP, and to invest the 
funds in the City Asset Management Cautious discretionary managed portfolio. She was 
advised to take a lump sum withdrawal of £14,666.66 as her income for the tax year 
2016/17. This incorporated £11,000 income and £3,666.67 tax-free cash (TFC).
AQUA charged Miss P a total of £3,246.17 for the transfer advice. And the new arrangement 
had an ongoing annual advice and administration fee of 0.5% from AQUA, and an annual 
fund management and investment fee of 1.15%.
AQUA conducted annual reviews of Miss Ps circumstances in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. 
On each occasion she was advised to take the maximum income allowable from her pension 
fund, up to her personal tax allowance, supplemented by the available 25% TFC. She was 
advised to recycle part of this income (£2,888 net) back into her pension fund to take 
advantage of the tax relief this would attract.
On 21 April 2021 Miss P complained to AQUA. In summary, she said:
The information provided by AQUA at the meetings could easily be misconstrued, 
and it shouldve exercised a duty of care.
She was horrified to see that her pension fund, when combined with her state 
pension income, was due to run out when she was 75, and not well in to her 90s as 
shed been reassured.
AQUA thought the initial years of her retirement should be funded by her own means, 
which was contrary to their formal recommendation.
The plan wasnt clearly explained  AQUA didnt properly explain the significant 
impact her drawdowns would have on the funds longevity.
The suitability and performance of the investment fund selected at inception was 
never reviewed to ensure it remained suitable for her circumstances.
She had private savings which couldve been used to finance her income in the initial 
years instead of the pension fund being depleted, and the withdrawal strategy wasnt 
reviewed to ensure it remained suitable for her.
Because she thought her own savings and the legacy were not being accounted for 
in her retirement plan, shed spent some of the funds in ways she wouldnt have done 
if shed known it was needed to make her retirement plan work for the rest of her life.
AQUAs advice was preoccupied with tax-savings to the detriment of a consideration 
of her needs and circumstances.
Funding her income from pension drawdown had caused a dramatic depreciation of 
the fund, which was unnecessary given she had alternative savings and a legacy she 
wouldve been willing to use had the necessity been clearly communicated to her.
AQUA shouldve seen the detrimental effect this drawdown strategy was having on 
the long-term ability of the fund to grow and accumulate gains.
In its final response letter, AQUA upheld part of Miss Ps complaint. It said, in summary:
The drawdown withdrawals she had made had undoubtably had an impact on 
Miss Ps savings, but the initial recommendation was never for her to maintain these 
withdrawal levels as it had anticipated they would reduce significantly once her state 
pension payments commenced in 2023. This was discussed at all of her annual 
review meetings.
Her actual expenditure had been in line with the cash flow analysis it had carried out 
for the initial meeting.
AQUA had not been aware of any changes to her available sources of income or 
cash deposits so it assumed the expenditure figures Miss P had provided were 
accurate. It had no reason  not to assume her cash deposits remained in place and 
could be utilised as and when required.
The illustration shed received, sent by her SIPP provider, showed her pension fund 
was likely to be depleted by the time she reached 75 years old. But this was based 
on incorrect information and couldnt be relied upon as accurate. It had completed a new cashflow analysis using the information available to it, which 
showed that provided her withdrawals reduced to the previously agreed levels, and 
that if she utilises all her available sources of cash, her funds should not run out until 
she is well into her 90s.
Although the cashflow analysis was completed at the initial meeting, it was used to 
act as a guide for Miss P to show how her various assets could be used to fund her 
retirement. It was never intended to represent a definitive drawdown plan and AQUA 
apologised that it may have contributed to her concerns. 
AQUA agreed that, despite it not being part of the service agreement, it shouldve 
offered to update this cashflow plan at least once in the years following the initial 
recommendation.
Its role as Financial Adviser is to ensure that she was making the most of all 
available opportunities, including tax savings, and the benefits of this approach 
simply couldnt be ignored. The advice to recycle some of her drawdown withdrawals 
meant her pension fund had gained additional tax relief of £720 per year.
She had no source of income, so in order to furnish her needs she had to make 
withdrawals from somewhere. If AQUA had known Miss P was concerned about 
excess withdrawals and the longevity of her assets, it wouldve reviewed the 
strategy.
It disagreed that its advice was inappropriate and that as she had no other source of income, 
a withdrawal of some kind from her pension wouldve taken place regardless, and therefore 
a reduction in its value was inevitable. It apologised for the concerns she had about its 
advice and service and acknowledged that the worry and confusion shed experienced 
couldve been avoided had it completed an additional cashflow review since the initial 
advice. To reflect this it offered Miss P £500 compensation. It also offered to conduct a full 
cashflow meeting at no cost to establish a truly accurate picture of her current position. And 
then to conduct a further free meeting as soon as her state pension payments commenced.
But Miss P didnt accept AQUAs offer and brought her complaint to our service. She said 
that AQUA had recommended she make drawdown withdrawals from her pension fund to 
provide income from age 60 to state pension age, when she had sufficient savings to fund 
these years herself. As a result, the value of her pension fund has been depleted and she 
has lost out on considerable compound growth. 
But our investigator didnt think Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought that as 
Miss P had no other forms of income, the advice to consolidate her plans into one personal 
pension, and to take a flexible drawdown income from it, wasnt unsuitable. He 
acknowledged that she had  the alternative of using her cash reserves in the early years and 
then going into drawdown later, but whether the cash or pension was used initially, one of 
them would start to be depleted. And as her attitude to risk (ATR) was cautious it was 
unlikely  there would be significant growth in her pension fund above what was likely from 
her cash investments. And he thought the value of Miss Ps pension fund had benefitted 
from the tax relief gained through recycling part of her annual withdrawals.
Our investigator also thought that going into flexible drawdown wasnt possible with her 
original PPPs, so in order to take the income she required, she had no alternative but to 
transfer, and the simplicity of the one arrangement was advantageous for her. He didnt think 
the increase in overall charges in the first year, from 1.23% to 1.97%, was significant and it 
reflected that Miss Ps pension fund was now being actively managed by a discretionary 
fund manager (DFM).
He thought that AQUA had overall done enough to treat Miss P fairly. Despite its admission that it wouldve helped her understanding of her circumstances by conducting a further 
cashflow analysis, he thought that AQUAs understanding of her circumstances meant it had 
taken reasonable steps to ensure it had a sufficient understanding of her needs.
But Miss P didnt agree. She said that her actual complaint hadnt been considered. What 
she was complaining about wasnt the initial advice to consolidate her pensions into the 
SIPP, but that AQUA had advised her to go into drawdown at a level which, combined with 
her state pension, meant shed be provided for well into her 90s. But shed calculated it was 
now unlikely to last her beyond the age of 75. She had not asked AQUA to manage any of 
her other assets, including tax advice, and had only asked advice about her pension 
provision.
Another investigator reviewed what Miss P had said, but he didnt think it made a difference 
to the outcome previously reached. He explained that whilst taking drawdown from her 
pension would have a negative effect on its fund value, her cash deposits would remain 
unaffected. And conversely, had she utilised her cash reserves instead of her pension fund, 
these would have become depleted and her pension remained unaffected. This meant the 
benefits of either choice would only become apparent once investment returns became 
clear. He  said it was reasonable advice to say that she should, where possible, retain an 
amount in cash to cover short term emergencies. He also thought that AQUA, in giving Miss 
P tax efficiency advice, was following standard good practice.
Again, Miss P didnt agree. She said AQUA had told her that her pension, when combined 
with her state pension from age 66, would provide for her well into her 90s. She was not told 
of the detrimental effect drawdowns would have, and AQUA reassured her at each annual 
review that her pension was performing well and everything was on track to meet her needs. 
She has since discovered the horrendous effect the drawdowns have had. She did not think 
pensions and cash should be considered in the same light, as her pension wouldve gained 
from capital growth, and cash suffers from reduced purchasing power year-on-year 
notwithstanding the interest earned.
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to make a decision.
On 13 February 2023 I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts on the 
merits of the complaint. I agreed that I thought the advice given to Miss P by AQUA to 
consolidate her PPPs into a SIPP and a flexible drawdown arrangement was suitable, but I 
thought the DFM arrangement, and the associated additional fees were unnecessary. And I 
set out my initial thoughts regarding my proposed redress methodology and compensation 
for Miss P. In my provisional decision I said:
When assessing the suitability of the advice given to Miss P by AQUA, I have to consider 
it in light of the information available when the advice was given, and not by using 
hindsight. Ive also looked at it in the context of the rules and guidance in existence at the 
time.
Within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R, part of the 
Conduct of Business rules, required a regulated business to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time AQUA advised Miss P 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance was to ensure that 
regulated businesses, like AQUA, took reasonable steps to provide advice that was 
suitable for their clients needs and to ensure they werent inappropriately exposed to a 
level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile.COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I consider when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), published a checklist 
for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four key issues it 
thought should be focused on:
Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, 
a guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put 
in place.
The advice to switch
When considering a case where someone has switched their pension funds to a new 
provider, the consumers circumstances at the time must be considered. And in order to 
make the advice to switch suitable, the switch would need to be in Miss Ps best 
interests. And in order to be in her best interests, the new arrangement would need to be 
demonstrably better, in terms of the benefits it provided or was reasonably likely to 
provide, including potential growth, to that available through her current arrangement.
From what I can see, at the time of the advice process in March 2017, Miss P had no 
source of income. And she wasnt likely to have any paid employment in the foreseeable 
future, so either her cash reserves, her pension funds, or a combination of the two 
needed to be used to provide her a sufficient income in retirement.
It was clear that given the retirement income she told AQUA that she wanted to achieve 
 an approximate net annual income of £13,000  it wouldnt have taken very long to 
deplete her cash savings had they been used first to provide an income. So, she 
wouldve had to make drawdowns on her pension. And I can see from the fact find and 
recommendation that Miss P wanted flexibility in the level of income she was to receive. 
She wanted to be able to change it in response to future events, and an annuity, with its 
fixed income, didnt meet this objective. And having considered the PPPs that she held, 
none of them offered the option of taking a flexible drawdown  she wouldve had to 
withdraw the whole value, take 25% of it as TFC, and be liable for a tax charge on the 
remainder. 
So, I think a flexible drawdown arrangement was suitable as it provided her the flexibility 
to decide how much, if any, income to take, and also allowed her access to 25% of the 
withdrawal as TFC. But AQUA only made reference in its recommendation to one 
alternative arrangement  the transfer to the SIPP, with the flexi-access drawdown 
arrangement, and to invest her funds in the City Asset Management Cautious 
discretionary managed portfolio under a DFM. It had a paragraph about why it had 
discounted the option of Miss P taking a Stakeholder pension and part of it stated that: many [stakeholder pensions] still do not offer the full flexibilities offered 
through the new Pensions Freedom rules and the funds available for investment tend to 
be limited.
But there was no comparison of the recommended SIPP and fund charges with what 
wouldve been available within a Stakeholder Pension. And this was necessary to enable 
Miss P to make an informed choice, not only about the strategy, but where her pension 
was being held, and how much this would cost.
However, despite Miss P not being given this information, I dont consider it had a 
detrimental effect on her eventual choice to go into the SIPP. I say this because, having 
looked at the SIPP fees, I cant see that they were significantly more than she wouldve 
paid in a Stakeholder pension. And equivalent funds, suitable for her ATR, wouldve 
been available in both. So even if shed had this information, I dont think it wouldve 
made any difference to Miss P. The SIPP that was recommended was suitable for her as 
it wasnt more expensive than an equivalent Stakeholder arrangement and it met her 
objectives.
The drawdown strategy
Miss P says AQUAs recommendation to take her initial retirement income by making 
regular drawdowns was unsuitable, and she shouldve been advised to take her income 
from her existing savings until she was 66. She could then commence a drawdown 
arrangement to supplement her state pension.
Whilst I can understand Miss Ps position, I dont think the advice given by AQUA was 
unsuitable. It is without doubt that Miss P needed an income, as she had none at the 
time and needed to pay for her essential outgoings as well as maintain an adequate 
standard of living. So Im satisfied that, given the value of her savings and pension fund, 
she most likely will have to utilise both over her remaining years.  
At the time of the transfer the level of her savings had grown by about £40,000 due to 
the inheritance shed received. If shed left her PPP intact within the SIPP and used her 
cash reserves to support her and provide her income, I think it more likely than not that 
her savings wouldve been almost, if not completely depleted by the time she was 
eligible for the state pension. And although the value of her PPP may have increased to 
reflect market growth, this was not guaranteed. She wouldve been left in an uncertain 
position in retirement, with no cash reserves to respond to any unexpected emergencies. 
By following AQUAs advice, I can see she has a smaller pension fund, but I can also 
see shes retained a comfortable level of savings which are available should they be 
needed to supplement her PPP and state pension incomes.
The fund choice and DFM
Whilst I do not agree that the advice to consolidate her seven PPPs into one within a 
SIPP was unsuitable, I do have concerns about the fund choice. I can see it was 
diverse and it matched her ATR and financial objectives, but I need to decide if it was 
suitable or necessary to place Miss P in a DFM service. And to do this I have taken into 
account the regulators July 2012 finalised guidance on centralised investment 
propositions, which says the decision whether to use a DFM or not is likely to need to at 
least take into account the following issues:
Likely cost: Do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performanceSize of fund under management
Investors knowledge and experience
Level of disclosure.
And having considered these I cant see that the required cautious fund rating 
warranted the regular input of a DFM. I think it likely there were alternative funds 
available within the SIPP which wouldve equally matched Miss Ps objectives and 
ATR without the additional DFM and investment management fees. And these fees 
were taken from the fund, depleting its value and so reducing its potential growth.
The funds were to be held in relatively low-risk assets with reduced volatility and 
modest projected growth. And as there was an on-going adviser fee charged it would 
be expected that AQUA would regularly review the investments in full itself, and this 
wouldnt represent value for money in combination with the DFM fee.
The fund was modest in value, and the regulator said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make, and would likely benefit from the regular 
reports on their investments. And I cant see that this wouldve applied to Miss P. I 
cant see she was experienced in pensions and investments, and it has been 
documented by AQUA that her only interest in the fund was seeing its overall value. 
This couldve been provided by AQUA during its annual reviews and I dont think it 
warranted the additional input from a DFM. 
Whilst AQUA have listed the specific advantages of using a DFM service, I dont think 
these were particularly applicable to Miss P. Had it been explained that there were 
available fund choices which would match her financial objectives and ATR, and 
which would cost less, I dont think it likely she would have wanted to use a DFM. She 
was looking to invest her pension fund in a relatively low risk fund, had little to no 
experience in investments and was willing to take very little risk. I cant see that Mrs B 
wouldve benefitted more from the services of a DFM than she wouldve from ongoing 
advice from AQUA. 
As a result of all of the above, I agree that AQUAs recommendation to switch the funds 
Miss P held into the SIPP was suitable, but Im not satisfied that the recommended DFM 
managed fund was necessary nor that it justified the additional fees Miss P was charged. I 
cant say for certain what she would have done, but I think that had Miss P been given 
suitable advice, the option she would most likely have selected was to invest her pension 
funds in a standard cautious fund, broadly similar to the one she was placed in by AQUA, 
but without the services of a DFM.
But whilst I dont think its fair that Miss P was placed in a fund with DFM and investment 
management charges, I do think it is likely she wouldve chosen to retain an element of 
ongoing advice from AQUA. I can see the annual reviews were important to her, she had 
an ongoing relationship with them, and it was likely that the source of income, and 
amount, was going to need to remain flexible. So as ongoing advice was likely to have 
been needed by her, I think the initial 0.5% annual advice fee, which increased to 0.7% 
charged by AQUA is fair. As Im also satisfied that the SIPP was suitable, I think the 0.3% 
SIPP fee is also fair. 
I note that AQUA has agreed that it couldve done more to prevent the distress caused to 
Miss P by offering an additional cashflow analysis. Although this wasnt actually required 
as part of her client agreement, this is a fair position to take as AQUA has already 
acknowledged it should have offered Miss J an additional analysis at least once. Aqua has offered Miss P £500 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. Taking 
everything into account, I consider this fairly recognises the significant worry caused by 
not offering to conduct a cashflow analysis sooner.  As I said above, AQUA offered to 
undertake two further cashflow analysis exercises for Miss P, the second of which to 
coincide with the commencement of her state pension payments. This is a fair offer, and it 
is up to Miss P whether she takes this up.
In my provisional decision I set out the methodology I thought AQUA should use to fairly 
calculate if Miss P had suffered any financial loss. I invited both Miss P and AQUA to 
respond and submit any further additional information or arguments they wished me to 
consider. 
Miss P responded and, in summary said she no longer wished for AQUA to be involved in 
her finances. And she said it was unclear if AQUA would only be responsible for the cost of 
transferring within the current SIPP platform, or whether AQUA would be required to cover 
the cost of the new financial advice she would require when transferring to a completely new 
arrangement. AQUA responded to this point by saying it would only be prepared to facilitate 
a transfer within the existing SIPP platform, and following this, its involvement as Miss Ps 
financial advisers would cease if that is what she wanted. 
Neither Miss P nor AQUA disagreed with the loss calculation methodology that Id proposed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addition, Ive reconsidered the evidence in response to Miss Ps and AQUAs submission. 
As neither party have objected to the loss calculation methodology I proposed, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. I will set this out below.
As regards Miss Ps wish for AQUA to cover the cost of any professional financial advice she 
would need to facilitate the transfer of her funds into a completely new arrangement, I dont 
think this would be a fair outcome. Ill explain why.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the advice AQUA gave Miss P to consolidate her 
existing PPPs into a SIPP and enter into a flexible drawdown arrangement to provide her 
retirement income was suitable. And Im also satisfied that the type of fund it placed her into 
(a cautious portfolio) was suitable. What I thought was unsuitable was that the fund she was 
placed in was managed by a DFM, and so her funds wouldve been subjected to additional 
depletion by the unnecessary DFM fees. So to prevent Miss P having to pay any further 
DFM fees I thought it fair that she should be allowed, if she wished, to transfer her pension 
funds into a non-DFM managed fund of her choice, within her existing SIPP platform. This is 
something that AQUA have agreed to do. Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable 
outcome, and along with the loss calculation below, will put Miss P back, as closely as 
possible, to the position she shouldve been in had she been suitably advised. Should 
Miss P wish to take additional financial advice with a view to transferring into a completely 
new personal pension arrangement then this would be a matter for her.
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. I take the view that Miss P would 
have transferred into the SIPP. However, I cannot be certain what fund she would have 
invested her pension in, other than taking the view that it would have been cautious, and broadly similar to the fund she was advised to take within the SIPP. 
However I do think the reduction in fund value caused by the DFM and investment 
management fees needs to be taken into account. So, in order to put Miss P back as 
closely as possible to where she wouldve been had she been suitably advised, I think 
AQUA should undertake a loss calculation.
What must AQUA do?
To compensate Miss P fairly, AQUA must:
Compare the performance of Miss Ps pension with that of the benchmark below, 
taking into account if there were no 0.3% DFM fee and the variable third party fees 
and charges imposed. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable.
If AQUA is unable to pay the compensation into Miss P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Miss P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation 
is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Miss P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Miss P would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
AQUA should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Miss P £500, if it hasnt already done so, to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience Miss P has been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AQUA deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss P how much has been taken off. AQUA should give Miss P a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss P asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
City Asset 
Management 
- Cautious 
Discretionary 
ManagedStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, AQUA 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum that Miss P paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if AQUA totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss P wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.I consider that Miss P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Miss P into that position. It does not mean that Miss P would have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Miss P could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
As Ive said above, as I dont think she shouldve had her funds placed in a DFM managed 
fund, she should be given the opportunity, should she wish to take it up, of transferring her 
funds from the present DFM arrangement into any non-DFM managed fund of her choice 
within her existing SIPP platform. And if there are any transfer fees associated with this 
switch, these should be covered by AQUA. This takes into account any unnecessary fees 
that she would incur going forward.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Aqua Financial Limited should settle the 
complaint in the manner directed, and pay the amount calculated as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman