DRN-4220809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only 
summarise the key events here. 
Mr and Mrs B purchased a vehicle which was of unsatisfactory quality. They attempted to 
reject it under the Consumer Rights Act, but the dealer refused. So in September 2020, they 
made a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Aviva accepted the claim and appointed a panel firm of solicitors  who Ill refer to as L  to 
act on the case. L were satisfied the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success and 
entered into negotiations with the other side. 
An offer was received from the dealers solicitors to buy back the vehicle, but it was for less 
than the amount Mr and Mrs B paid for it. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the offer and 
wanted their additional losses included in the claim, but L said the offer was reasonable and 
should be accepted. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with L, so they obtained a legal opinion from a solicitor of their 
own choice. Their solicitor believed there were prospects of obtaining a higher award and 
they were critical of Ls slow progress of the claim and failure to issue court proceedings. 
They recommended that a Part 36 offer is made.
As there were two conflicting legal opinions on how the claim should be progressed and the 
prospects of beating the dealers settlement offer, it was agreed that a review would be 
conducted in line with the policy terms. Aviva provided Mr and Mrs B with its preferred 
barrister and confirmed that L would draft the instructions, which Mr and Mrs B could review.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this was in line with what the policy proposed, as it said the lawyer 
conducting the review would be jointly chosen. They were disappointed that Aviva had only 
put forward one option, which was a barrister that had already been involved in the case. 
They were also unhappy that L would be providing instructions. 
Aviva and Mr and Mrs B did subsequently agree to a barrister. But Mr and Mrs B were 
unhappy that Aviva were more concerned over the cost of counsel rather than whether they 
were suitably qualified to advise on the specific area of law. 
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint. And when Aviva didnt uphold it, they brought it to our 
service. Our Investigator felt that much of Mr and Mrs Bs dissatisfaction arose from the 
solicitors conduct  which we cant look into. She was satisfied that Aviva has acted in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions and didnt think it needed to do anything 
more. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They accept that we cant look into the solicitors handling of the 
claim but say their complaint centres around Avivas failure to follow the policy terms in 
regard to the review, and the amount of time it took to take this action. 
Im aware that matters have moved on a great deal since the complaint was referred to our 
service, including the receipt of counsels review. But my assessment is limited to events 
that took place up until Avivas final response letter was issued on 20 December 2022. If Mr 
and Mrs B are unhappy with the events that took place since that date, theyll need to raise a 
new complaint. And once they have Avivas final response  or if eight weeks passes without 
one  Mr and Mrs B can bring that complaint to our service for investigation.  
The complaint was passed to me to decide, and I issued the following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
For clarity, I agree with our Investigator that much of Mr and Mrs Bs dissatisfaction stems 
from Ls conduct and their legal advice. Aviva isnt responsible for the actions of its panel 
solicitors, nor is it involved in the day-to-day legal handling of a claim. And its entitled to rely 
on the legal advice its provided with. So any complaint about the solicitors needs to be 
raised to L directly and their regulatory body.
After Mr and Mrs B provided a legal assessment from their own solicitors which contradicted 
the advice of L, Aviva was required by the policy to obtain a review by a third lawyer which 
was jointly chosen. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy says:
We have confidence in the opinion of our appointed lawyer and rely on this when 
deciding if we should continue to pay the costs and expenses towards your claim. 
If you do not agree with our lawyers opinion and you find a different lawyer, at your 
own cost, or you already have a lawyer who supports your view, then we will be 
happy to offer a review of the case. The opinion of your chosen lawyer must be 
based on the same information regarding the claim that you provided to us. 
The lawyer conducting the review will be chosen jointly by you and us. If we cannot 
agree on who this lawyer should be then we will ask a relevant law society to appoint 
one. The reviewing lawyer will assess the case and we will abide by their decision. 
We will pay for the cost of this review and should they decide in your favour we will 
also pay any cost that you incurred for your chosen lawyers second opinion. 
This review and any resulting decision will not affect your rights to make a complaint 
as detailed in the complaints procedure section.
I can see that Aviva initially proposed a barrister from their preferred chambers and asked 
Mr and Mrs B whether they were happy with that choice. I can understand why Mr and Mrs B 
were disappointed they werent given a wider selection of options, but Im satisfied Aviva 
invited them to say if they were unhappy with the choice. And when Mr and Mrs B did so, 
alternative options were explored. 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Aviva selected a barrister that had already provided advice on 
the case. But I dont think that necessarily means the barrister wouldnt be suitable to conduct the review. Theyre an independent lawyer and given that their previous advice was 
supportive of the claim, I cant see any reason why Aviva shouldve concluded that they were 
inappropriate. 
However, Mr and Mrs B had a right to disagree with Avivas selection and as the policy terms 
say it should be a jointly chosen lawyer, Aviva were required to consider Mr and Mrs Bs 
proposed counsel. But looking at the subsequent correspondence, it appears Aviva were 
particularly insistent that a barrister from their preferred chambers was used, and Mr and 
Mrs Bs suggested barristers were dismissed solely due to the cost. 
Aviva are responsible for keeping claims costs low and this is of benefit to Mr and Mrs B to 
ensure their limit of indemnity isnt exhausted before the claim is brought to a conclusion. 
That said, there isnt anything in the policy terms that says the costs of the review is limited 
to what Aviva would pay its preferred chambers. So its unclear why it rejected Mr and Mrs 
Bs proposed barrister solely because the cost was over £1,500. In one circumstance, Aviva 
rejected the barrister because their fee was £1,500 plus VAT rather than £1,500 inclusive of 
VAT  an additional £300. This seems wholly unreasonable and unnecessarily restrictive.
As it was clear Aviva and Mr and Mrs B could not agree on a barrister, Aviva shouldve 
asked the relevant law society to appoint one in line with the policy terms. I cant see that it 
did so.
As such, Im inclined to uphold this part of the complaint. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B were apprehensive about L drafting the instructions, but 
its standard practice for an insurer to ask their panel solicitor to instruct counsel. Mr and Mrs 
B were given the option to review the instructions and contribute to them, so I dont think 
there was any detriment by L being involved in this process. And I understand Aviva 
subsequently agreed to cover the cost of Mr and Mrs Bs chosen solicitor to review the 
instructions too.
I do agree with Mr and Mrs B that Aviva took too long to take this action under the policy. I 
can see that Mr and Mrs B provided Aviva with their chosen solicitors conflicting legal 
opinion in April 2022. But it wasnt until August 2022 that Aviva proposed a barrister to 
conduct the review. 
Given that the policy sets out the process of what will happen when a customer disagrees 
with the legal opinion, and Mr and Mrs B had complied with that process by funding their 
own legal opinion, I wouldve expected Aviva to take the next steps promptly and without 
delay. Its unclear why it took that long for Aviva to initiate the review process and to start 
engaging with Mr and Mrs B about a jointly chosen lawyer.
In fact, by the time the final response letter was issued in December 2022, a barrister still 
hadnt been instructed to conduct the review. Whilst I cant fairly say there were avoidable 
delays by Aviva for that whole period of time, I am satisfied that Avivas continuous referrals 
back to their Underwriters for advice at almost every stage contributed to the amount of time 
this case has taken to progress. Aviva is aware that Mr and Mrs B are in an ongoing dispute 
with the dealer and an offer has been made. It could be detrimental to a claim to go silent on 
a defendant for a long period of time and Im persuaded this couldve been handled more 
efficiently by the handlers involved. 
As such, Im inclined to uphold this part of the complaint. 
For the failings in Avivas service that Ive identified above, Im inclined to award 
compensation of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs B.Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva provided the following comments:
Whilst Aviva agrees the process took longer than it wouldve liked, this wasnt solely 
due to its actions. Mr and Mrs B raised multiple issues over the draft instructions to 
counsel which had to be referred back to L on numerous occasions which contributed 
to the delays in progressing matters.
It was informed the quote for counsel was £1,000 - £1,500 plus VAT which is a 
potential difference of £600. Given the cost difference equates to potentially one third 
of the opinion, its not unreasonable for it to negotiate and suggest £1,500 inclusive 
of VAT to preserve the limit of indemnity. 
The compensation awarded is on the high side.
Mr and Mrs B provided the following comments:
Theyve lost many months whilst theyve had to argue that Aviva should do what the 
policy says in a fair and unbiased way. Consequently, theyve been unable to take 
steps to settle matters which has resulted in additional lost interest on their 
considerable capital outlay and at the same time, the cost of replacing the vehicle 
has risen.
The courts use interest to compensate for delays in settlement, and they suggest a 
rate of 4% which Mr and Mrs B says amounts to £4.93 per day. They believe Aviva 
has caused six months worth of delays, so compensation should be awarded at 
£867.68.
Counsels advice has been received and is supportive of their claim, however Aviva 
is yet to discuss repayment of their legal fees in obtaining the second opinion and the 
advice on counsels instructions. In addition, it has refused to reimburse them for an 
experts report, despite this being an integral part of the evidence provided for 
counsels review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, the time it took to initiate and complete the review 
process was too long. Ive already explained that I cant fairly say Aviva are responsible for 
all the delays during that period of time, nor that all delays were avoidable. 
That said, it was responsible for some; there were continuous referrals to Underwriters to 
make decisions that couldve been made by claims handlers, and there were unnecessary 
refusals of suitable counsel because of minimal differences in costs (which I calculate to be 
an additional £300 out of the indemnity limit). For this, Mr and Mrs B should be 
compensated.
Mr and Mrs B want me to compensate them by awarding interest on their financial losses for 
each day of delays. But as Ive said, Im not holding Aviva responsible for all delays. And I 
dont have any evidence that their claim will settle for less than it would have had it been progressed sooner. So Im not persuaded that theres a financial loss to Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim, and that I can fairly hold Aviva liable for it.
Having thought about the points raised by both sides, I remain satisfied that £400 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair in the circumstances. 
In regard to Mr and Mrs Bs comments about the present position of their case, Im not 
considering these as part of this complaint. Should they be unhappy about the events 
subsequent to 20 December 2022, theyll need to raise a separate complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and directing Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay compensation of £400. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman