DRN-3972916
The complaint
Miss G complains that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid her enough for her car when it 
was written off and she claimed on her car insurance policy.
As Miss G is the main policyholder, for ease I will just refer to her in my decision. 
What happened
Miss G was involved in an accident where her car was hit from behind. She claimed on her 
policy and Ageas accepted the claim. 
Ageas said the car was a total loss and offered Miss G £2,866. Miss G didnt accept this 
amount. She said that based on advertised prices for similar cars it would cost her more to 
replace it. She also mentioned that the car had recently had over £1,000 of refurbishment 
work done to it and she would have rated its condition as above average. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Gs complaint but thought Ageas had offered a fair value 
for the car, as it had made an offer at the top of the range the trade guides were providing. 
Miss G did not accept the investigators opinion and the case has passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The terms and conditions of Miss Gs policy say that Ageas can decide to pay an 
amount to replace what is damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing. It also 
sets out that it will not pay more than the market value of the car at the time of loss.
Market value is defined in the policy as  The cost of replacing the car with another 
of the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car 
immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we check to see that the insurers valuation 
is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do 
this we tend to use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre 
based on nationwide research of sale prices. 
Ageas has offered £2,866 for the car less the policy excess. The three motor trade 
guides that we use value the car between £2,866 and £2,750. As Ageas offer is at 
the top of this range, Im satisfied it is a fair and reasonable valuation.
I understand Miss Gs disappointment that her car was in an accident so soon after 
she had paid out money to refurbish it. However, these works wont always 
automatically add value to a car, or does it mean in a case such as this, an insurer 
should pay more than the recognised market value. I recognise the car maybe more 
desirable to a purchaser due to its condition and I think this is reflected by the fact 
Ageas has offered a value at the top of the range. 
I understand Miss Gs point about advertised prices, however Im not persuaded that 
this means using the trade guides is an unfair or unreasonable way of valuing 
Miss Gs car. I say this because the guides use a range of sources to provide the 
values. I can also see from the data in these valuations that the guides have taken 
into account advertised prices at the time of loss.  So, while Miss G has provided 
some adverts, the guides have also taken into account adverts when producing a 
value. It therefore follows that Im not persuaded to depart from the guides in this 
particular case.  
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss G and Mr Hs complaint against Ageas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman