DRN-3215259
The complaint
Mr P complains that when Astrenska Insurance Limited repaired a leak from his boiler they
didnt replace his electronic scale inhibitor.
What happened
Mr P has heating, plumbing, wiring and emergency cover for his boiler underwritten by
Astrenska. On 24 March 2021 Mr P contacted Astrenska as hed discovered a leak from a
pipe connected to his boiler. Mr P has told us that the pipe seemed to have started leaking
during the night, water was gushing from the pipe and the floor was flooded. Mr P was able
to stop any further water leaking by turning off his water supply.
Astrenska sent an engineer to Mr Ps home on 24 March 2021. He found that the lime
beater, an electronic scale inhibitor, fitted to one of the pipes connected to Mr Ps boiler had
split and this was the cause of the leak. The engineer removed the damaged lime beater and
replaced it with a piece of flexi piping. He was then able to turn Mr Ps water supply back on.
Mr P was told hed need to get a plumber to replace the lime beater. Mr P believed that
Astrenska would contact him to arrange for a plumber to attend and fit a new lime beater.
Shortly after the engineers visit Mr P complained to Astrenska about the engineer leaving
his property without completing the job, as he hadnt replaced the lime beater. Over the
following days, he raised a number of further complaints, including: -
He hadnt heard about a further visit to replace the lime beater.
He had concerns about the professionalism of the engineer who attended his
property.
Astrenska responded to Mr Ps complaint on 12 April 2021, but they didnt uphold it. They
said their contractor attended in a timely manner and left his system in good working order.
At this point Mr P told Astrenska he hadnt received his policy. So they sent a copy by email.
And they said the policy made it clear that he wasnt covered for the part that needed to be
replaced.
He was referred to the following policy wording: -
What is not covered under section 1:
The cost of refilling your system with any additive (e.g. corrosion inhibitors)
The cost to service or replace MagnaClean Magnetic Filters.
Regarding his complaint that the engineer left without completing the job they said he was a
boiler engineer, not a plumber. He resolved the leak, restored the boiler to working order and
advised a plumber would be needed. They apologised that the engineer hadnt provided the
correct information and had told Mr P a plumber would attend to replace the lime beater. But
said that engineers dont have details of customers cover.
Mr P replied to Astrenska saying that neither of these exclusions applied to as his boiler
hadnt had a Magna Clean Magnetic filter. Astrenska maintained that the replacement of the
lime beater wasnt covered by Mr Ps policy. So Mr P complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
She said Mr P was covered under his policy for repairing the leak from his boiler, which
Astrenska did. And replacement of the lime beater is considered general maintenance under
the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy, so its not covered and if Mr P wants this replaced
hell need to arrange this himself.
Mr P didnt except our investigators opinion.
After our investigator provided her opinion, we asked Astrenska for their comments on
the exclusion they relied on to decline Mr Ps claim, as this refers to a specific type of filter.
And this isnt the filter Mr P had on his boiler.
They replied saying that Mr Ps policy covers a temporary fix to restore the facilities at his
property. And their engineer removed the split lime beater and replaced it with a 15mm flexi
pipe as a temporary measure, telling Mr P that it would need to be fixed permanently.
They also said that replacement of the lime beater wouldnt be covered as the policy
excludes general maintenance, which a replacement would fall under.
The case then came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 November 2021. In it I said: -
Im going to comment first on Mr Ps complaint that the engineer who attended his property
didnt carry out a professional job. Mr Ps complaint is about the engineer not replacing the
lime beater. Not about any failure stop the leak and restore his water supply, which was the
job he was sent to do. And I havent seen anything that suggests the engineer didnt
complete this job professionally.
Astrenska have acknowledged that when their engineer replaced Mr Ps damaged lime
beater with flexi pipe, he was told that a plumber would be sent to replace the lime beater. In
their final response letter, they apologised for Mr P being given the wrong information. And
they said this situation arose as engineers dont have details of customers policies.
When Mr Ps claim was declined, he was told that this was because his policy didnt cover
the replacement of filters. And he was referred to a specific exclusion in his policy which
relates to MagnaClean Magnetic Filters.
It was only when we contacted Astrenska, pointing out that Mr P hadnt had this type of filter
fitted to his boiler, that they said the damaged lime beater wouldnt be covered by his policy,
as it doesnt cover general maintenance. And they referred to a list of what isnt covered
under Section 1 of the policy  Heating Protect. This provides a list of exclusions including: -
We will not cover
Items that are designed to be replaced regularly when using the boiler, such as
nozzles, fuses and filters, etc.
Im persuaded that replacement of the lime beater isnt covered by Mr Ps policy, as it would
be regarded as general maintenance. So Im not going to say they should replace his lime
beater.But I think Mr P has received poor customer service from Astrenska as a result of how his
claim has been handled. He was initially given incorrect information by the engineer, who
told him a plumber would be sent to replace his lime beater. And when he contacted
Astrenska regarding this he was given an incorrect reason for his claim being declined. So
its taken longer than it needed to for this matter to be resolved.
As a result of this Mr P has suffered distress and inconvenience. And to compensate him for
this I require Astrenska to pay him £150 compensation.
So my provisional decision was that while I didnt think Astrenska should replace Mr Ps lime 
beater, I required them to pay him compensation for the poor customer service hed 
received.
Neither party have responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any response to my provisional decision, I dont intend to 
change my opinion on this complaint.
So while I dont require Astrenska to replace Mr Ps lime beater, theyve provided him with 
poor customer service in relation to his complaint. As a result of this hes suffered distress 
and inconvenience. For which I require Astrenska to pay him £150 compensation.
My final decision
So my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Astrenska Insurance Limited. 
And to put things right I require them to pay him £150, for the distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered, as a result of the poor customer service he received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman