DRN-2588788
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited has settled her 
motor insurance claim, after she was in an accident and her vehicle was written off.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss M says she disclosed her motoring conviction when she applied for the 
insurance. However Advantage has no record of this  and it contacted the third-
party company Miss M used to obtain its quote and they also stated no convictions 
were declared on application.
Miss Ms paperwork clearly shows no convictions were declared, but despite 
receiving this paperwork and being instructed to check it, she didnt contact 
Advantage to amend this error.
As Miss Ms motoring conviction wasnt declared, she didnt pay the correct premium 
for her cover. The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 
sets out how a claim should be dealt with in a situation where a consumer 
misrepresented the risk  and so wouldve been covered but at a greater cost. I can 
see Advantage has dealt with her claim in this way, so I think its fair its only paid 
91% of the market value of the vehicle, as Miss M only paid 91% of the premium she 
should have.
Miss Ms terms make it clear she will have to pay an excess in the event of a claim. 
So Im also satisfied its fair for Advantage to reduce the market value it paid Miss M 
by her excess amount. This seems more sensible than Advantage paying Miss M the 
full amount she was owed before her excess, with her then having to pay the amount 
of the excess back.
The terms and conditions Miss M agreed to set out how Advantage will calculate the 
value of her vehicle in the event of an accident. I can see it has done the calculations 
in line with these terms  and our service has checked the market value on three 
well-known motor-trade guides. Based on these checks we can see Advantage has 
paid within the market value range these suggest for Miss Ms vehicle. Its also 
provided us with adverts for the same vehicle Miss M had within this price range.
I accept Miss M had owned the vehicle a very short time before her accident. But I 
cant ask Advantage to pay more than the vehicles market value  as per the policy 
terms. Unfortunately the price someone may pay for a vehicle isnt always the same 
as its true market value. But the terms of Miss Ms policy set out how Advantage will 
calculate the market value and Im satisfied its done this.
I understand Miss M took our fully comprehensive cover, so she expected the 
insurance to cover all her costs in the event of an accident. But Im afraid this isnt 
exactly how this insurance works. Fully comprehensive refers to the insureds 
vehicle and the insureds liability to others being covered by the policy, for what the 
terms set out  not full cover for everything. Unfortunately, as the price Miss M paid 
for her vehicle was more than what motor guides deemed the market value to be at 
the time of the accident, which her terms rely on, Advantage isnt required to match 
what she paid. So I do understand her frustration at receiving less than whats 
outstanding on her finance for the vehicle, but I dont agree Advantage is required to 
pay her more due to this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman