DRN-3035477
Complaint
Mrs and Mr M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued to apply 
interest, fees and charges to their overdraft when they were in financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs and Mr M have also made separate complaints about other credit Lloyds provided to 
them. But those matters are being looked at separately and wont be considered in this 
decision. 
Mrs and Mr M complained to Lloyds in 2019. Lloyds agreed it should have done more to 
help Mrs and Mr M and agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to their 
account from November 2017 onwards. Mrs and Mr M remained dissatisfied and referred 
their complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and told Mrs and Mr M that what Lloyds had 
already done to put things right for them was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
their complaint. They disagreed and the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs and Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of their 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Lloyds has agreed that it should have realised that Mrs and Mr M may have been in financial 
difficulty by November 2017. And it refunded the interest, fees and charges from this period 
onwards. 
However, Mrs and Mr M believe that Lloyds should do more, although its not entirely clear 
what more they want Lloyds to do. Nonetheless, Ive looked at Mrs and Mr Ms overdraft 
usage over the years with a view to seeing whether Lloyds ought to have realised they may 
have been in financial difficulty earlier and taken corrective action in relation to the overdraft. 
And having done so, Im not persuaded that Lloyds ought to have taken corrective action in 
relation to Mrs and Mr Ms overdraft prior to November 2017. 
I accept that Mrs and Mr M were using regularly using their overdraft and that this in itself 
could be considered a sign of potential difficulty. But while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mrs and Mr Ms expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions being 
made from the account too. Equally the amount being credited to Mrs and Mr Ms account 
each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of them seeing a credit 
balance at any stage either.
Im also mindful that Mrs and Mr M managed to clear their overdraft balance on a number of 
occasions. I know Mrs and Mr M will say this was usually the case because Lloyds provided 
them with other credit, which theyve also said was unaffordable and should never have 
been provided in the first place. But those matters are being considered separately and what 
Im looking at in this case is whether Lloyds ought to have realised Mrs and Mr M had no 
reasonable prospect of exiting their overdraft prior to November 2017. Given what Ive said 
about their account activity, I cant reasonably reach this conclusion.
As this is the case, I dont think that I can reasonably find that Lloyds ought reasonably to 
have realised that Mrs and Mr M had no reasonable prospect of exiting their overdraft, or 
that they had become unsustainable for them prior to November 2017. And, in these 
circumstances, I dont think that Lloyds unfairly failed to take corrective action in relation to 
Mrs and Mr Ms overdraft  especially in light of the consequences of it stepping in and doing 
so - prior to this date either.    
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already done to put things right 
for Mrs and Mr M  refunding the interest, fees and charges paid from November 2017  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to 
put things right for Mrs and Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of their 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman