DRN-2866048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold a travel insurance policy which is provided as a benefit of a bank 
account. The policy is provided by UKI. 
Mr and Mrs M booked flights for their family to travel to a country, which Ill call P, in 
January 2020. Mr and Mrs M were due to travel on 2 August 2020. 
In July 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) was advising against all but essential travel to P 
due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mr and Mrs M decided not to travel and 
made a claim for the cost of their flights under their policy with UKI. 
Mr and Mrs M said they couldnt obtain a refund from the airline if they cancelled their flights, 
so they rescheduled them instead. However, they said they had no intention of using the 
rescheduled flights due to their personal circumstances. 
UKI said Mr and Mrs Ms claim wasnt covered under their policy, as they had no financial 
loss because their flights had been rearranged.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to the attention of our service. They 
subsequently cancelled their rescheduled flights and were unable to obtain a refund from 
their airline (other than for some government taxes). UKI has been provided with evidence of 
this cancellation. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim. UKI didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) say insurers 
should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs Ms complaint. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that UKI was prepared to accept that a claim for cancelling 
a holiday due to changes in FCDO advice would be treated as covered under Mr and Mrs 
Ms policy. UKI told Mr M during a telephone conversation in July 2020 that such a claim 
would be covered, and UKIs claims notes indicate that a claim by Mr M arising from a 
change in FCDO advice would be covered under his policy. UKI also subsequently sent a 
mailing to Mr M stating that hed be covered for cancelling a trip due to the FCDO advising 
against travel due to Covid-19, as long as the advice wasnt in place when he booked his trip 
or when his cover started. For the avoidance of doubt, based on the specific facts of this 
individual case, I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to now treat Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim arising from changes in FCDO advice as being covered under the cancellation section 
of their policy.
What remains in dispute is whether Mr and Mrs M can fairly be considered as having 
recovered their financial loss from elsewhere. This is because their policy with UKI, in 
common with most if not all travel insurance policies on the market, only covers costs which 
the policyholder cannot get back from elsewhere. 
There are certain circumstances where, if a policyholder is offered a voucher or the option to 
re-book flights, accommodation or excursions, Id consider that the policyholder should fairly 
be considered as having already recovered their costs. This means Id make a finding that 
the policyholder had no outstanding financial loss which Id expect the insurer to pay. 
However, I dont think thats the case here.  
When Mr and Mrs M made the decision not to travel in July 2020, their airline presented 
them with two options. One was to cancel their flights and receive no refund (other than 
some government taxes). The second was to reschedule their flights. Mr and Mrs M were 
reluctant to potentially lose all their money at that point, so they made the choice to 
reschedule the flights instead. Mr M phoned UKI for advice before deciding which option to 
take and was given information which I think was confusing and which I think led him to 
make this decision. Mr M clearly told UKI at that point that, due to his and Mrs Ms personal 
circumstances, they wouldnt be using any rescheduled flights. If Mr M had chosen to cancel 
the flights (as I think he would have been entitled to do at that time) instead, it appears UKI 
would have accepted his claim. 
Even leaving aside the information which Mr M was given during his telephone call with UKI, 
his rescheduled flights were subsequently cancelled on 8 February 2021. On this date the 
FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to P. Mr and Mrs M didnt use their 
rescheduled flights and they have provided evidence that they havent received a refund 
from the airline (other than for some government taxes). So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M 
have demonstrated that they have a financial loss. And, I dont think Mr and Mrs M can 
reasonably recover this financial loss from elsewhere. 
UKI has suggested that Mr and Mrs M should contact the airline again to see if they are 
prepared to offer them a further option to re-book. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
in the circumstances to expect Mr and Mrs M to do this. Mr and Mrs M have already 
provided evidence that their flights werent used and were non-refundable. 
UKI has also said it could support Mr and Mrs M in taking legal action. I also dont think this 
is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. I am not aware of any legal obligation on the 
airline to offer any further option to re-book to Mr and Mrs M in these circumstances. And, 
even if there was such a legal obligation on their airline, FCA guidance clearly indicates that 
insurers shouldnt require policyholders to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their 
losses. The FCA has explicitly stated that it would generally see it as unreasonable to expect 
a consumer to go to court to recover their losses. So, I dont think this is a fair position for 
UKI to take. 
Overall, this means Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M have demonstrated that they have an 
irrecoverable financial loss. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M have waiting for some time to have this matter resolved, and they were inconvenienced and frustrated by UKIs responses to their claim. I acknowledge 
that the information given by UKI during its call with Mr M wasnt particularly helpful. 
However, overall, I think asking UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim is a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case, so I wont be asking UKI to also pay 
compensation. 
Putting things right
UKI must pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim under the cancellation section of their policy, subject to 
any applicable policy excesses and/or policy limits. 
UKI should add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per year from the date the claim 
was made until the date the settlement is paid1.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I direct U K Insurance 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 