DRN-4140832
The complaint
Mr B complains about a defective car he bought with credit provided by BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMW FS).
What happened
In May 2022 Mr B bought a car for £24,700. After paying a deposit and part-exchanging his 
car, the balance was financed with a hire purchase agreement financed by BMW FS, to be 
repaid over 48 months. However, shortly afterwards Mr B complained about various 
cosmetic issues with the car. He had the car inspected by an independent dealer, who 
confirmed that it should never have been sold in that condition, and quoted him around 
£4,300 to repair it.
In September 2022, BMW FS accepted that the car had been defective at the point of sale 
and agreed to let Mr B reject the car, refund the deposit and part-exchange, and settle the 
agreement in full. BMW FS also agreed to refund the monthly payments that Mr B had paid, 
subject to a deduction to reflect his use of the car. And it also offered to refund the cost of 
Mr Bs decals (£196.80) if he provided a receipt for the work hed had done.
Mr B did not accept that proposed solution. He said that fair redress would be to provide him 
with a car similar to the one he had acquired (without defects), of similar age and mileage, or 
alternatively to give him enough money to buy one. But BMW FS did not agree to do that. It 
said the dealership did not have a like-for-like replacement in stock, and in any event the 
usual compensation for a complaint such as this one is to put the complainant back in the 
financial position which they were in at the point of sale, which its offer would achieve. So 
Mr B brought this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, and he broadly agreed with BMW FSs 
approach. He recommended that BMW FS also pay interest on the refunds at 8% a year, 
and also pay Mr B £150 for his trouble. He thought that a fair deduction for Mr Bs use of the 
car was 20% of the monthly payments. He did not think that BMW FS had to substitute a 
similar car, or pay for Mr B to get one from elsewhere.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that the approach adopted by BMW FS and by my colleague is in 
line with this services usual approach in such cases. I can readily appreciate why Mr B has 
argued that it would be fair to put him in the position he would have been in if he had been 
sold a car without defects instead. But our long-established approach, which is based on the 
provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, is to put consumers back in the position they 
were in immediately before the sale of the defective goods and of the related finance 
agreement. The approach endorsed by the investigator achieves that.
Mr B has complained that BMW FSs offer to take the car back felt more like a gesture of 
good will than a real recognition of his legal right to reject the car. However, I dont think it 
matters precisely why BMW FS agreed to do that, because the end result is the same in 
either case, so I do not propose to say any more about that.
Mr B has complained or asked about a number of other issues too,1 but I think that the real 
issue in this case is what the remedy should be for the sale of a defective car, and so I have 
focused on that.
If none of this had happened, Mr B would still have had to spend money on insuring and 
maintaining another car, so I dont think it would be fair to require BMW FS to reimburse him 
for insuring and maintaining this car. I think the same thing about the cost incurred in driving 
the car home from the dealership. (I will require BMW FS to arrange to collect the car at no 
cost to Mr B though, as that is part of the usual remedy in similar cases.)
I realise that Mr B only drove the car very sparingly once he got it home. For this reason, he 
has asked that there be no deduction for use from the refunds of the monthly payments. 
However, the car was not undriveable, and so I think that our investigators recommendation 
of a refund of 80% of the monthly payments is in line with our usual approach.
Mr B has challenged the figure given for the part-exchange of his previous car, which is 
relevant to the compensation in this case because it is to be refunded. The investigator 
found that this figure was £15,250, based on the hire purchase agreement and the sales 
invoice. But Mr B says it was actually £15,500, based on some other documents, including 
an earlier invoice and quote and some emails.
I have compared all of these documents with each other, and it does appear that there were 
some discussions about the part-exchange value prior to the sale. However, I think that the 
later documents supersede the earlier ones. More importantly, the executed hire purchase 
agreement signed by Mr C supersedes the documents generated in the course of pre-sale 
negotiations, because it is the best evidence of how much he actually paid.
It is not in dispute that Mr C paid a deposit of £500. The agreement he signed, dated 9 May 
2022, says there was an advance payment of £15,750, and I take this to be the total of both 
the deposit and the part exchange figure, so the part exchange figure was £15,250. The 
same figures also appear in the pre-credit information, of the same date and also signed by 
Mr C. Both of these documents also give the cash price of the car as £24,700.
Ive seen an earlier document, dated 3 May, which gives a figure of £16,000 which is 
described as initial rentals/deposit, which I agree probably means that a part-exchange 
figure of £15,500 was being quoted. But that does not mean that this was the figure which 
was ultimately settled on. Also, I note that this document gives a cash price for the car of 
£25,450, which is £750 higher than the price Mr C was ultimately charged for it. So when the 
difference between part-exchange values is off-set against that, he was actually still £500 
better off. This might explain the email he sent on 29 April saying thank you for the extra 
£500. So it looks as though he probably did get what he bargained for, albeit that the figures 
were not set out in the way that he had expected.
I am reinforced in that view by the fact that BMW FSs ledger shows that payments of £500 
and £15,250 were made on 9 May 2022.
1 One of these issues is about Mr B not being told how much commission the dealership made on the 
sale. He has been told that this is not part of this complaint, and so my decision does not address that 
point; if he wishes to pursue it then it will be treated as a separate complaint.For all of these reasons, I am satisfied that the total advance payment made on 9 May was 
£15,750, and so when this same amount is refunded to him, he will not be out of pocket by 
£250.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
to:
Arrange to collect the car and return it to the dealership at no cost to Mr B;
End the hire purchase agreement with nothing left to pay;
Refund to Mr B the advance payment (deposit and part exchange) of £15,750;
Refund to Mr B 80% of the monthly payments he has made;
Pay Mr B simple interest on all of the above refunds at the rate of 8% a year from the 
date each amount was paid by him to the date of settlement;
On production of a relevant receipt by Mr B, pay him £196.80 for the decals;
Pay Mr B £150 for his trouble.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman