DRN-2518747
The complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) continued to 
charge an annual fee even after card acceptance in the area where he lived had been 
substantially reduced. Mr P also complains about poor service.
What happened
Mr P had a gold chargecard with AESEL. The card was an international currency card and 
the currency which applied to the card was Euro (€). Mr P says the card entitled him to 
participate in AESELs reward programme.
Mr P says he contacted AESEL after he noticed his card was being declined at various 
outlets in the area where he lived. He says AESEL initially thought his card might be faulty, 
so it issued him with a replacement card. But the replacement card was still not being 
accepted. So, he contacted AESEL again in February 2019.
Mr P says AESEL explained that its relationship with a partner bank in the country where he 
lived had ended. He says AESEL told him it was trying to get a new partner bank and 
acceptance levels for the card would increase. He provided it with a list of merchants who 
had stopped accepting the card. He says AESEL offered to refund €55 (fifty five Euros) 
which was half of the annual card fee which had been charged in August 2018.
Mr P says AESEL didnt refund his account as it had promised. And, he says the annual fee 
was charged to his account again in August 2019. He contacted AESEL about this in 
September 2019. Mr P says he told AESEL he didnt want to renew his card because he 
couldnt use it at the locations where he had previously been able to make payments with it.
He says AESEL told him not to pay the annual fee in the meantime and it would call him 
back. He didnt receive a callback.
Mr P phoned AESEL again. It said it couldnt refund his annual fee. So, Mr P complained to 
AESEL.
AESEL investigated his complaint. It said the decision about whether to accept an AESEL 
card was a matter for each individual merchant. Its team was constantly working to try to 
expand the network of merchants where the card was accepted but it wasnt responsible for 
decisions made by merchants. It accepted it hadnt called him back and said it would credit 
5000 points to his membership rewards.
Mr P didnt agree. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint.
His initial view was that AESEL hadnt done anything wrong because even though it hadnt 
phoned Mr P back as it had promised to do, it was likely Mr P would not have cancelled his 
card. AESEL said its offer to refund €55 was still open. Our investigator thought this was fair 
and reasonable. But he also thought AESEL shouldve offered Mr P either 5000 points or the 
cash equivalent of this.
Mr P didnt agree. He said hed made it clear to AESEL he didnt want to renew the card if he 
couldnt use it. Our investigator asked AESEL to send him copies of the recordings for the 
calls in September 2019. AESEL no longer had these call recordings. So, our investigator 
looked again at the notes of the calls which AESEL had made. And, based on that he 
changed his view. He said AESEL should refund €55 and the full renewal fee charged in 
2019  making a refund of €165 in total.
AESEL didnt accept our investigators view. It said Mr P had turned down the option to 
cancel the card at least twice. And, it said hed paid the renewal fee and used the card after 
it was renewed. It said Mr P wanted to use the card without having to pay for it. So, our 
investigator considered everything again.
Having done so, he thought it was unlikely Mr P wouldve cancelled his relationship with 
AESEL. He said Mr P had indicated he was going to use the card when he was travelling, 
and he had used the card in this way. He thought it was likely AESEL wouldve offered him a 
refund of half of both his renewal fees for 2018 and 2019. So, he thought it should pay him 
€110 in total.
He also said AESEL had given him 5000 points as compensation for not having called him 
back. He thought he shouldve been offered the cash equivalent of this. But, having 
considered the matter he thought no further compensation should be paid because an 
apology wouldve been sufficient for not calling Mr P back.
AESEL didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for this account. These make clear that if a 
retailer doesnt accept the card then AESEL isnt responsible for any loss. So, there 
is no guarantee that a retailer will accept the card.
It is the case that Mr P had been using the card in the country where he lived and this 
only changed because AESELs relationship with its partner bank ended. This meant 
a significant reduction in the number of places where Mr P could use his card.
In these circumstances, I think it was fair and reasonable for AESEL to offer to refund 
Mr P half of his annual fee when he contacted it in February 2019. The fee had been 
charged in August 2018 and Mr P raised the issue of acceptance six months later in 
February 2019.
AESEL has confirmed this offer is still open to Mr P should he wish to accept it. 
AESEL also told Mr P it was working with a new partner and was trying to extend the 
merchants where the card would be accepted in the country where he lived.
Mr P next contacted AESEL in September 2019. This was after his annual fee had 
been charged to his account. It was applied on 24 August 2019.
AESEL hasnt been able to provide copies of its call recordings. So, Ive looked at the 
notes it recorded on its systems.
On 27 February 2019 the notes stateGWG (goodwill gesture) 50 Euro no longer able to use card since Dec 
2018
On 4 September 2019 the notes state
CM [customer] not willing to pay membership fee due to acceptance issue, 
escalating.
On 18 September 2019 the notes state:
5/09/19 .Discussed half fee refund, not what clients wants, he adv will use 
his card in Oct/Nov when travelling outside {country}, we discussed possibility 
of canx [cancellation] and offered half fee, not wanted, I promised call back 
9/9/19 this did not happen. [xx] called in today, apologised for lack of call, 
again offered half fee, wanted escalation
It appears that when AESEL was investigating the complaint it listened to the call 
dated 5 September 2019. There are notes about what was said. At the end of the call 
the notes record:
(AESEL adviser) tells CM (customer) to not pay fees and he will make sure 
that it doesnt affect him in a detrimental way, whilst we are looking into the 
issue.
AESEL says all references to the half fee refund on the 18 September call referred to 
the previous offer which is recorded in the 27 February note. It says it was not 
offering a further refund.
It is unfortunate that the call recordings are not available as they may have put the 
matter beyond doubt. In these circumstances I have to base my decision on what I 
think is more likely to be the case taking into account any other evidence that is 
available.
It is not in dispute that AESEL offered to refund at least €50. It now agrees the refund 
offer was half of the annual fee charged in August 2018 - which would be €55. And it 
says this offer is still open.
Ive then thought about whether it offered to refund the fee charged in August 2019. 
Having done so, I dont think it did offer to do that. It seems from reading the notes 
for the call on 5 September 2019 Mr P told AESEL it hadnt refunded half of the 2018 
annual fee as it said it was going to do. There was a further discussion about 
acceptance levels for the card. And, AESEL told Mr P not to pay fees whilst it was 
looking into the matter. The 2019 fee had already been deducted on 24 August 2019. 
And, Mr P paid it the following month.
Ive noted what AESEL told Mr P on 5 September. It told him not to pay any fees 
whilst we are looking into the issue. I think thats what it did do in the period before 
Mr P contacted it again on 18 September. From reading the notes relating to the call 
on 18 September I think AESEL had looked into the issue and had decided to offer to 
make good on its promise, made in February 2019, to refund €55 Euros - which it 
hadnt followed through on. And it suggested Mr P could cancel the card. I dont think 
it offered any further refund of fees.
Mr P says he wouldve cancelled the card if hed been told that the acceptance levels 
werent going to improve. Ive thought about what Mr P has said.During the call on 5 September 2019 the notes state Mr P raised the topic of 
acceptance levels in the country where he lived. He said it wasnt fair he should have 
to pay the annual fee when he couldnt use the card locally. In response AESELs 
adviser said the issues about the annual fee and acceptance levels had been 
brought up at several meetings with the marketing team, but it hadnt been 
progressed. So, I think Mr P was aware that, although AESEL was trying to improve 
the acceptance levels, there was no guarantee they would improve or that fees would 
be refunded whilst this continued.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions. These say Mr P can cancel the card 
agreement at any time and if he does that, hes entitled to a pro rata refund of his 
annual fee. Alternatively, he can ask for his card agreement to be changed to a basic 
card. If he does that, he doesnt have to pay any annual fee, but he wouldnt be 
entitled to the reward programme. In either case he would have ninety days from the 
date he cancels the agreement, or changes to a basic card, to redeem any reward 
points he has.
Mr P didnt pursue any of these options. And, having thought about everything here, I 
think Mr P wanted to keep the card, with full membership benefits, until such times as 
the acceptance levels improved - but he didnt think he should pay an annual fee 
whilst this was going on. AESEL wasnt offering that option. And, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to expect it to offer that option especially when it is clear Mr P 
intended to, and did, use his card after August 2019, when he was travelling. He also 
continued to be eligible to earn points under the reward programme.
Ive also considered the fact that AESEL didnt call Mr P back when it promised to. It 
has accepted it didnt do this. But I dont think that its failure to call him back after the 
call on 5 September 2019, wouldve changed the outcome here. And, he did speak to 
AESEL a few days later. It apologised to him and credited his reward account with 
5000 points. I think that was fair and reasonable. So, I wouldnt expect it to do 
anything more.
Based on what Ive said above, Im currently not minded to uphold this complaint. 
AESEL has said its offer of €55 to settle the complaint is still open.
So, my provisional decision is that I intend to ask it to pay €55 to Mr P.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about American Express Services Europe Limited.
American Express Services Europe Limited has already made an offer to pay €55 to 
settle the complaint and my provisional decision is that this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my provisional decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited 
should pay €55.
AESEL accepted my provisional decision. Mr P hasnt responded or provided any further 
comments.
So, I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AESEL has accepted my provisional decision and Mr P hasnt provided any response.
So, having considered everything here, I have not changed my view as set out in the 
provisional decision. And, for the reasons set out there, Im still of the view that in order to 
resolve this dispute AESEL should pay Mr P €55 - which is the amount its already offered to 
pay him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
American Express Services Europe Limited has already made an offer to pay €55 to settle 
the complaint and my decision is that this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited should pay Mr P €55.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman