DRN-2955885
The complaint
Miss T complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG have declined a personal injury claim
she made under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
The sad facts of this case are not in dispute and are well known to the parties so there is no
need for me to repeat the details here. In summary Miss T was the victim of a traumatic
incident that occurred whilst she was on holiday. There has been a previous complaint
regarding the same incident but this complaint concerns a claim made under the policy for
personal injury.
URV didnt meet her claim  it said that it wasnt covered under any section of her policy.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. Miss T
remained unhappy so the matter has been passed to me to decide. For the avoidance of
doubt I should say that I cant comment on any matters previously decided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss T that I have taken into account her representations and completely
understand that she has been left very traumatised by the incident abroad. However I am not
upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant guidance provides that URV should not unreasonably reject a claim. With this
in mind Ive considered the terms of the policy Miss T held.
The policy does have a benefit for Accidental death and disability. It is not necessary for
me to determine whether any injury was caused by accident as the disability benefit is
payable in certain specific circumstances only, these are:
death (limited to £1,000 when you are under 18 at the time of incident).
total and permanent loss of sight in one or both eyes, or total loss by physical
            severance or total and permanent loss of use of one or both hands or feet.
permanent and total disablement from engaging in paid employments or paid
           occupations of any and every kind all occurring within 12 months of the event
           happening.
Miss T feels that PTSD is a form of permanent disablement, and I accept that this can be so.
However the policy requires that this has prevented the policyholder from engaging in paid
employment of any kind. Miss T has said that she has needed to take time off work, which
means she is able to engage in paid employment. So as none of the specific circumstances 
are made out in Miss Ts case, I cant say that URV was obliged to make any payment under
this section of the policy.
URV did also explain why her claim didnt fall under the personal liability section either. That
provides cover for events that Miss T is legally liable to pay following an incident caused
directly by her. Thats not the case here, but in any event injury or illness suffered by the
policyholder is excluded from this head of cover.
I understand that this violent incident has had a major effect on Miss Ts mental health which
has necessitated her taking time off work and left her very traumatised. But URV is not
required to give Miss T compensation for personal injury or to consider making a payment
outside the remit of the policy. It is required to consider her claim and not to unreasonably
reject it. I recognise that Miss T will be disappointed by my decision but as this claim does
not fall under any of the policy sections, I cant say that URV has treated Miss T unfairly by
declining it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman