DRN-3822877
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance ( West 
Bay) settled a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was unfortunately involved in a car accident on 06 October 2021. Mr C decided against 
making a claim on his policy. However, the third party driver he collided with made a claim 
for damage that was caused to his car and said Mr C should accept liability.
My understanding is the accident happened as the third-party driver was travelling around a 
mini roundabout from Mr Cs right, when he proceeded to join the roundabout, and collided 
with the near-side front of the other drivers car.
After investigating the matter, West Bay accepted full liability for the claim. They said they 
reached this decision as (based on the Highway Code) Mr C should reasonably have given 
way to the right upon approaching the roundabout. And If hed done so, this may have 
prevented the collision. Mr C said this wasnt fair as it was dark at the time and there wasnt 
any give way markings for him to follow. He said the claim should be settled on a 50/50 
basis as the other driver should accept at least some responsibility for the collision.
West Bays claim handler then checked the location of the accident online and said the 
images suggested there were clear give way road markings, but in any event said Mr C had 
a legal obligation to give way to the right at every roundabout. They also said the third party 
had a witness who supported their version of events. So, there were no grounds for 
concluding the liability decision should be changed. 
Mr C remained unhappy and raised a complaint with our service. He said the liability 
decision was unfair and the third party had claimed for excessive damage.
An investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He acknowledged Mr Cs 
strength of feeling but didnt think West Bay had done anything wrong. 
Mr C disagreed, so Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't my place to decide who is actually liable for the accident at the heart of this complaint, 
that would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether West Bay have 
applied the terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and whether they have dealt with 
the claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between West Bay and Mr C - the policy's terms and 
conditions. Under the terms of the policy, West Bay can independently decide whether to 
defend a claim or settle it. This might mean West Bay makes a decision that Mr C disagrees 
with, as has happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor insurance 
policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an insurer to 
reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence available before making their 
decision on liability. 
Based on the circumstances, I dont think West Bay acted unreasonably by accepting liability 
for the claim. As regardless of whether there were clear road markings, Mr C was required to 
give way to the right and check his path was clear as he approached the roundabout. If hed 
done this, I dont think it's unreasonable to conclude he may have seen the third partys car 
and prevented the collision. I note Mr C feels the other driver should also have given way, 
however, as it appears their path was clear from the right, they werent prevented from 
continuing their intended journey. So, Im satisfied West Bay acted fairly by accepting liability 
and settling the claim to prevent any additional costs. 
Prior to settling the matter, the third partys insurer provided West Bay with an engineers 
report which showed the damage they were claiming for. They also shared details of how 
their costs had been calculated and why the car had been declared a total loss. I think West 
Bay acted reasonably by relying on this evidence and I see no reasonable grounds for 
concluding the settlement costs were excessive.
Overall, Im satisfied West Bay acted reasonably. As they carried out a fair investigation and 
considered all the circumstances and available evidence, before accepting liability and 
settling the claim. So, I dont require them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman