DRN-2168838
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal London Mutual Society (Royal London) provided him and his ex-
partner with misleading projections about the proposed with-profits investment in 1999. His 
partner took out the five plans in her name but he paid the premiums and they were 
assigned to him in 2004.
What happened
 
In his complaint Mr S said:
The advisor did not discuss his attitude to risk or explain the risks posed by this 
product
No fact find was produced
The fees were not explained, including their impact on returns
The advisor promised that he would get back between three and four times the 
amount invested
Following a lengthy consideration as to whether Mr S was an eligible complainant, an 
investigator at this service was satisfied that Mr S was eligible to bring a complaint as he 
was now the owner of the plans. But he didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to 
uphold the complaint.
While he accepted that Mr S had probably been at the meeting (which Royal London had 
disputed), the evidence indicated that it was his ex-partner who had been given the advice 
and that this was based on her circumstances and objectives. Therefore, it was not 
appropriate to assess whether the policy recommendations were suitable for him.
He did not believe the documentation had been misleading and was satisfied that it made 
clear that while this was a low-risk product the projected returns and bonuses were not 
guaranteed (beyond the minimum assured).
Given the prevailing economic conditions since 1999 he was not surprised by the reduced 
projections now showing on Mr Ss latest forecasts  and didnt believe this indicated that 
Royal London had provided misleading figures in the first place or had done anything wrong.
Mr S did not agree, and said:
He was very unhappy with the investigators view and feel we should look into the 
advisor who sold these policies as he has been misleading people about the returns 
for years
We should investigate whether there have been other complaints against this 
individual
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
These investments were taken out by Mr Ss ex-partner and the advisor did carry out an 
assessment of her needs and objectives. I have seen no evidence to indicate he ought to 
have taken into account Mr Ss circumstances as well (or instead).
So I do not believe it is appropriate to consider whether these investments were suitable for 
Mr S or whether he was fully informed about their nature, the fees, risks involved etc. Nor is 
it appropriate to try and investigate whether the advisor misled his ex-partner about the likely 
returns  as he claims. The advice was given to her and therefore the question of whether 
he was misled doesnt arise.
As the owner of these plans since 2001 he is entitled to expect that any documentation, 
either the original paperwork or subsequent documents, is fair and accurate. This includes 
providing a clear explanation as to what returns are guaranteed and what are simply current 
projections (largely based on previous growth).
I am satisfied that the documentation I have seen is not misleading. So since Mr S became 
the legal owner of these plans I have seen no evidence to suggest that Royal London has 
given him a false assurance about likely returns.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman