DRN-2221866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M hold a joint account with Clydesdale. Their complaint is that Clydesdale 
Bank Plc wont refund their losses following a scam.
What happened
Mrs M received a call from scammers pretending to be from Clydesdale. Mrs M said the 
number looked like Clydesdales telephone number  this is known as spoofing. The caller 
said there was fraudulent activity, originating abroad, on the joint account and funds from the 
needed to be transferred to a holding account to prevent the fraud. 
Mrs M said she has experience in business and its always on her mind to ensure calls are 
genuine. She said as well as the number spoofing there were other things that convinced her 
the call was from her genuine bank: 
- the caller had an accent which fitted the location of the head office for her bank;
- the caller kept going silent  saying he was watching the accounts and could see 
there were continuous attempts to hack into it; and
- the caller kept stressing the urgency for her to act, saying the account would be 
empty if Mrs M didnt take immediate action
Mrs M transferred £25k followed by £10k from the joint account she held with her husband to 
a limited company account (also held at Clydesdale,) that she is a director of - thinking it 
would be safe. But the caller said that all Clydesdale accounts were affected. Mrs M then set 
up a new payee on the limited company account and sent £25k on to the holding account  
it later transpired Mrs M had transferred money to fraudsters. The scam was exposed before 
Mrs M transferred any further funds. 
Mrs Ms complaint points that I can consider as part of this complaint are: 
- there must have been a data breach at Clydesdale for the scam to have occurred; 
- Clydesdale ought to have prevented its number being spoofed by scammers;
- there were delays when Mr M called Clydesdale to discuss what was happening; and
- the payment ought to have been prevented by Clydesdales security systems as it 
was a sizeable sum and a payment of this nature and on this account had not been 
sent for some months;
Clydesdale looked at the scam as a whole and didnt uphold it. It said by the time 
Mr and Mrs M contacted Clydesdale, the money had already been transferred and it took all 
the necessary steps to try and recover the money, but this was unsuccessful. 
Clydesdale also said that when payments are made, they arent always referred to fraud for 
verification and this payment wasnt referred. It also said there hadnt been any data breach 
of its systems.
The events are as follows:
- Mrs M made two transfers of £25k and £10k from the joint account to the limited 
company account;
- Mrs M transferred £25k to the holding account at 16:26 from the limited company 
account;
- The £25k credited the receiving account at 17:05.
- Mr M called Clydesdale and this took place between 17:10 and 17:16  he was 
advised that Mrs M needed to call Clydesdale as she had taken the call from the 
scammer and made the payment from Ms account.
- £24,996 debited the receiving account between 17:15 and 17:20.
- Mrs M called Clydesdale back at 17:21 to provide the details of the scam.
- On 25 May Clydesdale contacted the receiving bank by email to see if any funds 
could be recovered.
The original complaint that Mr and Mrs M raised with Clydesdale, was set up and considered 
solely on the limited company account activity. But the losses Mr and Mrs M suffered were in 
fact from their joint account, the funds originated in the joint account, before passing through 
the company account and then on to the scammers. 
For the purposes of this complaint I am considering the activity and losses that occurred on 
Mr and Mrs M joint account. I have considered the complaint and activity on the limited 
company account as part of a sperate complaint. 
I have separated the two complaints as Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M should be permitted the 
opportunity to complain in their own right, about the losses suffered from their joint account, 
the scam and how this impacted them as individuals and also whether Clydesdale acted 
reasonably in carrying out the payment instructions from Mr and Mrs Ms joint account. 
I asked Clydesdale for its comments on the account activity on Mr and Mrs Ms joint account. 
it said:
- Looking at six months of statements for this account; there are a number of transfers 
between accounts operated by Mr and Mrs M
- These are of similar large amounts, to the movements on 24 May, so the scam 
payments do not appear unusual
I set out my provisional findings to both parties and asked for any further comments before 
issuing my final decision. Ive included these below.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs M have been the victim of a scam and have lost this money. I 
know this cant have been easy for them, either financially or emotionally. But Im not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.The regulations most relevant to this case are the Payments Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when a bank is responsible for 
transactions on an account. 
The transactions
A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions they authorise. Here, theres no 
dispute Mrs M authorised the transactions herself. She used an existing payee and 
transferred two amounts of £25k and £10k from the joint account to the limited company 
account. 
I know Mrs M was caught up in a scam at this time and so she was not acting as she might 
normally. The sophistication of the scam or how much care Mrs M took before making the 
payments isnt relevant to the matter of authorisation. All of this doesnt change the position 
on her having authorised the transactions or her liability for doing so. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So there are some situations where we might expect a bank to question transactions if they 
are particularly unusual for a customer. The bank didnt ask Mrs M about the transactions 
whilst they were taking place and I dont think that was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Ill explain why. 
Clydesdales actions
On the individual facts and evidence before me, Ive considered whether the activity 
surrounding the scam represented a particularly unusual account activity for Mr and Mrs Ms 
joint account and I dont think it did. I say this because:
-I have seen statements for this account between October 2017 and May 2018 and 
although its a joint account in Mr and Mrs Ms names they use it for business 
purposes. It therefore operates like a business account - by that I mean there is lot of 
activity on the account that you might expect.
-The statements I have seen show debits and credits of amounts between £50 - 
£1,000. But: 
oin December 2017 there is a credit of over £6k and a debit of over £8k;oin January there is a credit of over £23k and £14k and then several debits for 
£23k, £5k and £9k and £2k; and
oin May there are credits of £20k, £25k, £20k before Mrs M transfers £10k and 
then 25k to the limited company account. 
-Whilst I wouldnt say the high value transactions appear every month, Im persuaded 
they occur with enough frequency that the transfers that form part of the scam dont 
look significantly unusual or suspicious. 
-The two scam transfers are made to an existing payee  another account 
Mr and Mrs M have links with. I can see that payments had been made to this 
account in the previous months  although not for these amounts. But simply 
increasing the value of the transfer to an existing payee, by itself, doesnt seem 
suspicious. 
-The balance on the account varies. Because of the other credits into this account, 
after these two scam transfers are made there is a balance of almost £30k so there 
isnt an indication that the account was being cleared of funds. 
-In January 2018 when there are similar, high value, transactions in and out of the 
account, the balance fluctuates between £2k and £23k. So Im not persuaded the 
balance on the account after the scam payments ought to have caused Clydesdale 
concern that the transfers might be as a result of a scam or that Mr and Mrs M might 
be at risk of financial harm.
Considering the usual account activity, I dont think the scam payments were so unusual or 
suspicious that Clydesdale ought to have been concerned about them and intervened. 
Therefore, Im persuaded that executing the payments, was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ive addressed Clydesdales actions following the scam and its attempts to recover the funds 
from the scammers account on the complaint brought by the limited company. I wont repeat 
those here. 
But any attempts to recover funds for this complaint and for transfers from the joint account 
would be restricted to a claim against the limited company account. And we know Mrs M 
sent £25k on from that account to the scammers. So, there wasnt anything for Clydesdale to 
recover in respect of these payments. 
Responses to my provisional findings 
Mr and Mrs Ms daughter has since been added to the complaint as a representative and 
provided comments in relation to a different complaint I have considered. All of which arent 
relevant here as they relate to activity on a different account, also involved in the scam. 
Clydesdale didnt respond to my provisional findings on this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As the comments made on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf dont relate to any of the findings Ive 
made in this particular case Im not minded to change my conclusions from those set out in 
my provisional decision here. 
My final decision
As set out in my provisional findings and reiterated for the purposes of my final decision I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Clydesdale
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman