DRN-4218142
The complaint
Mr B says his daughter transferred £250 on 16 November 2022 to an account that was 
closed because Mr B had already switched his current account to Nationwide Building 
Society.
Mr B says that Nationwide should credit his account the missing funds, as part of the 
Switching Service guarantee. 
What happened
Nationwide says that when consumers switch their current account to Nationwide, any 
payments made to their previous bank account are automatically redirected to the new 
account and a message sent to the person sending the money to say the account they sent 
the money to is no longer in operation.
In this case, Nationwide said that it is only able to redirect payments if the previous bank 
makes it aware there has been a payment made in error. Nationwide said that it had not 
been notified of a payment going to the old account, and so concluded that it had not done 
anything wrong. Nationwide suggested that Mr B contact his previous bank, or that his 
daughter apply to trace the money that was transferred.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he concluded that as the previous bank 
had not received the money into Mr Bs old account, Nationwide was unable to apply for the 
payment to be redirected to Mr Bs new Nationwide account. The adjudicator suggested that 
Mr Bs daughter apply a trace on the payment to locate where the money went as it was not 
received into Mr Bs old account.
Mr B responded and disagreed. He said that Nationwide should reimburse him the money 
and referred to the terms of Nationwides Switching service guarantee which said:
"2.2 If something goes wrong with the Current Account Switch Service(for example if 
a payment is not redirected, is redirected incorrectly, or is lost), we will correct the 
error, you will receive a refund of any interest and/or charges incurred, paid or lost on 
your Old Account or your New Account as a result of the failure and we will notify you 
of any action we have taken and the outcome."
Mr B also added that he had no proof that his existing bank never received the money in 
question. As Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
To assist our investigation into this complaint, on 30 June 2023 we asked Mr B to confirm 
that a payment of £250 credited to his account on 16 November 2022 was not the payment 
in question; and also asked Mr B to provide evidence to show the account number and sort 
code that the payment was sent to. The adjudicator explained that once that was received, 
wed then pass the information on to Nationwide to investigate further.
However, Mr B never responded, despite a chaser being sent on 17 July 2023. As such, Ive 
made this final decision based on everything that is available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that Mr B and Nationwide have provided, Im unable to say that 
Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
As Mr B has pointed out, Nationwide does say that it will correct an error (for example if a 
payment is not redirected, is redirected incorrectly or lost) during the switching process. 
However, for Nationwide to correct the error, Id need to be satisfied that an error has 
occurred in the first place. What I mean by that is that Id need to be satisfied that money 
was paid into Mr Bs previous account or that the money had been redirected, but not 
reached Mr Bs Nationwide account.  
If the money was paid into Mr Bs previous account, then I would expect Nationwide to reach 
out to Mr Bs previous bank to arrange for the payment to be redirected. Alternatively, if the 
payment was received and redirected to Mr Bs Nationwide account, but it has somehow got 
lost in the system, again I would expect Nationwide to reimburse Mr B for this.
Before issuing this decision, we did ask Mr B to provide further evidence about the payment 
that his daughter made - for Nationwide to look into further. But unfortunately, Mr B didnt 
respond.
So, based on all the evidence we do have, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that the 
payment did reach Mr Bs previous account  or that it was redirected incorrectly. I therefore 
cant reasonably say that Nationwide has done anything wrong or that there is more it should 
do.
Finally, the adjudicator explained that Mr B should contact his previous bank to trace the 
payment. In the circumstances, this seems to be the best way forwards for Mr B to resolve 
matters, if hes still not located the money in question.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman