DRN-4374678
The complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him a poor exchange rate.
What happened
Mr P wanted to send some money in Sri Lankan rupees, from his sterling account, and used 
HSBCs Global Transfer. Mr P saw a live rate of around 415 rupees to the pound, and 
clicked through to the next screen.
The next screen said the rate wasnt guaranteed, and quoted 380 rupees to the pound. Mr P 
went ahead with the transfer, and received the lower rate.
Mr P complained to HSBC and said it was unfair to have a live rate that was nowhere near 
the rate he received. Mr P felt he was around £100 out of pocket, and had he known the rate 
was going to be so low hed have made the payment another way.
HSBC responded and said Mr P chose to make the payment at the rate he received. HSBC 
said it doesnt lay out the margins it uses, but these are all included in the rate it offers 
customers. 
HSBC said the exact amount to be received is shown in the mobile application and Mr P 
agreed to this.
Unhappy with this answer Mr P brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into things and didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.
The investigator said the rate wasnt guaranteed unless Mr P was sending a supported 
currency, and he wasnt. The investigator didnt think HSBCs payment journey was 
misleading and gave clear warnings the rate displayed was indicative.
Mr P didnt accept this, and said the system was a gamble. Mr P said there was an entirety 
clause in place, he shouldnt be relying on terms and conditions found outside of the 
payment journey online.
Mr P said the use of the word live was misleading. Mr P could accept a margin of around 5% 
on the exchange rate, but the difference was 10% according to rates available online.
And Mr P felt his expectations were set by the use of the word live, regardless of the rate 
displayed on the next screen.
Mr P said at no point was he advised the rate was so low. Had Mr P realised, he would have 
made payment another way, as he has before.
Mr P also said theres no mention of supported or unsupported currencies when completing 
the payment online.
The investigator sent HSBC proof of the days exchange rate, to show the difference, but 
HSBC felt it had already provided sufficient evidence to support its decision.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the screen shots Mr P provided this service when he first logged his complaint.
One screenshot, dated 25 April 2023, the day Mr P made his transfer, shows the rate as 
380. I think this screen is clear, it says what the rate is and how much, in Sri Lankan rupees, 
the beneficiary of the payment will receive.
Theres also a clear warning to say the rate is for indication purposes only and may not be 
the actual rate. This is the second screen Mr P would have seen.
Mr P supplied another screenshot, timed at 2 minutes after the first, and this shows the first 
screen he would have seen when making the payment. I assume Mr P went back to 
screenshot this screen after making the payment.
This screen says the exchange rate is a live indicative rate and subject to change. It also 
says the actual exchange rate will be confirmed at the next step. The rate displayed is 415.
I think this is clear. Regardless of the use of the word live, its clear this rate isnt necessarily 
going to be the rate Mr P receives. And the screen clearly says the rate will be confirmed on 
the next screen.
The next screen is where Mr P would have seen the rate at 380, along with, I think, a clear 
figure of what the beneficiary will receive in rupees.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration, the difference in rates between the first screen and the 
second screen is large. But this doesnt change my thinking around the second screen Mr P 
would have seen, I think its very clear what the rate is.
Mr P says he shouldnt be expected to step outside of the payment journey to check the 
terms or find out whether Sri Lankan rupees are a supported currency or not.
But I dont think Mr P had to step out the payment journey to know what rate he was going to 
get, I think its clearly stated on the second screen. I dont think the fact Sri Lankan rupees 
arent a supported currency for HSBC changes the clarity of the second screen.
Mr P says he wasnt advised the rate was so low, but I disagree, as above, I feel the screen 
is clear what rate is and how much, in rupees, will be received.
Mr P says the rate he received is a long way off the rates hes found for that day.
Mr Ps supplied proof of the rate from a reputable website. But I think this rate is a mid-point 
rate, buying or selling rupees are likely to have different rates, either side of this mid-point.
Ive looked at the rate for the day with a popular money transfer company, and its rate on the 
day Mr P made the payment was 399.I agree with Mr P around the variance in the rate, Id also expect somewhere close to 5% 
difference between the rate Mr P could have received and what HSBC gave him. But I think 
HSBC provided a rate close to what Mr P could have got elsewhere.
So even if I accept the rate was unclear, Im not sure Mr P would have got a much better 
rate elsewhere anyway.
I think HSBCs payment journey is quite clear. The first exchange rate Mr P saw was clearly 
indicative and the warning states the rate hell receive is on the next screen.
Having seen the next screen, I think its very clear what the rate is and its very clear what 
will be received in rupees.
The rate Mr P received appears to be what he was quoted on the second screen, so I dont 
think HSBC has done anything wrong here.
I know Mr P feels hes lost out, because he feels the payment journey is unclear. But since I 
dont agree the journeys unclear, I dont think it would be fair for HSBC to cover any losses 
Mr P feels hes suffered when sending his payment.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman