DRN-2736110
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is holding him liable for cash 
machine withdrawals which he says he neither made nor authorised.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary of events here.
In November 2019 Mr K was arrested and remanded into prison. In the months that followed, 
his savings account debit card was used to make several cash machine withdrawals, 
totalling £8,310. Mr K says he was in prison when the disputed withdrawals were made, so 
he couldnt have made these. He asked NatWest to investigate and find out who took his 
money and to put things right. He told NatWest before he was arrested, his house was 
raided by the police. He said he didnt know the whereabouts of his card. And hed not given 
his card or shared his PIN with anyone, nor does he have his PIN written down anywhere. 
 
NatWest investigated Mr Ks claim. It decided not to provide a refund. It said Mr Ks genuine 
card and the corresponding PIN were used to make the withdrawals. His PIN was entered 
correctly first time, which suggests the person making the withdrawals confidently knew the 
PIN. It also didnt find any typical patterns of fraud it would expect to see. It concluded Mr K 
had likely made his card and PIN accessible to another person, which was a breach of his 
account terms and conditions. It said that it would not be refunding him.
Mr K complained about the outcome of his claim. He was also unhappy that hed been 
provided conflicting information when he contacted NatWest to speak with it about a 
separate matter relating to the closure of his account. 
NatWest maintained its decision to decline the claim on the basis that the evidence supports 
that the withdrawals were made by someone with his authority rather than an opportunistic 
fraudster. Concerning the other matter, it acknowledged that it had provided some 
misleading information. It apologised and explained what Mr K needed to do.
 
Mr K still remained unhappy with NatWests decision to decline his claim. He brought this 
aspect of his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary she said 
that, on balance, the only plausible explanation for how someone was able to obtain Mr Ks 
PIN was that he gave someone he knew his card and PIN and therefore consent, to make 
the disputed withdrawals. She concluded that she didnt think NatWest were being unfair in 
holding him liable for the disputed withdrawals. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators outcome. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
 
I recognise Mr K feels strongly and doesnt accept that he can be held liable for the disputed 
withdrawals on the finding that it was more likely. He thinks there are several possibilities of 
how someone couldve obtained his card and PIN without his knowledge. And in the 
absence of any proof that he gave his card and shared his PIN, NatWest shouldnt be 
holding him liable and ought to refund the disputed withdrawals.
 
I think it will be helpful for me to start by explaining that we are an informal dispute resolution 
service. We do not consider complaints in the same way as a criminal court might. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I decide this case on the balance 
of probabilities and what I think is more likely than not to have happened  rather than 
beyond reasonable doubt. 
And whilst I understand the point Mr K is making, to be clear, my role here isnt to determine 
exactly what has happened, but it is to decide whether or not NatWests decision to hold 
Mr K liable for the disputed withdrawals was fair and reasonable. 
In short, NatWest is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. 
The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. But 
NatWest can hold Mr K liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that he made or authorised them. 
Firstly, Im satisfied from the technical evidence provided by NatWest that Mr Ks genuine 
card and corresponding PIN were used to make the disputed cash machine withdrawals. 
These were made when Mr K was in prison, so I accept he couldnt have made them 
himself. But under the relevant regulation the withdrawals do not, physically, need to be 
made by Mr K to be considered authorised. If the evidence, on balance, supports they were 
likely made with Mr Ks knowledge and consent NatWest can hold him liable. 
The person who carried out the disputed withdrawals wouldve needed to have been in 
possession of both Mr Ks card and PIN. Mr K says he did not provide consent nor share his 
card or PIN with anyone. He also says he didnt have his PIN written down anywhere.
 
Ive considered what Mr K has told us about him being remanded and his home being 
raided. Certainly, there was an opportunity for his card to have been taken or compromised. 
But it still doesnt explain how someone was able to enter his PIN correctly first time. Mr K 
has suggested someone may have guessed his PIN or observed him enter it. But its also 
possible that someone had his card and PIN with his knowledge. 
Ive carefully considered everything provided by both parties and, on balance, I think its 
unlikely an opportunist observed Mr K enter his PIN or correctly guessed it. Its more likely 
the cash withdrawals were carried out with Mr Ks knowledge and consent. So Im satisfied 
NatWests decision to not refund the disputed withdrawals is fair and reasonable.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman