DRN-3770563
The complaint
Mr G - a sole trader, complains on behalf of a business  Y, about a merchant services 
agreement with Barclays Bank Plc.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Y and Barclays. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have. 
Y entered into a card acquiring merchant services contract with Barclays in October 2021. 
This allowed Y to take credit and debit card payments from their customers. Y also entered 
into a separate card terminal hire agreement with another third party business (B2). 
Around January 2022, Y decided they wanted to end their merchant services agreements 
with Barclays and B2. Y was unhappy with what they felt were unfair charges levied against 
their account by Barclays and complained. 
As Y remained unhappy with Barclayss response, they referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. As Y didnt accept, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Its important that I state Im only considering the agreement between Y and Barclays here. 
That is, the services provided under card acquiring agreement. As outlined above, Y had a 
separate agreement with another third party business  B2. That complaint wont be 
addressed in this decision. However, I may make reference to B2 in this decision to give 
some context to what was happening more widely. 
The ending of the Barclays agreement
I understand Ys position here. They wanted to end their agreement with Barclays early as 
they were unhappy with the performance of their separate agreement with B2. 
But Y entered into this standalone agreement with Barclays for card acquiring services and 
Barclays were entitled - in line with the terms of their agreement - to invoice Y for the 
charges they disputed here. This was regardless of what was ongoing between Y and B2 at 
that time. 
Barclays explained to Y that they could consider closing their merchant account when they 
received the appropriate notice from B2. Ive noted that the Barclays account closure later 
went ahead. I dont uphold the complaint for this reason. 
The disputed account charges 
Having reviewed the relevant evidence (account statements), Im satisfied that the charges 
levied against Ys Barclays merchant account were correctly applied and in line with the 
relevant terms.
In short, Y had taken payment by credit or debit card and Barclays processed these 
transactions. Y used Barclays services and they can fairly apply the charges. There were 
also standard account charges  as outlined in the agreement - such as for data security. I 
dont uphold the complaint for this reason. 
The service provided by Barclays 
Barclays accepted that they may have not correctly listened to Y and their concerns initially 
in January 2022 and offered Y £50 compensation. Im not persuaded that Ys request for 
£250 compensation from Barclays is fair or reasonable. Its not in dispute that Y spent time 
on the phone trying to resolve things, but I consider the compensation theyve paid already 
to be a fair, reasonable and proportionate resolution to this part of the complaint and dont 
require Barclays to do anything further. 
My decision may disappoint Y, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve their dispute with Barclays.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman