DRN-4054335
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money allowed a £600 money 
transfer to go to an account that wasnt his.
What happened
Mr B made a purchase from a private seller for goods costing £600. He used the money 
transfer facility on his Virgin Money credit card to pay for the goods, but the seller said he 
hadnt received the payment, so Mr B looked at the sellers banking application (app) when 
they met, and the payment wasnt showing on the sellers app. So Mr B says he saw the 
payment was pending on his end and he read a statement on Virgin Moneys money transfer 
page which stated that you can only transfer money into a bank or building society account 
in your own name. Because Mr B felt the money transfer wouldnt complete as it wasnt a 
payment to his own name, he transferred the £600 from his current account to the seller who 
gave him the goods.
Mr B says that after several days, the pending status of the money transfer had disappeared 
from the app, but it had been successfully processed by Virgin Money. Mr B tried to contact 
the seller to retrieve the extra payment, but he says the seller keeps ignoring him. Mr B tried 
to get a refund from Virgin Money but this was unsuccessful as Virgin Money informed him 
that it appears the seller has withdrew the funds from that account. Mr B made a complaint 
to Virgin Money, who didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint. He said that while he empathised that Mr 
B was in a difficult situation  as the payment he made hadnt completed and the seller 
needed paying  Virgin Money werent at fault for this. He said the app shows it could take 
up to three days for the transfer to be completed. Our investigator said regarding the Credit 
Payment Recovery (CPR) process (trying to get a refund), Mr B raised this matter with Virgin 
Money on 29 March 2022 for the payment made on 26 March 2022. And as the payment 
had already been processed, Virgin Money were unable to stop it, so the CPR process was 
initiated by Virgin Money on 29 March 2022. He said although the recovery of funds wasnt 
guaranteed, the process says the customer will know the outcome of the claim within a 
maximum of 20 working days. But a letter was sent to Mr B on 18 May 2022 explaining the 
claim was unsuccessful, which our investigator calculated this at 34 working days, which is 
14 more working days than whats promised in the CPR process. So he said Virgin Money 
should pay Mr B £100 for the delay. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and he suggested that either Virgin 
Money should use the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) scheme for credit card money transfers 
or remove/amend wording on their website/app about this process. He says he was told over 
the phone by Virgin Money that they say he can only transfer money to his own account to 
stop fraudsters/scammers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Id like to explain to Mr B that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as what they display on their website or app or what 
checks they should make when processing a money transfer. It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Virgin Money to 
make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive looked at the video and the app screenshots Mr B has kindly provided to us. Looking at 
the video, Im satisfied that Virgin Money are clear that the money transfer should be going 
to Mr Bs own account and not a third party. I say this because on the Making payments or 
transfers screen there is a section titled Make a money transfer. Underneath this title it 
says Move money from your Virgin Money Credit Card to your bank account. So Im 
satisfied that this is made clear that this option was to be used if Mr B wanted to transfer 
money to his bank account  not another persons bank account. Mr B had two options to 
choose from on the following screen. 
Once an option for the money transfer is selected it takes you to another screen titled 
Important information. One of the bullet points of the important information states You can 
only make a money transfer to a UK bank or building society in your name. But at the 
bottom of this page, it says By continuing you agree that then Youve read the important 
information above. Mr B then has an option to select decline or accept. As the bank account 
he was transferring the money to was not in his name, then Mr B should not have selected 
accept. If he was in any doubt about the wording used, it would be reasonable to expect him 
to delay making the transfer until he spoke to Virgin Money to see if the payment could be 
made to a third party, even if this meant him losing the opportunity to purchase the goods.
I say this as the important information doesnt say they will carry out checks to make sure 
the account was in his own name. Mr B wouldve needed to accept the important information 
to progress the money transfer, confirming the account was in his name as part of the 
important information. This took him to another screen where it says How much do you 
want to transfer to your bank account, the wording is clear its to your bank account, and 
not a bank account, and not to a third party bank account. On the same screen it says 
You can transfer up to £(monetary amount) to your bank account. So Mr B was told twice 
on this screen that this was to his account. Once an amount is entered to transfer, this takes 
you to another screen. 
The screen shows Your bank account details, so again Im satisfied that Mr B shouldve 
only entered his bank details as instructed to. Again this does not give any indication that Mr 
B should enter details other than his own. There is a field for him to enter the account 
number and sort code. And the box underneath once again reiterates that You can only 
make a money transfer to a UK bank or building society account in your name. So this is 
why Im persuaded there would be no need to type in a payee name. I say this because I 
have highlighted several occasions so far where Virgin Money clearly explained the account 
would need to be in Mr Bs name, so it would not be proportionate to ask for a payee name. 
Once the sort code and account number are entered, Mr B would need to enter his 
password to submit his money transfer. The video shows once hes done this, a final screen 
shows Virgin Money have received his transfer request and It takes up to 3 days to transfer 
the money, if no extra checks are needed. Well be in touch if we need something. Otherwise 
well email you confirmation. So Im satisfied this is clear the transfer wont be instant as it takes up to three days to transfer the money  although it may be quicker based on them 
saying It takes up to. Although Virgin Money show on the app that All money transfers are 
subject to approval, this doesnt mean that they are all subject to extra checks as the 
confirmation screen states if no extra checks are needed. Its not for our service to say 
what these checks should be and when they are required.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the CoP scheme here. But Im not persuaded it 
would be proportionate for Virgin Money to need to use this here. I say this because they 
made it clear on numerous occasions that the payment should be to an account in Mr Bs 
name  and he clicked on accept  to accept the important information. So I cant hold Virgin 
Money responsible for Mr B entering a third partys sort code and account number when he 
had been told numerous times prior to this point that it would need to be an account in his 
name. The CoP scheme  as confirmed by the screenshot that Mr B sent our service from 
Virgin Moneys website shows that this is used when he was to set up or edit a payee. This 
is relevant to Virgin Moneys current accounts and not for their credit cards. And in this 
instance Mr B was not setting up a payee or editing a payee  he was processing a money 
transfer on a credit card to an account that should have been in his own name. So the CoP 
scheme wouldnt apply here. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said about what he was told by Virgin Money that they use 
the wording about a money transfer needing to go to his own account to put off scammers 
transferring funds. Im not disputing that he was told this by Virgin Money, and this may be 
one of the reasons they use this wording. But here Mr B accepted that this was to an 
account to his own name  when it wasnt, and he entered his password to confirm he 
wanted the payment to be made to the sort code and account number that he entered. And 
this is what Virgin Money processed for him. So I dont think it would be proportionate for 
Virgin Money to consider that the payment would be made to a third party here, when he 
confirmed he accepted the important information, and he entered his password to confirm he 
wanted to transfer £600 to the details he provided. 
It would have been proportionate for Mr B to check with Virgin Money about the pending 
transfer before he made the £600 payment from his current account if he was under any 
doubt about their process. The terms of his account doesnt state what will happen if he did 
enter someone elses account details, whether this would still be paid or not. So I cant see 
anywhere where they explicitly state that a money transferred paid to a third party account 
would be returned to his account. While I genuinely have a lot of sympathy for the situation 
hes currently in, I cant hold Virgin Money responsible for this. As the seller is refusing to 
return the overpaid money, this would be a civil matter. Because this was a money transfer 
to a third party seller and not a purchase with his credit card itself, this is why section 75 
protection would not be available to him here.
I can see that Virgin Money made efforts to recoup Mr Bs funds via a CPR. But ultimately 
they were unsuccessful in doing so. But I do think that Virgin Money let Mr B down with the 
time it took to process the CPR and communicate the outcome of this to Mr B. Im satisfied 
that £100 compensation is fair for this as it would have been distressing for Mr B to not find 
out the outcome of the CPR within the 20 working days he would have been advised of. It 
was nearly three weeks after this date which he was informed of the outcome. So it follows 
Virgin Money should put things right for Mr B.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Virgin Money pays Mr B £100 compensation due to the time 
it took for them to process the CPR, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr B 
£100 for distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman