DRN-2140395
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
In 1991, Mr and Mrs H took out an interest-only mortgage with Nationwide. It also sold them 
a mortgage endowment policy, with the aim of repaying the £63,000 capital borrowing due at 
the end of their 25-year mortgage term. They already held two endowments, sold in 
connection with previous mortgage borrowing, with a combined target of around £21,000. 
The endowment Nationwide sold them had a target of £42,000. 
Mr and Mrs H surrendered their endowment in 2015 for less than the target amount. In 2019, 
they complained  via a Claims Management Company (CMC)  that Nationwide had mis-
sold them the endowment. They said their attitude to risk hadnt been properly assessed; 
they werent prepared to take any risk; and they were told the policy would repay their 
mortgage. They say they would have taken out a repayment mortgage if theyd been 
correctly advised. But Nationwide said the endowment was suitable for them.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs H (via their CMC) referred the matter to us. They 
said the endowment ran into retirement  meaning it was unjustified that Nationwide sold 
them a risky endowment. But our investigator was satisfied, on balance, that the 
endowment was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. She said the notes indicated that a shorter term 
had been discussed, suggesting they were aware of and comfortable with the risk of 
repaying their mortgage after theyd retired. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this. The CMC say the notes about the term dont constitute a full 
discussion about the implications of this  or the way the premium increased over the years. 
So Im now making the final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide has provided some records from the sale. As it admits, these are somewhat 
limited and unclear. Given how long ago the policy was sold, I dont consider that 
unreasonable or surprising. My role is to weigh up the available evidence to decide, on 
balance of probabilities, whats more likely to have happened.
I consider the crux of Mr and Mrs Hs concerns to be about the risk of the policy. Although 
they say they were told the endowment would repay their mortgage, the sales documents 
dont indicate they were told this was guaranteed. To the contrary, the illustration showed 
there would be a shortfall with a 7% yearly growth rate. So Im satisfied they were told about 
the risk. But as it seems that Nationwide recommended the policy, it should also have made 
sure it was suitable for them. The sales documents suggest that Mr and Mrs Hs attitude to 
risk was discussed, but they dont clearly show how this was assessed/recorded. So, Ive 
considered what I know about the risk of the policy and their circumstances to decide 
whether it was suitable for them.
The endowment was a low-cost, with-profits policy. At the time of sale, these were 
considered low risk policies. But Mr and Mrs H say they couldnt take any risks with the 
repayment of their mortgage  meaning that even a low risk policy wasnt suitable. However, 
Im conscious that theyd taken out two previous endowments. I appreciate theyve since 
complained about these. But their prior experience suggests some awareness about how 
endowments worked and the risks they involved, as well as some aptitude for risk, at the 
time of this sale. 
Ive considered that the policy ran into retirement. But as our investigator pointed out, there 
are notes from the sale about both a 15- and 25- year mortgage term. I agree with the CMC 
that this isnt enough to prove that there was a full discussion about this. But as explained, I 
have to consider whats more likely. And I agree with our investigator that this suggests, on 
balance, that the risks associated with the policy running into retirement were discussed  
meaning that Mr and Mrs H were likely aware of, and decided to take, that risk.
Additionally, the full term of the endowment would only have run one year past Mr Hs state 
retirement age  and three years past Mrs Hs expected state retirement age. They also say 
in their questionnaire that they could have used their pension and savings to repay their 
mortgage in retirement  suggesting they could take some risk due to other provisions. 
Considering this along with their endowment experience and the indication I have of what 
was discussed during the sale, Im satisfied they could take a low level of risk. Meaning the 
policy was suitable for them. And, as explained above, Im satisfied they were also given 
enough information about how the policy would work. The information I have shows that the 
risk of the policy, as well as its cost, was clearly set out on the sales documents.
Whilst I dont consider this to be the crux of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, the CMCs response 
to our investigators view  about the term and increasing premium  seems to relate to the 
affordability of the policy. This is distinct to the argument about its risk. In any event, it 
doesnt affect my decision on whether it was suitable for Nationwide to recommend an 
endowment rather than a repayment mortgage  which is the remedy Mr and Mrs H are 
seeking. If we found an endowment policy was unaffordable due to its term  but that the 
risks were suitable  we wouldnt consider whether a repayment mortgage should have been 
sold instead. Rather, wed look at whether the endowment should have been sold over a 
shorter term (which would in fact raise the annual cost).
Given how long ago this sale took place, the recollections and records I have are 
understandably limited. But I do have enough information about the policy, what was 
presented and likely discussed during the sale, and Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time, to make a decision on the balance of probabilities. Whilst I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, what Ive seen doesnt persuade me that Nationwide mis-
sold this policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman