DRN-3031153
The complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan Life Stages Repayment Cover, which is similar to 
payment protection insurance policy, taken out in 2010. Mr A says St Andrews Insurance 
Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold him the policy.
As this complaint is about an insurer, Im only looking at the alleged mis-sale  any 
complaint about the commission is the responsibility of the lender.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to mis-sale complaints on our website and published 
some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant considerations may 
apply to insurance sales like Mr As. I havent set out that detailed information here, but Ive 
taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr A has said the policy was included as part of the personal loan package, but I think  
St Andrews made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the policy and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because the policy was added to his account shortly after he had 
taken the personal loan. St Andrews has said it was added to the loan account during a 
phone call. 
St Andrews hasnt been able to give us a recording of the call, but I dont find this 
surprising as this sale took place over ten years ago and businesses arent obliged to 
keep records indefinitely. But St Andrews has been able to give us a copy of the scripts 
it has told us its representatives would have used at the time. And I think it likely that the 
representative would have followed the script in the usual way. 
I see the script would have made it clear to Mr A that he had a choice about taking the 
policy. I also see that the representative would have asked Mr A questions about his 
demands and needs to make sure the policy was right for him and he was eligible for its 
benefits. And Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter which refers to the policy as being 
optional. So, taking all of this into account, I think Mr A was aware he had a choice 
about taking the policy and decided to add it to his loan account during the phone call. 
St Andrews recommended the policy to Mr A, so it had to check that it was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr As circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr A was eligible for the cover 
and he didnt have any means to fall back on to make the loan repayments in the event 
he wasnt working, so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr As employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr A says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for St Andrews to have 
recommended it. I say this because the condition Mr A told us about occurred over 12 
years before he took the policy. He told us he took medication and a few days off from 
work at the time but didnt tell us of any ongoing problems or further need for time off 
from work. So, I think at the time Mr A took the policy he wouldnt have thought it likely 
he would have needed to have made a claim on the policy because of the condition.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr A about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr A would have declined 
the cover had St Andrews done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr As circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr A would have still taken out insurance. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the 
policy was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all similar complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling these complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number 
of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the 
duty of utmost good faith meant St Andrews should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all similar complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means St Andrews doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman