DRN-3897938
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont refund the money she lost 
when she fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case in December 2022, explaining I was minded to 
uphold this complaint and direct Barclays to refund 50% of the first two payments. This also 
set out the details of the complaint and the reasons for my decision:
I understand that Mrs S made several card payments as part of this scam, which 
shes been refunded for. So Im only considering the outstanding loss  that is, the 
bank transfers for £12,000 and £5,500 respectively in April 2020, and the £6,142.87 
transfer in May 2020.
The starting position is that Mrs S is liable for payments she authorises  as banks 
have a duty to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. While 
she was tricked by scammers, its not in dispute that Mrs S used her own security 
credentials to request these payments. But there are some situations where we 
believe that bankstaking into account relevant rules, codes and best practice
ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If Barclays 
failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
There is an additional consideration for the first two payments  as they are also 
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, which Barclays is a 
signatory of. This code doesnt apply to the last payment as it doesnt cover 
international transfers.
Should Barclays refund the first two payments?
In line with the CRM code, banks are expected to refund victims of these types of 
scams unless they can show that an exception within the code applies. In this case, 
the relevant exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning from the bank by failing to take 
appropriate steps in response to that warning; or
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate.
I can see that, at least for the £12,000 payment, Mrs S selected the payment purpose 
as an investment. Barclays says this means the following warning was displayed:
Could this be a scam?
Have you checked that the company you're paying is genuine? You should be 
extra careful, as we've seen an increase in cloned websites of financial 
institutions. You can check the FCA website to see if there are any warning 
messages about the company you're looking to invest in.
You should also check that any investment you're considering is through a 
FCA regulated firm, and that the spelling is exactly the same as the company 
you're in contact with.
Be aware that fraudsters often provide an initial return on an investment to 
encourage you to provide larger amounts of money. They might also use 
current news topics, like COVID-19, to ask you to move your current 
investment, or invest in new accounts in the UK or overseas. It's best to talk 
to someone you trust or a financial adviser before investing your money and 
you should reject unexpected offers.
Im not persuaded this meets the definition of an effective warning under the CRM 
code. Thats because it doesnt make it clear that, if the customer is being scammed, 
any money sent will be lost and likely irrecoverable. While its helpful that the warning 
mentions checking the FCA website, it doesnt say this is something you must do, or 
give consequences for not doing so. Overall, I dont consider this was sufficiently 
impactful or clear enough. So Mrs S hasnt ignored an effective warning.
That said, I do think the information contained within the warning was relevant to the 
scam Mrs S fell victim to. So this does impact my consideration of whether she had a 
reasonable basis for belief. For the following reasons, Im not persuaded she did 
have a reasonable basis for believing the investment was legitimate:
Mrs S has told us she didnt know this type of scam could happen. But the 
warning she saw made it clear they did  and showed concern by the bank 
these were becoming more prevalent.
Particularly given the amount Mrs S was investing, I would reasonably have 
expected her to complete some research into the merchant she paying (E). 
And shes told us that, due to her line of work, she understood the process 
and checked E were registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
She says Es website gave an FCA number. But that she didnt check this 
against the FCA website  which Barclays warning suggested to check.
Additionally, Ive managed to access an archived version of Es website from 
April 2020. And I cant see anything on there to suggest they were claiming to 
be regulated by the FCA. In fact, Mrs Ss submission from when she referred 
her complaint to us includes a review of E by an investment website which 
says: The broker doesnt provide any information about its regulation or 
licence and it actually seems it doesnt have any. And so Im not persuaded 
Mrs S had a reasonable basis for believing that E was legitimate due to it 
being regulated by the FCA.
Mrs S has also told us she completed online research into E, including 
looking at reviews, before investing with them. But looking from search results 
from the time of the payments, I havent found any positive reviews for E. And 
Mrs Ss submissions include screenshots of a common review site. These 
dont show any positive reviews for E, only negative ones  including a 
negative review referring to E as a scam pre-dating these payments.Im also mindful that, when looking at all the payments made as part of this 
scam (including the card payments Barclays has already refunded), they were 
going to lots of different companies. I gather Mrs S wasnt aware that the card 
payments were going to a different company, but she could have seen this on 
her statements. Its not clear to me why Mrs S thought she had to pay at least 
three different payees as part of the investment  none of which were E.
Taking all of these circumstances together, Im not persuaded Mrs S had a 
reasonable basis for believing that she was making payments to E as a legitimate 
merchant. I havent been able to validate the points she says she relied on, and I 
think Barclays warning gave her further relevant information about the risk and what 
steps she could take. So Im satisfied there is an exception under the CRM code 
which Barclays can fairly rely on as a reason not to refund Mrs S in full. But Ive also 
considered Barclays obligations under the code. I think, given the payment sizes, it 
ought to have displayed an effective warning  which it didnt do.
It also appears that Barclays could have responded more quickly when Mrs S 
reported the scam. In the circumstances, and in line with the CRM code, I consider it 
fair that Barclays should refund 50% of these payments.
Should Barclays refund the third payment?
This was an international payment, so isnt covered by the CRM code. I therefore 
have to consider this payment as a separate event in line with our general 
expectations on banks regarding their duty to help protect their customers from fraud 
and scams.
In line with these general expectations, I consider it reasonable that Barclays 
processed this authorised payment instruction without completing further checks. I 
dont consider this payment to have looked particularly suspicious given Mrs Ss 
account history up to that point. By then, there was a history of what appeared to be 
investment payments.
Furthermore, Mrs S had made a genuine, undisputed payment of £19,000 to a new 
payee within the last two months. So there was a history of her making higher 
payments. And so I dont think this loss is attributable to an error by Barclays  
meaning its not liable. First and foremost, Barclays has a duty to promptly execute 
authorised payment instructions.
Is the compensation Barclays has paid fair?
As mentioned, Barclays has awarded £200 compensation for its delay responding to 
Mrs Ss contact about the scam. While I think that added to her upset and frustration, 
Im not persuaded it materially affected her loss. By the time she realised she had 
been scammed and reported this, several months had passed. Its therefore unlikely 
these bank transfers could have been recovered. Scammers generally move funds 
on promptly to avoid this. And we can already see a pattern of the scammers using 
various different accounts to divert the funds. In the circumstances, Im not minded to 
make a further award for the impact of this delay. Im persuaded the compensation 
paid fairly reflects the unnecessary upset this caused, in what were already difficult 
circumstances for Mrs S.
I invited both parties to submit further comments or evidence before I reached my final 
decision. Barclays said it would accept the conclusion Id proposed. Mrs S didnt agree, as 
she thinks Barclays should fully refund all three payments. Ive summarised the reasons shes given for this:
She hadnt previously made such large payments or an international payment. 
Previous large payments were mainly to herself or part of the scam, and its too short 
a period of time to look at just the two months leading up to the scam. So Barclays 
breached its duty of care as the payments should have triggered as unusual activity. 
She disputes that Barclays showed the warning it told us was displayed
Barclays also has failed in its obligations to effectively prevent money laundering
Her circumstances rendered her vulnerable to the scam as she was the only earner 
and had difficulty getting a job that complimented her childcare responsibility, so 
needed income to cover her mortgage. And this was a sophisticated scam.
She believes search engine optimisation accounts for why some entries coming up 
higher, even when filtering for information that was published at the time of her 
payments. 
She maintains that E were claiming to be FCA-registered
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and to make the same award as I did in my 
provisional decision  which is set out above and forms part of my final decision. As this 
already explains most of my reasons for my award, Ill focus here on addressing the points 
Mrs S raised in response to my provisional findings. 
My provisional decision referred to a genuine higher-value payment Mrs S had made within 
the two months prior to the scam. To clarify, we dont just look at the past two months of 
activity  we look at a longer period. But the activity I was referring fell within that timescale 
(normally around a year); the reference to it being within the two months prior was to help 
direct the parties towards the payment I was referring to. And the banks records do show it 
to be a payment to a new payee, rather than an existing payee. Albeit I note the payee name 
shares the same surname as Mrs S. Regardless, the point remains that this payment will 
have fed into the banks consideration of what level of payment to expect from Mrs S. By the 
time of the third payment, I dont think the international payment would have looked so 
unusual that Id consider it fair to hold Barclays at fault for not intervening further. 
Our expectations of banks when processing payments do take into account banks anti-
money laundering obligations, amongst other things. This feeds into our consideration of 
whether the bank should have taken further action (such as displaying an effective warning). 
But Id also point out that the concern here wasnt with the source of the funds Mrs S was 
transferring, even though I accept it was ultimately lost to criminal activity. 
Id also point that, under the provisions of the CRM code, I do agree that Barclays ought to 
have intervened and given an effective warning on the £12,000 payment. Ive found that 
Barclays failed to do this, which is why I think it should bear some responsibility for the 
payments covered by the code. 
Ive considered the points Mrs S raised about why she fell for the scam. I do appreciate why 
her circumstances at the time meant she was looking for other sources of income  which 
led to her being tricked by a sophisticated investment scam. But wed only expect a bank to 
fully refund a customer under the CRM code, regardless of their reasonable basis for belief, 
if their circumstances meant it would be unreasonable to expect them to have protected themselves against the scam. Here, its clear Mrs S did try to assess whether the platform 
was legitimate. So I dont think Mrs Ss circumstances mean Barclays is obliged to fully 
refund her. Id only expect it to do so if she had a reasonable basis for believing the scam.  
When thinking about what information Mrs S would have  or should have  seen if she had 
done her due diligence on E, I appreciate her point that we cant be certain about the order 
of search results for E. But searching for E online by filtering for results available prior to her 
investment does show there was, by that point, information online about E which cast doubts 
on their legitimacy. Some of this information was even included by Mrs S in her submissions 
to our service. For example, Mrs S says she relied on positive reviews. But Ive not been 
able to locate these. Instead, her own submissions to our service include a negative review 
pre-dating her investment.   
It seems a key factor Mrs S was relying on was her belief that E were FCA-regulated. Ive 
taken her recollections about this into account. But the information isnt clear, so I have to 
decide whats more likely. As explained above, the archived website Ive been able to 
access for E from the time didnt say they were FCA-regulated. And Ive found other 
information online at the time saying the same  i.e. that E dont appear to be regulated. And 
so I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs S to rely on this. As set out in my provisional 
decision, it also seems odd that the payments Mrs S made (including her card payments 
which have been refunded) were going to three different companies  none of which were E. 
It doesnt appear that Mrs S questioned this. 
Mrs S also says the Barclays warning wasnt displayed. The audit information Ive been sent 
does show that Barclays displayed some form of warning tailored to Mrs S selecting that the 
£12,000 payment was for an investment. But I dont think its enough to be particularly 
confident that the version of the warning Barclays has provided was definitely shown. The 
issue is that, even if Mrs S was shown a different warning that didnt give as much detail, it 
does still appear that she was given a warning about investment scams  which shes told us 
she didnt know happened. And as set out above, I havent been able to establish a 
reasonable basis for her belief that E were FCA regulated and had positive reviews. Bearing 
in mind Ive already found Barclays at fault for not providing an effective warning, I still think 
theres enough to support the conclusion that Mrs S didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs S. But for these reasons, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to increase my award from my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK Plc should refund Mrs S 50% of the payments she 
made for £12,000 and £5,500, which means it will need to pay her £8,750. It should also pay 
8% simple interest per year from the dates the payments left her account to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to put things 
right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman