DRN-1846946
The complaint
Mrs K complains that QIC Europe Limited (QEL) has avoided her cover (treated it as though 
it never existed) and by so doing declined her claim made to it after she lost an item of 
jewellery
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs K obtained a valuation for a piece of jewellery. It was valued at that time to 
be £23,000. When she took out her policy with QEL in the December, she specified the 
value of the jewellery to be worth £20,000. In April 2018, Mrs K made a claim for the loss of 
the jewellery.  
QEL investigated the claim and asked for proof of ownership and an up to date valuation. 
Mrs K provided the valuation which showed the jewellery to have been valued at £23,000, a 
few months before she had taken out the policy. In July 2019, QEL wrote to Mrs K telling her 
of its intention to avoid her policy from inception and decline her claim, based on the 
misdeclaration of the item. 
QEL said that Mrs K had answered the question it asked about whether she had any 
valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 each (excluding bicycles), carelessly. And it 
considered this to be a misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy dating back to 
December 2017 and refund the full policy premium. 
Mrs K brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld.
In short she agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. She believed that it was careless and thought that QEL were entitled 
to avoid the policy. She also concluded that QEL had been fair in refunding Mrs Ks 
premium.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigator and has asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
She said that QEL hadnt been clear as it didnt specify that there was a maximum limit that it 
would cover or how items were valued. She felt her own estimated value of the jewellery was 
enough and she was satisfied to insure it for £20,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I can understand that this will be a 
disappointment to Mrs K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QEL thinks Mrs K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
completed the online application, by inputting a lower value for the item, despite having 
obtained a recent valuation of it. 
Ive looked at a screenshot of a repeat application that Mrs K made in July 2019. She said 
she wanted to see why she wouldve entered a lower value for the jewellery. During this 
process she was prevented from completing the application as it would only accept a lower 
value, due to a pop up appearing that gave details of the limit. She acknowledged that, she 
wouldve entered the lower value, so that she could obtain cover and accepts that the pop-
up was there to inform the user, that there was a limit. I dont think Mrs K took reasonable 
care to ensure that an accurate value for her jewellery was provided to the insurer.
QEL has provided me with underwriting evidence to show that had Mrs K disclosed the 
actual value of the item, it would never have offered her any cover at all. So applying CIDRA, 
Im satisfied that Mrs Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
QEL has classed Mrs Ks misrepresentation as careless, and I agree. I accept that at the 
time she completed the application, she was suffering from extremely difficult personal 
circumstances, which she said affected her memory. In turn, I am satisfied that QEL did ask 
a clear question and gave information about its policy limits, to ensure that Mrs K had 
enough cover.
Ive next looked at the actions QEL can take in accordance with CIDRA and one of the 
remedies allows for QEL to avoid Mrs Ks policy. Which lets it not to have to deal with her 
claim following the loss of her jewellery. So in light of this, I think that allowing QEL to rely on 
CIDRA to avoid Mrs Ks policy and refund her premium, is a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman