DRN-3905978
The complaint
Mr G complains that IG Markets Limited, trading as IG should have done more to make him 
aware a stop order on specific holding within his Individual Savings Account (ISA) was to be 
cancelled and that he should replace it.
What happened
IG emailed Mr G on 23 June 2021 to tell him that the broker executing the stop orders on his 
account was changing its system and that all good until cancelled and good until date 
orders would be cancelled after close of trading on 25 June. IG explained that Mr G could re-
instate the orders on Monday 28 June. The email was received by Mr G, but unfortunately it 
went to his spam email box and he didnt see it until early September.
Mr G complained to IG that he only became aware in September that a stop order, in a 
company I will call Company C, had been cancelled when he saw the price on his account 
had fallen below the stop order price he thought was in place. Mr G thought that IG should 
have taken additional steps to ensure he was aware the order was being cancelled and that 
he could re-instate it. IG didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint and said that it had sent the email to 
Mr Gs email address and it had provided a statement date 28 June, available on-line to Mr 
G, that showed there were no working stop orders on Mr Gs account at this date. IG did 
offer Mr G £100 as goodwill gesture, but Mr G didnt accept it by the deadline date given.
Mr G brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that IG had done enough to make 
Mr G aware that the stop order was being cancelled, why it was being cancelled and what 
Mr G needed to do to re-instate it. Mr G asks that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr G will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator I dont think IG treated Mr G unfairly and Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. I will now explain why.
Mr G doesnt dispute he received the email sent to him by IG on 23 June, albeit it went to his 
spam folder, and Mr G accepts that if hed read it he would have understood what he needed 
to do in relation to the stop order for Company C. Mr G says he didnt open the email until 
September and accepts that this isnt the fault of IG. The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that it 
was unreasonable for IG to only send one notification of the change in the executing broker 
system, and that IG had an obligation to look after its clients interests.
Ive seen that IG rely on its terms and conditions that state any correspondence, documents, 
written notices, legal notices, confirmations, messages, or statement will have been properly 
given if they were delivered to the last address Mr G had provided. In this case theres no 
dispute it was delivered to the correct email address nor that it provided a clear and concise 
explanation about why the stop orders would be cancelled. It was also clearly headed as, 
Our executing broker is migrating to a new system. I think this is enough to ensure a 
customer reading it would be able to distinguish it from a marketing update or general email.
Mr G feels that in sending only one email IG fell short of its duty to pay due regard to its 
customers and treat them fairly. I have some empathy with Mr G that the email went to his 
spam folder, but this wasnt the fault of IG. I think it was reasonable for IG to consider Mr G 
would read the email, but Mr G says that IGs systems should have easily been able to 
identify customers who had not taken any action to replace the cancelled stop loss orders, 
and flag this list of customers as an indicator that a customer may not have realised what 
had happened. I think it may have been useful if IG had sent a follow-up email, but even if it 
did, I cant say it wouldnt have gone to the same spam folder as the email it sent on 23 
June. Regardless of this, I think its unreasonable to expect IG to monitor the activities of all 
its customers to this level. But the email wasnt the only information available to alert Mr G 
that all of his good until cancelled orders had been cancelled. 
Ive seen the 28 June account statement available to Mr G on-line and this recorded there 
were no working orders on his account at this time. Mr G says it wasnt always clear what his 
working orders were because they were at the bottom of the statement. However, there was 
a significant difference between the statements available to Mr G on 18 June and 28 June. 
There were 20 good until cancelled working orders on the 18 June statement and none on 
the 28 June statement. Mr G accepts he accessed his IG account 23 times from 1 July to 2 
September 2021. Taking into account the statements Ive seen, Im satisfied that IG provided 
Mr G with the information he would reasonably have needed to understand that not only had 
the stop order for Company C been cancelled, but all of his working orders had been 
cancelled after 25 June.
IG made an offer to pay Mr G £100 to settle the complaint which Mr G didnt accept by the 
deadline date. Mr G could contact IG if he now wishes to accept this and ask if it would now 
pay this amount.
My final decision
Ive decided that IG Markets Limited, trading as IG didnt treat Mr G unfairly and I dont think 
it needs to do anything else to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman