DRN-3090872
The complaint
Mr D and Ms S complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined to pay out the 
full value of their home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr D and Ms S suffered a break in at their home and the burglars caused damage to their 
house and took a number of valuable items. They made a claim to Aviva under their home 
insurance policy. 
Aviva have already paid out for repairs to the damage caused by the burglars as well as 
most of the valuables that were stolen and Mr D and Ms S are happy with this.
Part of the claim was for a watch which Mr D and Ms S had specified on their policy as 
having a replacement value of £4,675, but when they tried to replace it following the theft the 
price of the watch was between £6,300 and £6,800. Aviva have agreed to pay out the 
specified amount of £4,675.
Mr D and Ms S are unhappy about this because they cannot replace the watch, which was a 
gift to Mr D, and they want Aviva to pay out enough for the watch to be replaced as new.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think Aviva needed to do 
anything more. They accepted Avivas point that it was Mr D and Ms Ss responsibility to 
know the value of the items stolen, so they thought it was fair for Aviva to pay out the value 
of the item taken up to the value specified by Mr D and Ms S. So our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr D and Ms S asked that an Ombudsman review their complaint, so it has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D and Ms Ss policy document sets out the limit of cover in place for the items 
theyre covered for under the policy. Aviva say We will not pay more than the item 
sum insured for any specified item and the watch is listed as a specified item on Mr 
D and Ms Ss policy schedule at a sum insured of £4,675.
Mr D and Ms S also raise the issue that the policy offers New for Old cover and that 
this might entitle them to have the watch replaced as new by Aviva at its full retail 
price of around £6,800. However, the policy wording also says At all times the sum 
insured must be at least equal to the full cost of replacing the property as new. 
Aviva is clear that the watch wasnt insured for its full replacement price as new so 
Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions by 
applying the limit of £4,675 for this part of the claim. So I wont be directing it to 
increase this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman