DRN-4009015
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled their claim.
They bring their claim through a representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to submissions as 
being made by them personally. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had travel medical insurance with Great Lakes. They were on holiday in March 
2022 when Mr J slipped and broke his ribs. Mr J was taken to a private hospital as this was 
the nearest and he was experiencing significant levels of pain. Mr J was taken to intensive 
care, but not before paying 6,000 euros to the treating hospital. 
Mr and Mrs J claimed with Great Lakes and his medical bills were settled. However, they 
said Great Lakes didnt handle their claim well. In summary, they said Mrs J was vulnerable 
and didnt receive a tailored level of service in recognition of her vulnerability. They also said 
they didnt receive updates from Great Lakes and that they had to regularly call the insurer 
for this. Mr and Mrs J would like compensation for the poor level of service received and the 
cost for two flights of family members who came to support Mrs J whilst Mr J was in hospital. 
Great Lakes didnt think itd handled Mr and Mrs Js claim poorly. It said that whilst Mr J was 
in hospital, it was closely managing his claim and gave authority to the treating hospital for 
treatment needed whilst Mr J was in intensive care. It also said it was unaware Mrs J was 
vulnerable at the time because she didnt disclose anything that caused it concern. Great 
Lakes said Mrs J was staying at a friends house and so it didnt need to arrange alternative 
accommodation. It said that Mr and Mrs Js representative, their daughter, was calling so 
frequently there wasnt any need for Great Lakes to call with updates as this was happening 
so often. 
Despite this, Great Lakes made an offer to Mr and Mrs J accepting there were a couple of 
instances where it couldve handled things better. It conceded one of its advisors, whilst 
trying to be helpful, caused some confusion about the policy limitations and so it offered to 
waive the policy excess of £250 and reimburse the cost of one of the flights for the family 
members that came to support Mrs J. 
Our investigator thought this was fair. He said that although Mr and Mrs J were left feeling 
upset with Great Lakes, he didnt think itd made significant errors whilst handling their claim. 
He highlighted Great Lakes hadnt told the treating hospital Mr J was leaving the hospital 
when he did and that this caused some unnecessary distress. But he felt, overall, that the 
reimbursement of the flight costs at £225.96 was a fair amount of compensation to cover 
this. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. In summary they felt the compensation wasnt enough. They would 
like £1,000 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. They also insist 
that Mrs J was vulnerable, and that Great Lakes failed to recognise this as it didnt provide 
her with the level of service they were expecting. And so, its now for me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the level of compensation offered is fair. My reasons for saying 
this are the same as those already explained by our investigator in that I dont consider 
Great Lakes to have made significant errors thatd justify the level of compensation Mr and 
Mrs J are expecting. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. Having carefully 
reviewed the chronology of this claim, Im satisfied, for the most part, it did this. Mr J was 
admitted to hospital with his broken ribs on 8 March and was repatriated to the UK on 31 
March. During that time, Mr J was discharged from the intensive care unit on 12 March, the 
day after his daughter arrived to help support Mrs J. Im satisfied that Great Lakes provided 
financial authorisation when Mr J arrived at the treating hospital, meaning the hospital was 
aware it would be covering costs associated with Mr Js treatment. 
I know Mr and Mrs J had to pay 6,000 euros upon admission, but I cant reasonably hold 
Great Lakes responsible for that because it did everything it should have ready for Mr Js 
arrival. I understand this has subsequently been returned to Mr and Mrs J and so theres no 
further finding I can make here. I understand Mr J had his EHIC card, but this wouldnt have 
been of any use at a private hospital. The nearest state hospital was over 70km away and 
given Mr Js level of pain, I think it was appropriate to take him to the closer private hospital. 
Ive not seen that there were any obvious, or unnecessary delays caused by Great Lakes 
throughout the handling of Mr and Mrs Js claim. Ive seen theres activity almost daily and 
where there are short periods of decreased activity, this happened to be over the weekend 
when Mr J was discharged from ICU and the treating hospital had fewer staff. Again, I dont 
think itd be reasonable to hold Great Lakes responsible for those periods. 
Throughout the time Mr J spent in hospital and since his discharge from ICU, he was still not 
well enough to return home. I know that because Great Lakes had requested updated 
medical reports regularly, almost daily, and was asking relevant questions pertaining to Mr 
Js health, his recovery and his readiness to return home. There was some initial confusion 
around whether Mr J needed a medical escort to accompany him on his repatriation flight 
and this caused some delay by a few days. But, again, I dont consider that to be Great 
Lakes fault because it was simply acting on the instructions given in one of the medical 
reports provided by the hospital. 
On 24 March Great Lakes requested information to determine whether Mr J was fit to fly. On 
average, Great Lakes said it expected that Mr J would be ready to return home around two 
weeks after his medical tubes had been removed and so I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect the insurer to enquire about Mr Js readiness to fly before then. It 
wanted to know more about Mr Js oxygen saturation, his sitting tolerances, whether hed be 
able to withstand the pressures of take off and landing and whether hed need a medical 
escort to fly home. All of which sounds reasonable and consistent with the injuries sustained 
by Mr J. 
The treating hospital didnt answer all of the questions asked by Great Lakes, which added 
more time to the overall repatriation process. I note Mr and Mrs Js daughter was trying to 
act as a conduit between her parents and the hospital and that she explained a medical 
escort was unnecessary  which was correct. However, given the complexity and 
seriousness of Mr Js injuries, I think it reasonable, on this occasion, Great Lakes attempted 
to verify this information with the treating hospital. Thats to say that although their daughter was correctly sharing the information she was given by the hospital, it was right that Great 
Lakes verify this through the appropriate channels. 
I noticed Great Lakes requested clarification the same day and then chased again the 
following day. Great Lakes ended up calling the hospital and speaking to the treating doctor 
so it could better understand Mr Js condition and what was needed to help facilitate a safe 
return to the UK. Great Lakes arranged for travel to and from the airports, wheelchair access 
and paid for Mrs J to return with her husband. I think this was the right thing to do and 
therefore fair in the circumstances. I note there were some delays here, but as Ive 
explained, they werent caused by Great Lakes and Im satisfied it progressed matters as 
quickly as it could.
Mr and Mrs Js policy wouldve covered extended accommodation costs for Mrs J, however, 
shed managed to make her own arrangements through friends and therefore it wasnt 
necessary for Great Lakes to make any additional arrangements there. 
Mr and Mrs Js daughter made arguments about Mrs J being vulnerable and Great Lakes 
failing to recognise this and provide appropriate levels of support. I understand the argument 
shes making here, but Im not persuaded Great Lakes made a mistake because I dont 
consider there to be any clear indication about what her vulnerabilities were, nor do I see 
what more Great Lakes couldve reasonably done in the circumstances. I think its worth 
highlighting this mustve been a traumatic experience for Mrs J as Mr J was seriously hurt 
and required immediate medical intervention. But having reviewed the contact between 
Great Lakes and Mrs J, she didnt give any clear message related to vulnerability, economic 
or otherwise. 
Mrs Js daughter subsequently said her mother was financially vulnerable and that her age 
also left her at risk as she wasnt used to navigating her finances, nor was she able to 
communicate effectively with the medical team at the treating hospital. But unless Great 
Lakes was told this at the time, I dont think it reasonable to expect it to have made 
arrangements to support something it knew little about. I dont consider there to have been 
any indication initially that Mrs J had a low resilience to handling her finances. 
Arguably it could be said there were indications that Mrs J was struggling to cope with the 
emotional impact, given her testimony that she wasnt used to being apart from her husband 
for any extended period of time, however, Great Lakes didnt hold a contact number for Mrs 
J. And, when it managed to speak with her directly, thanks to Mrs Js daughter providing her 
contact number, it was able to respond more effectively by arranging the support mentioned 
above, including covering the flight costs for Mrs Js daughter to accompany her throughout 
the ordeal. I dont think theres much more Great Lakes couldve reasonably done against 
that backdrop. The cost of that flight was initially less than the excess on the policy, 
however, I note Great Lakes subsequently waived the excess. I should say that it didnt need 
to do this, but because it has, thats enabled Mr and Mrs J to receive compensation equal to 
the cost of their daughters flight. 
Having said that, I note that it appointed an agent to help facilitate discussions at the 
hospital, it made arrangements to translate the incoming medical reports and provided 
updates almost daily. It also agreed to cover the flight costs for Mrs Js daughter to support 
her throughout that time. And so, I consider Great Lakes to have met its obligations here 
because I think it made arrangements to support Mrs J as best it could.  
I take on board contact was largely initiated by Mrs Js daughter most of the time, but I think 
its important to recognise that she was calling Great Lakes, most of the time, several times 
each day. This meant there wasnt an opportunity for the insurer to proactively call them as 
updates were being given during those contact points. Further, this appeared to have an adverse impact on their claim because each time they were calling for updates, this was 
delaying progress. 
I say that because the advisors they spoke to at first port of call werent the claims handlers 
dealing with their case. And so, this was adding to the overall time taken because those 
messages were then passed to the claims handlers to review. This isnt unusual and most 
insurers work this way and so I dont consider the service to have fallen below acceptable 
levels as this is considered standard industry practice.  
Its for these reasons Im satisfied Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs J fairly. The policy 
covered the cost of Mr Js medical treatment and repatriation flights. It waived the excess for 
the policy which was £250 and offered compensation equal to the cost of their daughters 
flight which I think is fair given the relatively low level of impact Great Lakes actions had on 
this claim. I think the only failing on the insurers part was that it didnt tell the hospital the 
planned date for Mr J to fly home. It shouldve done that to make it less stressful for Mr and 
Mrs J. But I think the overall compensation offered fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused and so I wont be asking Great Lakes to pay any more.
My final decision
I think the compensation offered by Great Lakes Insurance SE is fair and so I wont be 
asking it to do anything else in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman