DRN-2782129
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from PSA Finance UK Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In October 2016 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
PSA.
In June 2019 the car broke down. It was recovered to a third-party garage who advised Mr C 
that the engine required replacement.
Mr C complained to PSA and asked it to cover the costs of repair. In response PSA said 
there was no evidence to suggest that there was a fault present at the point of supply.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr C didnt agree. He provided further information about an engine problem with the car 
which was supported by a report from a mechanic who stated that the issue with the engine 
was a common fault with this model of car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 theres an implied term that the car is of satisfactory 
when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable 
person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage 
of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second hand car such as that supplied to Mr C to have a degree of wear 
and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this 
complaint, In would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault, as opposed to an 
issue due to general wear and tear.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to the business 
to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer  
to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Theres no dispute that there a fault with the car. The issue here is whether the fault was 
inherent at the point of supply.
Mr C has explained that the car has a history of the engine cutting out without warning.  Hes 
explained that in June 2019, the engine cut out and the car was taken to a main dealer 
where it diagnosed an engine problem.
Ive looked at the report which was completed by Mr Cs insurance company. This says that 
the engine fault wasnt related to previous repairs carried out to the car following a collision 
in 2018. It also says the engine fault is a common fault with this engine which would normally 
be covered by the manufacturers warranty provided that the car had a full main dealer 
service history. 
I can see from the report that Mr Cs car was out of warranty and didnt have a main dealer 
service history. The insurance report says that because of this, its Mr Cs responsibility to 
replace the engine.
Ive taken the insurance report into account. Whilst I acknowledge that it states that the car 
suffered a fault which is known to the manufacturer, I think the lack of service history casts 
doubt on whether the fault was an inherent fault or whether it arose due to a failure to 
properly maintain the car.
Ive taken Mr Cs comments about the history of the engine cutting out into account. But 
theres no evidence to support this. Mr C hasnt provided any breakdown reports, job cards 
or invoices to show that the car had work carried out for an engine fault.
Ive looked at the MOT history of the car and I can see that it passed a MOT in May 2019 
and May 2020. I can also see that there are outstanding recalls on the car which dont 
appear to have been attended to.
On balance, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. The balance of evidence points towards a lack of 
servicing of the car which is likely to have contributed to a fault. Theres nothing in the 
insurance report which says that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Taking  all the evidence into account, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman