DRN-3037404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Santander UK Plc, (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage in 2004 during a meeting. At the same time they took 
out a monthly-premium MPPI policy which only covered Mr T. 
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. But as 
Santander disagreed with this view, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I explain why below.
Santander has told us that it advised Mr and Mrs T to take out the MPPI. But, in spite of us 
checking after Santander disagreed with the adjudicators view, is has been unable to send 
us copies of any of the paperwork signed by Mr and Mrs T at the time. Or any samples of 
the forms that were in use then. Understandably, because of the time that has passed, it 
has also been unable to give us any details of what it said to Mr and Mrs T during the 
meeting. So, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont find that Ive enough evidence to 
conclude that Santander made it clear enough to Mr and Mrs T that the policy was optional 
or that they agreed to take it. So its likely they took it out when they didnt really want it. This 
view is reinforced because Ive seen that Mr and Mrs T tried to cancel the policy a few days 
after it started. 
This means that they have lost out because they paid for something they didnt want.
 
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs T should be put back into the position they would have been in now if they had 
taken out the mortgage without the MPPI policy. So Santander should:
- Refund to Mr and Mrs T all the premiums they paid to the MPPI policy; and
- Pay Mr and Mrs T interest at 8% per year simple on each premium from the date it 
was paid to the date compensation is paid.
- I understand that Santander has already paid some compensation to Mr and Mrs T in 
relation to the level of commission it got for selling them the policy. It can take off the 
amount of this compensation from the amount Ive decided it now owes them
 If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. And 
I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs T compensation in line with the approach set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman