DRN-2476655
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) have declined his claim for 
damage caused to his lounge carpet by an engineer. The work was being carried out under 
Mr Hs home emergency policy. Mr H wants British Gas to pay him the cash equivalent of 
replacing his carpet. 
 
What happened
Mr H says that a British Gas engineer came to his home in November 2019 to carry out a 
service and to also look at an issue with the central heating. Mr H says that the engineer 
caused damage to the carpet by bringing in a dirty ladder which left marks in various areas 
of the carpet. 
Mr H complained to British Gas and he received a response which said British Gas would 
deal with cleaning only those areas directly damaged, this included the porch, hall, stairs, 
landing and bathroom. They said they hadnt damaged the lounge carpet but later reversed 
their decision and agreed to include this.       
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. Mr H told us that the carpet was around two 
years old. And, because him and his wife have a health condition, he had to choose this 
particular carpet because it helped with their condition, even though it was more expensive. 
Mr H told us he paid £32.99 per sqm for the carpet. He said he wanted British Gas to pay 
him the cash equivalent of replacing the carpets.   
British Gas told us they did originally arrange for the carpet to be cleaned but this wasnt 
possible. They then offered to replace the carpets which Mr H declined. British Gas obtained 
a flooring assessors report and then offered a cash settlement of £1,800 in the absence of a 
new quote or invoice from Mr H showing what the total outlay would be. British Gas agreed 
with Mr Hs calculations of the dimensions of all rooms totalling 72sqm and valued the carpet 
at £18.39 per sqm. They broke down their offer as, fitting costs £468.90 + £1,324.08 = 
£1,792.98. This was rounded up to £1,800. Our investigator felt that British Gas should pay 
£2,750 made up as fitting costs plus £2,375.28 (72 x £32.99).
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and British Gas on 25 November 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Firstly, Ive looked at the circumstances which led to Mr Hs complaint. The key facts 
about that arent in dispute. A British Gas engineer caused the damage to Mr Hs 
carpet. The only issue I have to decide is what steps British Gas should take to put 
things right. 
When assessing the value of a carpet, its not unreasonable for an insurer to rely on 
a valuation provided by an assessor. But, I would expect the assessor to provide 
clear information about the factors theyve taken into consideration when arriving at a 
valuation. There are a range of factors which determine the price of a carpet, this 
includes how dense the fibre is - the more dense the fibre the more expensive the 
carpet will be. Also, the higher the length of the pile above the backing and the 
finished weight of the pile, the more costly the carpet will be. Another factor is 
whether the carpet is synthetic or wool. The assessors report doesnt provide any 
comparison and/or similarities between Mr Hs carpet and one priced at £18.39. The 
information I have seen from the report doesnt show how the assessor calculated 
the figure of £18.39 and, fundamentally, what factors they took into consideration 
when arriving at this figure.
 
British Gas say the assessors they used act for a wide range of insurers and validate 
the costs and flooring that have been damaged on site. British Gas said Mr Hs 
carpet has been confirmed as synthetic, which they say is lower on the scale of 
quality. They say, it was assessed that a direct replacement would cost £18.39 per 
sqm on a like for like basis, validated through an on-site inspection by a company 
who specialises in the assessment of carpets. Ive seen the report and this does 
confirm the carpet as synthetic. This alone however doesnt persuade me on British 
Gas valuation. 
British Gas have referred to luxury carpets being priced around £30 per sqm. Ive 
carried out research and agree more expensive carpets are around this figure. One 
feature Ive noted about the carpets around this figure is that they are generally made 
of wool. Ive also seen information which suggests wool carpets are more expensive 
than synthetic carpets. But, even taking this into consideration, Ive seen some 
synthetic carpets which are priced higher than the valuation given by British Gas. 
And, nothing Ive seen in the assessors report or from British Gas persuades me that 
Mr Hs carpet isnt one of the synthetic carpets in that particular price range.  
Our investigator did ask Mr H whether hed retained a receipt or if there was any 
other information which could prove what hed paid. Mr H says he paid with cash 
and, given the passage of time since he purchased the carpet, I dont think its 
unreasonable for him not to have retained a receipt. I cant however ignore the fact 
that I dont have any evidence which shows Mr H paid the amount he says he did. Mr 
H has told us why he decided to buy a more expensive carpet and I believe this did 
lead him to pay a higher cost than the valuation being used by British Gas. Ive seen 
a number of higher priced synthetic carpets in the price range £24 - £28. So, £26 falls 
within the middle of this range. And, £26 is also around the mid-point between the 
two sums of £18.39 and £32.99. It therefore follows that I intend on deciding that 
British Gas should pay a cash settlement for the carpet to Mr H in the sum of 
£2,247.12. This is broken down as follows: fitting costs of £375.12 (£5.21 x 72) + 
cash equivalent for carpet of £1,872 (£26 x 72). I feel this is a fair way to resolve 
matters.  
I note British Gas have pointed out that Mr H declined their offer to replace the 
carpet. I think its reasonable, given that Mr H is vulnerable and in light of the current 
pandemic, for him to be cautious. And, I understand why he wouldnt want to let 
people into his house. So, I think its fair and reasonable for him to ask for a cash 
settlement as opposed to a replacement carpet.  
I think its fair that British Gas should compensate Mr H for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him throughout this matter. Its been over a year now since 
the damage occurred and Mr H hasnt yet seen a resolution to this. 
I also cant ignore the fact that events occurred which understandably caused Mr H 
further worry and upset. This includes the assessor missing the damage to the 
lounge during the first inspection and British Gas insisting only damaged areas would 
be cleaned  this being before the assessor had carried out any inspection. I can see British Gas offered £30 for compensation. I dont feel this is reasonable given the 
period of time Mr H has been left troubled and upset by this matter. In view of the 
distress and upset caused to Mr H, I intend to decide that British Gas should increase 
the compensation to £100. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr H or British Gas, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require British Gas to pay a cash settlement 
and £100 compensation. 
Following my provisional decision, Mr H responded to say he isnt completely happy with the 
decision as he feels hell be out of pocket by around £500. He said the shop where he 
bought the carpet has closed down so hes unable to get a receipt. British Gas havent 
responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
I have taken into account Mr Hs comment about why hes unable to produce a receipt, but 
this does leave me in a position where I dont have any evidence which proves how much he 
paid. So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to rely on the results of my own 
research. The £26 figure this has given me also roughly represents the mid-point between 
the two sums which have been put forward by Mr H and British Gas. So, this further 
persuades me that a figure of £26 is fair and reasonable in this case.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that the damage to Mr Hs carpet was caused by British Gas. And, given 
Mr Hs concerns, its fair and reasonable for British Gas to give him a cash settlement of 
£2,247.12. British Gas should also pay compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr H.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must:
 
Pay Mr H a cash settlement of £2,247.12; and
Pay compensation to Mr H in the sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman