DRN-3248915
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as 
RSA have handled a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim to RSA for damage to his car. There were two areas of damage - one on 
the drivers side and one on the passengers side. RSA said that each area of damage 
resulted from a separate incident and, if Mr B wanted them to pay for both areas to be 
repaired, they would record it as two separate claims and charge an excess for each one. 
Mr B was unhappy about this and complained to RSA. They asked one of their motor 
engineers to review the matter. They then told Mr B they were satisfied their decision to treat 
each area of damage as a separate claim and charge an excess for each was correct. 
Mr B asked us to consider a complaint about RSAs decision. One of our investigators did 
this and concluded RSA had acted in accordance with the policy terms and reasonably in the 
circumstances.
Mr B doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes adamant the two 
areas of damage happened as a result of the same incident. And  in view of this  he thinks 
both should be dealt with as one claim and he should only have to pay one excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that RSA has acted in accordance with the policy terms and 
reasonably in the circumstances. Mr Bs policy says the policyholder has to pay an excess 
for each incident of damage to his car that he claims for. This means all RSA have to do is 
show that it is most likely that the two areas of damage to Mr Bs car were as a result of two 
separate incidents. Of course, its possible they happened as part of the same incident, but 
this doesnt mean this is most likely to be what happened. 
It does seem from what Mr B has said that both the areas of damage happened after he last 
saw the car, as otherwise hed probably have noticed the damage on the drivers door 
previously. But this doesnt prove they happened as part of the same incident. And I think 
the photographs show the damage to the passengers side was caused by another car 
hitting the car and scrapping along the side of it. 
Whilst its difficult to say what caused the damage to the drivers side, I think its unlikely it 
was caused by the same car that damaged the passengers side. I say this because it was 
done in a different way and it is on the other side of the car. So I think its most likely 
someone else caused it at a different time.
 
This means  as per the policy terms - because I think its most likely the damage to the 
drivers door was as a result of a separate incident, if Mr B wants to make a claim for it, he is 
liable for the amount of the excess. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as RSA.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman