DRN-3616581
The complaint
Mr M complains that systems problems experienced by The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (Royal London) meant that he was unable to obtain a valuation of his 
pension investments, or make changes to those investments, for an extended period of time.
What happened
Mr M holds pension savings with Royal London. Those savings are held in an older 
Section 32 Buyout Bond that was taken out in 2003. The nature of the product means that 
Mr M does not have the ability to view, or manage, his investments online. So Mr M is reliant 
on Royal London to provide him with valuation information when required, and he instructs 
any investment changes in writing. Mr M says that those changes were generally 
implemented within a few working days, and that he normally received a written confirmation 
of their completion.
In May 2021 Mr M sent an email to Royal London with some investment changes. But he 
failed to receive the normal notification of its completion. Just over a week later Mr M called 
Royal London to check that it had received his request. At that stage he was told that a 
systems error was preventing the change from being implemented. And he was also told that 
the same error meant that Royal London was unable to provide him with a valuation of his 
pension savings. 
Identification and resolution of the systems error that caused these problems was protracted. 
It appears that Royal London was unable to complete its fix until the second quarter of 2022. 
So that meant there was an extended period during which Mr M was unable to make 
changes to his pension investments. Following discussions with our investigator 
Royal London said that it considered compensation of between £1,000 and £1,500 to be fair. 
Mr M thought that a far higher amount of compensation was warranted.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that a 
compensation payment of £1,500 would be fair for the inconvenience that Mr M had been 
caused. She accepted that there was an extended period during which Mr M was unable to 
make changes to his pension investments. But she noted that Mr M agreed he was unable to 
say with any certainty what those changes would have been. So the investigator thought that 
any possible investment losses would be fairly covered by the proposed compensation 
payment.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As I explained earlier Mr Ms pension plan was relatively old, and so didnt offer some of the 
features that we now expect from financial products, such as online access. But Mr M 
accepted that to be the case, and provided paper instructions for any changes he wanted to 
make to his investments. But, unbeknown to both Royal London and Mr M, the legacy nature 
of his pension plan also caused other systems constraints to occur.
Since Mr Ms problems arose, Royal London has identified that its systems were unable to 
accommodate the use of more than 40 different investment funds by a customer during the 
year. So that meant that when Mr M regularly changed the investments he held in his 
pension plan the processing system failed. That caused the errors that were seen by Mr M  
an inability for Royal London to provide him with valuation information, or to allow changes to 
be made.
Royal London has now put in a workaround to allow Mr Ms pension plan to operate 
normally. But it says that it is unable to give any assurances that similar problems might not 
arise in the future. It isnt for this Service to tell Royal London how to manage its IT systems. 
But I do think that Mr M is now on notice that the legacy pension plan he holds might not be 
suitable for the way in which he chooses to manage his pension investments.
I have asked Royal London for information about Mr Ms pension investments, including 
details of their historical values and individual investments. It is clear from that information 
that Mr M did make frequent changes to his investments, and that those changes stopped 
when the systems problems occurred in 2021.
Those problems meant that Mr M was unable to form a reasonable picture of how his 
pension investments were performing. And he says that means that he wasnt able to assess 
whether it would be appropriate to make any changes to his investments. I agree that those 
restrictions were as a direct result of the systems problems that Royal London was 
experiencing on his pension plan.
But the difficulty that presents is that it isnt possible, with any reasonable degree of 
confidence, to reconstruct the decisions that Mr M might have made in relation to his 
pension investments over an extended period of time. I can see that, in the year before the 
problems arose, Mr Ms pension investments outperformed what I might consider to be a 
reasonable benchmark. But during the period of the problems his investments also 
outperformed that benchmark, albeit to a slightly lesser extent.Mr M will be well aware of the general principle that past performance is no guarantee of 
future performance. Although his interventions appear to have been relatively successful in 
the year before the systems problems arose, I have no basis on which to conclude that 
success would have continued. So, like our investigator, I dont think it fair or reasonable to 
make any direction that Royal London should pay Mr M compensation directly for any 
potential investment losses.
But there is no doubt that the failure of Royal Londons systems will have caused significant 
distress and inconvenience to Mr M. And that will have been amplified by the extended 
period both before Royal London was able to explain to Mr M what had happened, and 
before normal access to his pension plan was restored. And Mr M is left in the position 
where Royal London cannot provide any assurances that a similar problem might not occur 
in the future. So I think a substantial award is warranted.
Ive thought carefully about the level of award that should be made. As I noted earlier 
Royal London has suggested that it thinks an award between £1,000 and £1,500 would be 
fair. Like our investigator, I think a payment at the top of that range is appropriate to reflect 
the problems that Mr M has faced.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M. He was no doubt let down by 
Royal London when its systems developed the fault that prevented access to his pension 
investments. But as Ive explained above I have no way of reasonably determining whether 
those restrictions caused him any loss, or if so what that loss was. So I think a payment to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience he was caused is fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
Royal London should pay Mr M £1,500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused by the systems problems he experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman