DRN-2836027
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy because she says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her income protection
insurance policies.
What happened
In 2000 Mrs E took out a mortgage and an income protection policy. In 2006 she took out a
new mortgage and cancelled the income protection policy. However, she took out two further
income protection policies. Mrs E complained to HSBC about the income protection policies
and other financial products she had bought.
In their final response letter HSBC acknowledged that the 2006 policies meant that Mrs E
was over-insured. This was on the basis that had HSBC been aware of the mortgage
payment protection insurance (MPPI) Mrs E had already, theyd have recommended an
income protection policy with a lower benefit. HSBC calculated the difference between the
cost of two policies and offered to refund the difference, together with £250 compensation.
Mrs E was offered £963, inclusive of the compensation. Unhappy, Mrs E complained to our
service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She thought that the policy sold in 2000 had
been mis-sold, based on the information she provided about her demands and needs at that
time. However, she thought the offer made in relation to the 2006 sale was fair and
reasonable. HSBC asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In March 2021 I issued a provisional decision and explained that I wasnt intending to uphold 
this complaint. I said: 
Mrs E took out a number of financial products which shes made complaints about 
but Im making a decision about the income protection policies.
HSBC provided Mrs E with advice about the policy and therefore it needed to take
reasonable steps to ensure that the income protection policies were suitable for her
demands and needs. And, they also needed to give her enough information to decide 
if the policy was right for her.
Income protection policy sold in 2000
Mrs E explained that she thought she had to take out the policy in order to get her 
mortgage. But the mortgage application form explained that Mrs E wasnt required to 
take any insurance out. So Im satisfied, based on the available evidence, that it was 
made clear the policy was optional and that the mortgage didnt depend on taking out 
the policy.
Mrs E declined an Income Protection For Mortgages policy as she didnt consider it a 
priority at that time. But, I dont think it automatically follows that she didnt have an 
interest in other income protection products. The advisors notes, which Ill refer to in 
more detail below, indicate that income protection was important to Mrs E at that 
time.
I also think HSBC did take reasonable steps to ensure that the policy met Mrs Es 
demands and needs. Mrs E said that her employer would give her six months full pay 
and six months half pay.
This policy would pay out £290 per month after shed been off work for more than 52 
weeks. Mrs E didnt have any financial protection if she was unable to return to work 
at that point. She identified income protection as a higher priority than other financial 
products and the advisor noted that:
You have emphatically stated to me that it is extremely important that in the
unfortunate event of a claim your monthly benefit would continue until your
anticipated retirement age of 60. You have also requested that your monthly benefit
be limited, at this moment in time, to that which would be provided through Income
Protection for Mortgages for the minimum monthly premium of £6.00. I recommend
therefore Individual Income Protection Plan providing an initial monthly benefit of
£290 payable after 52 weeks consecutive disablement and at a monthly premium of
£7.95 to which you have agreed.
The advisor also noted that the plan would help Mrs E to maintain her standard of 
living if she should become unable to work as a result of an accident or long-term 
disability. As Mrs E didnt have any form of financial protection in the event of long 
term illness I think that the policy recommended was suitable for her demands and 
needs at that time and reflected that her wanted some form of income protection but 
at a low cost. So, I dont think that the recommendation of this policy was 
unreasonable. And I think that HSBC gave Mrs E enough information about the 
policy so that she could make an informed choice about it.
The policies sold in 2006
Mrs E discussed her financial needs in detail with the advisor in 2006 when she was
committing to further borrowing. The advisor noted that Mrs E wanted to protect her 
standard of living and two policies he recommended complemented Mrs Es 
employee benefits. The first policy would have topped her income after 26 weeks, 
which is when shed have received half pay from her employer. And the other policy 
would have provided a benefit once her sick pay had run out. I also note that Mrs E 
made a successful claim which confirms she had a need for the protection that they 
offered.
HSBC has acknowledged that Mrs E did have an MPPI policy in place at that time 
and I think their offer to compensate Mrs E for the difference in the premiums is 
reasonable as Im persuaded that Mrs E still had a need for the income protection 
policies and that their offer to compensate her for the difference in the premiums is 
fair and reasonable.
HSBC accepted my provisional findings. Mrs E made further comments. In summary she 
said: 
The money she borrowed in 2006 wasnt a new mortgage  it was a further amount 
for home improvements HSBC were aware of other policies she had and they were sold by the same member 
of staff 
She was also making a complaint about term-assurance and life insurance policies 
which our service had upheld 
HSBC acknowledged that Mrs E was over-insured.  
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further comments havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint 
and, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs E, Im not upholding her complaint. I say that 
because: 
I dont think the purpose of the borrowing impacts on the outcome of this complaint. 
Mrs E was taking on a new financial commitment and therefore it wasnt 
unreasonable that HSBC reviewed her overall financial position at that time as part of 
those discussions 
HSBC has accepted in their final response letter that Mrs E was over-insured and 
refunded her the premiums for an MPPI policy. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
all the insurance products were mis-sold. The MPPI policy wasnt required because 
of the income protection Mrs E had taken out. For the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision I think Mrs E had a need for income protection, which is 
evidenced by the successful claim she made 
Ive also taken into account what Mrs E has said about HSBCs awareness of the 
financial protection she had in place. I explained why I didnt think the policies had 
been mis-sold in my provisional decision and I dont think Mrs E has presented any 
new or significant information which persuades me the policies were mis-sold 
Mrs E did purchase other financial protection products, which are different from the 
income protection policies Im considering. I need to look at this complaint on its own 
facts, and taking into account the specific features of it. So, whilst Mrs E has another 
complaint with our service, my role is to focus on the relevant considerations in this 
case. And, having done so, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman