DRN-2885661
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he got from Covea Insurance plc following a claim on his 
car insurance policy.
  
What happened
After Mr W was involved in a road traffic collision with a third party, he made a claim on his 
car insurance policy with Covea.
Covea has accepted it made mistakes when Mr W first notified it of the claim. These resulted 
in Covea accepting liability for the incident and closing Mr Ws claim as a fault claim, when it 
may have been able to dispute liability. To compensate Mr W for its failings, Covea 
reinstated Mr Ws no claims bonus (which had been disallowed), altered the claim details 
from fault to non-fault and offered him £100 for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused him.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr W brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it upheld it. He thought Covea should pay Mr W an additional £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused him.
Covea disagrees. So Mr Ws complaint has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I think Covea should pay Mr W an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Coveas response to Mr Ws complaint has focussed on its handling of his initial claim call, 
which it acknowledges was poor. It thinks £100 adequately compensates Mr W for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused, particularly since Covea also reinstated his 
no claims bonus and amended the claim to non-fault.
But, from what Mr W says, when he wanted to find out what was going on with his claim a 
few months after hed notified Covea of the incident, he had a hard time. He says phone 
calls werent followed up and he had to do all the leg work. He says his broker told him one 
thing and Covea something else. He says he went around in continuous circles with both 
companies before ending up having a friend speak on his behalf because it had become too 
distressing for him. He says it was only after many, many phone calls and going through its 
records that Covea found out what had gone wrong.
Its clear some of the distress and inconvenience Mr W has experienced was as a result of 
his dealings with his broker. And thats something I cant look at  or compensate Mr W for  
in this complaint about Covea. But it seems to me that the experiences Mr W describes with 
Covea itself were time-consuming, frustrating and upsetting. And I think in these 
circumstances an additional award of £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Coveas actions as a whole caused Mr W.
I understand Mr W is also unhappy with the service he got from his broker and an accident 
management company. But, just to avoid any doubt, my decision here is only to do with his 
complaint about Covea. 
I also understand Mr W is unhappy hes been charged a higher premium by his new insurer 
because, at the time he applied for the insurance, his claim had been logged as a fault 
claim. Our investigator has written to Mr W separately about this  and Ive got nothing more 
to add to what our investigator has already said.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr W, Covea should do as I direct below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to pay 
Mr W £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. This is in 
addition to the £100 it has already offered him. So Covea Insurance plc should pay Mr W 
£200 in total.
I understand Covea Insurance plc has already reinstated Mr Ws no claims bonus and has 
amended internal and external databases so the claim is recorded as a non-fault claim. But if 
it hasnt done any of these things, I direct that it should.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman