DRN-1588281
The complaint
Mr R complains that Claim4You Ltd is chasing him for a fee for his successful payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
Mr R instructed Claim4You to carry out a free PPI check on his behalf in March 2018. On 3 
May 2018, Claim4You sent Mr R some forms to complete to fully instruct it to pursue a claim 
on his behalf. Mr R didnt respond and Claim4You closed his case.
Following some further correspondence, Claim4You sent out its terms and a letter of 
authority (LOA) for Mr R to sign on 11 June 2018. Mr R signed these on 14 June 2018 and 
instructed Claim4You to make a claim against his lender.
Mr Rs claim was successful and he was paid the compensation from his lender. Claim4You 
then invoiced Mr R for its success fee of 36% (inclusive of VAT) of the total compensation. 
Mr R complained as he believed the fee had already been deducted, as such he didnt think 
he should pay again. As Mr R didnt pay, Claim4You instructed a debt collector to pursue Mr 
R for the debt.
Mr R complained to this service. He explained that he felt the fee shouldve been taken from 
his compensation before received it. He also complained that he didnt know the fee was 
36% and felt it should be less.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He explained that Claim4You made it clear in 
both the terms and the invoice that fees were payable after Mr R had received his 
compensation. And he hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr R was told it would be deducted 
before he received it. So, he felt Mr R should have to pay a fee. But he explained that the fee 
being pursued should be reduced. This is because the terms that Mr R signed were sent on 
11 June, after Claims Management Companies (CMCs) had to tell their new or potential new 
clients of the fee cap being introduced. He felt Mr R wouldve waited to instruct Claim4You 
had he known about the fee cap being introduced, so he felt the fee should be reduced to 
20% plus VAT.
Neither Mr R or Claim4You responded to our investigator. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for similar reasons.
When the fee was payableMr R understands that a fee would be charged for the work Claim4You completed, but he 
believed that it would be deducted from the compensation before he received it. Ive looked 
at the notes that Claim4You have and I cant see anywhere that Mr R was told this. Ive also 
seen the terms that Mr R was sent and signed. These say:
The fee becomes payable by the Client immediately upon receipt of the Compensation in 
whatever form.
I think this suggests that Mr R would have to receive his compensation before he pays the 
fee. In addition to this, the letter Claim4You sent Mr R explaining that his claim had been 
successful says:
Please find your attached invoice and our bank details, you should make your fee payment 
within 7 days of receiving you refund.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr R was told anything other than this. So, I think he 
ought to have been aware that he had to pay his fee after hed received his compensation, 
rather than it being deducted beforehand.
The amount of the fee
I can see that Claim4Yous terms say the fee is 36% of any compensation awarded. And I 
understand this is what it is currently pursuing Mr R for. But I dont think it should be 
charging a fee of 36%. Instead I think that it should charge a fee of 20% plus VAT in line with 
the fee cap that the Claims Management Regulator put in place in 2018. Ill explain why.
Mr R asked Claim4You to do a free PPI check on his behalf in March 2018. But this wasnt 
him instructing it to make a claim. I understand Claim4You then sent him some terms to 
sign, but Mr R didnt respond to this. Claim4You told Mr R on 31 May 2018 that it had closed 
his case. It continued to contact Mr R and did so on 11 June 2018 with another copy of its 
terms. It was these that Mr R signed.
The Claims Management Regulator introduced a fee cap in July 2018 which said that CMCs 
can charge a maximum fee of 20% plus VAT for successful PPI claims. The regulator 
clarified this on 11 May 2018 by explaining that CMCs had to inform new or potential new 
clients of the fee cap. I cant see Claim4You did this. I appreciate that it had originally sent 
terms to Mr R before 11 May 2018. But it then closed his case. When it decided to make 
contact with Mr R again, and send him the terms on 11 June 2018, it shouldve informed him 
about the fee cap. If it had done so, Im persuaded that Mr R wouldve waited to pursue his 
claim against his lender if he was aware that the fee would be less  especially as this was 
only a month later in Mr Rs case. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Claim4You should only pursue Mr R for a fee of 20% plus VAT of the 
compensation he received from his lender. Claim4You must update the debt collector it has 
instructed to pursue this fee.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. The fee that Claim4You are pursuing Mr R for must not be 
more than 20% plus VAT of his compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman