DRN-3496000
The complaint
Mr B complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money he lost when he fell victim to a 
property rental scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. In brief, both parties accept that Mr B was the victim of a scam when he attempted to 
rent a flat in November 2021. 
The scammer had responded to a website post Mr B had placed looking for a rental. They 
made contact with Mr B and provided with a considerable amount of documentation - 
relating to a property supposedly available to rent in Mr Bs chosen area. 
This all appeared genuine and legitimate to Mr B. He made arrangements to view the 
property a few days later. However, the supposed landlord pressured Mr B to pay a deposit 
now to secure the flat. He was told there had been a lot of other interest. The property 
appeared to be exactly what he needed, and the price was reasonable, so he decided to go 
ahead.
Mr B was sent a formal tenancy agreement and made payments for a security deposit and 
one months rental in advance, sums of £300 and £600 respectively. These amounts were 
as specified in the tenancy agreement.
But Mr B was then unexpectedly asked to pay a further two months rent payments upfront. 
When he tried calling the landlords phone number to query this, it was no longer active. 
Prompted by these concerns, Mr B carried out more detailed research online. He found the 
phone number hed been given was listed on a website saying it was a scam and there had 
been other victims. 
He reported the matter to Monzo, explaining that as a consequence of the scam hed been 
left in financial difficulties and was struggling to pay basic living expenses.
Monzo didnt refund Mr B. It didnt dispute that he had been the victim of a scam but said 
that he hadnt exercised sufficient caution when making the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles set 
out in it.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams) in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Monzo said one or more of those circumstances (or exceptions) applies in this case. It said 
Mr B made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing he was paying for a 
genuine rental.
However, Monzo later said it would refund half of the smaller payment, crediting his account 
with £150 on 6 January 2022. And it said it would pay Mr B £25 compensation  because it 
accepted it hadnt acted promptly in contacting the bank to which Mr B had sent that 
payment.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld in 
full. The Investigator didnt think Monzo had fairly assessed Mr Bs claim under the CRM 
Code. He didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish that Mr B had made the 
payments without a having a reasonable basis for believing it was a legitimate transaction. 
He thought that Mr B had taken sufficient care in the circumstances, and Monzo should 
reimburse him in full.
Monzo maintained its position. So, I have been asked to make a final decision on the 
outcome of Mr Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr B 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should now fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr B 
lost.
The money was sent from Mr Bs Monzo current account. It is not clear how Mr B 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But 
if Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr B 
would not have been deprived of it for the time he has. So, Monzo should also pay 
interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest 
should apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Mr B, to the date of 
settlement.
Monzo has already accepted it could have acted more promptly in reaching out to the 
receiving bank for one of the payments and it offers Mr B £25 for this failing. In all the 
circumstances here, I consider it fair and reasonable that Monzo should pay a higher 
sum in respect of the impact of its handling of Mr Bs scam claim overall. I consider 
the fair and reasonable award here would be £150 (this being an additional £125 on 
top of Monzos current offer).
In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides as well 
as the relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Of particular relevance here, the CRM Code says that the victim of an APP scam such as 
this should reimbursed unless the bank is able to establish that one (or more) of the limited 
exceptions to reimbursement can be applied. Ive considered all of the points Monzo has 
raised. But I find that Monzo has not been able to show that Mr B made these payments 
without having a reasonable basis for believing he was making these payments for a 
legitimate rental property.
One of Monzos principal arguments is that, although this may have been a relatively 
sophisticated deception, Mr B shouldnt have made the payment prior to seeing the property in person. However, I dont agree that this point establishes that Monzo acted fairly in 
denying full reimbursement to Mr B under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im persuaded by the evidence available that Mr B was pressured by the threat of losing the 
property to other prospective tenants. In the context of the competitive nature of the rental 
market in recent years, I dont think this was an implausible concern.
In those circumstances I dont find Mr B acted unreasonably in believing he needed to make 
these two payments as holding deposits for the property. I dont think that his not waiting 
until hed seen the property in person (rather than just in photos) meant he was making 
these payments without holding a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate.
Of relevance, amongst other documentation hed seen photos and a description of the 
property that made him believe the property would be suitable for what he needed. His 
interactions with the scammer didnt prompt concern that they werent as legitimate as they 
appeared, and having reviewed what was said, I dont consider that was unreasonable for 
him to draw that conclusion either. This scam was carried out in a calculated manner. The 
documentation and correspondence Mr B saw were essentially just as hed expect had this 
been legitimate.
Im satisfied the evidence indicates that Mr B had taken reasonable and proportionate steps 
- given the nature and value of these payments amongst the other circumstances. There 
was nothing specific here that I consider should have been a glaring red flag that all might 
not have been as it seemed. 
Monzo says being asked to pay a deposit to secure the property prior to having viewed it in 
person ought to have been such a red flag  I dont agree. I consider it reasonable for Mr B 
to have seen that as not atypical given the nature of the rental market in the period since 
Covid-19.
Had there been cause for concern on Mr Bs part, then I might find he shouldnt have gone 
ahead without being able to reassure himself through further checks or perhaps without 
physically viewing the property in person. But based on the evidence provided to me I am 
not persuaded there was anything here that ought to have prompted such concerns on his 
behalf. This would have appeared a legitimate transaction at the time. 
In short therefore, I find Monzo hasnt been able to establish that Mr B made this payment 
without having a reasonable basis for believing he was paying toward the deposit needed to 
secure a legitimate rental property from a legitimate landlord. 
It follows that I am not satisfied Monzo has established that it can fairly rely on the relevant 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code. Furthermore Im not persuaded that 
Monzo has established it may fairly apply any other exception to reimbursement under the 
CRM Code. It follows that Monzo should reimburse Mr B under the provisions of the CRM 
Code.Distress and Inconvenience
Mr B has explained the consequences of the scam, and the impact of losing this money. 
That included resultant financial difficulties and an impact on his ability to pay for day-to-day 
living expenses such as food. While most of the distress and inconvenience he describes 
stemmed from the actions of the scammer, not Monzo, I have taken account of the extent of 
the impact on Mr B attributable to Monzo itself - through its handling of the matter. Monzo 
has already accepted his claim wasnt handled as well as it should have been and has 
offered Mr B the sum of £25.
I am aware that the Investigator did not make an increased award in respect of distress and 
inconvenience in this case. But Monzo has already accepted fault and offered a sum for this. 
I agree with Monzo that an award is due for the material distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr B. I consider the fair award here to be marginally higher than Monzo has offered and 
given where we are in the overall complaint journey, I consider it would be fair for Monzo to 
pay an increased figure in line with this. 
In all the circumstances, I consider it is fair and reasonable that Monzo should pay Mr B a 
total sum of £150 in respect of the material distress and inconvenience it caused him here 
(being £125 in addition to the £25 it has already offered him).
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. 
I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr B:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £750;
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr Bs claim until the date of settlement; plus,
A total of £150 (being £125 added to the £25 Monzo has already offered to pay Mr B) 
in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B by Monzos handling of 
the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman