DRN-1418961
 
The complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
In 1999 Mrs M took out a mortgage with Halifax. Around the same time, she took out a 
PPI policy to protect her monthly mortgage payments if she was off sick, or if she lost her 
job. Mrs M paid a monthly premium for the policy.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs M's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms signed mortgage application form. It included a section 
about PPI, with a box to sign if the applicant wished to take the cover. Mrs M signed 
in the box, directly under the words  Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance (a form of PPI).  She also signed a separate application form 
for the PPI. So taking everything into account, I think Halifax made Mrs M aware that 
the PPI was optional. And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a 
choice - although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many 
years later.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs M. So it had a duty to check that it was suitable 
for her. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. 
 
Mrs M's told us she'd have been entitled to six months' full pay, followed by six 
months' half pay from her employer at the time if she'd been off sick. But if she'd 
made a successful claim under the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have covered her monthly mortgage payments for up to 24 months per 
successful claim. Thats significantly longer than Mrs M's told us she'd have been entitled to full sick pay for. What's more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mrs M received from her employer. So she could have used those to meet 
other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldn't have had to use any savings she may 
have had to make her monthly mortgage payments. 
 
I acknowledge that Mrs M's told us she already had an income protection policy. But 
from the evidence she's provided, it looks as if that policy had a waiting period of 52 
weeks before Mrs M could make a claim. If she'd made a successful claim on the 
PPI, on the other hand, it would have covered her from the start of her absence from 
work, provided that she was off for at least 30 consecutive days. So I don't think Mrs 
M's income protection policy meant that the PPI was unsuitable for her.
 
I've also borne in mind that the mortgage was significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mrs M's property, and the consequences of falling behind 
with her mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking everything into 
account, I think the PPI would have provided Mrs M with valuable peace of mind that 
her mortgage payments would continue to be made if she was off sick, or if she lost 
her job.
 
The monthly cost of the policy was shown on the PPI application. So I think Mrs M 
would have understood how much shed need to pay for it.
 
Its possible Halifax didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover. But from 
what she's told us about her circumstances at the time, it doesn't look as if Mrs M 
would have been affected by any of these. Ive borne in mind that Mrs M has told us 
that she may have suffered from some medical conditions when she took out the 
PPI. But it's not clear whether they'd been diagnosed when she applied for the PPI.  
And while some PPI policies don't allow claims for medical conditions that the 
policyholder already knew about when they took the policy out, this policy didn't have 
that sort of limitation. So even if Mrs M had already been diagnosed with the medical 
conditions when she took the PPI policy out, I don't think this meant that the policy 
was unsuitable for her.
 
I've taken account of all Mrs M's comments, including what she's said about Halifax having 
undermined her confidence in her circumstances by raising the issue of PPI. She says it 
made her feel that she'd "be better to purchase the product as additional protection". I 
accept that it may be that Halifax recommended that Mrs M take the policy out as additional 
protection. But I'm satisfied that Mrs M knew that she had a choice about taking out the 
cover. And I've seen nothing to make me think that Halifax put pressure on her to take the 
PPI. So this doesn't change my conclusion. I don't find that the policy was mis-sold.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.Juliet Collins
Ombudsman