DRN-3674190
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the service she received during a number of call outs for 
assistance under her Homeserve policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Miss H made a series of call out requests to Aviva for plumbing repairs to different parts of 
her home between September 2021 and January 2022 under her Homeserve policy. 
Miss H complained to Aviva about the workmanship and behaviour of their appointed 
contractors. She said an inside tap was still leaking and required repair. But Miss H didnt 
want Avivas approved contractors to come to her home anymore.
In February 2022 Aviva said it was sorry for any upset and inconvenience caused by the 
conduct of the engineers who visited Miss Hs home. For the inconvenience caused, Aviva 
paid Miss H £50 compensation. That said, Aviva didnt agree that the engineers had 
provided an inaccurate level of diagnosis, quality of repair or caused any damage to Miss 
Hs property.
Aviva said it understood Miss Hs reasons for not wanting their contractors in her home. Miss 
H told Aviva she wasnt in a position to appoint an engineer to look at the issues. So Aviva 
said - based on the information it had from its engineers - it didnt uphold her complaint 
about poor repairs. But Aviva said it would welcome any further information Miss H provided. 
Miss H remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Aviva had dealt with Miss Hs complaint in a reasonable way - 
based on the information it had. She thought Avivas appointed engineers had provided 
reasonable explanations as to the works carried out. 
Miss H didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. She says she feels we have been 
biased and accepted the accounts given by the engineers over hers. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H and the Investigator have detailed the visits and what they were for and Ive read 
both Miss Hs account and Avivas notes as to the engineers record. I dont intend to list the 
visits again in my decision. The chronology provided by the Investigator hasnt been 
disputed by Miss H. I can assure Miss H I have carefully considered all of the information 
provided by both parties. 
I can understand Miss Hs upset and her feeling uncomfortable from what she has described 
during some of the visits. I can see that there were a number of visits between September 
2021 and January 2022 for issues with an external tap, a toilet and an internal tap. 
In July 2022 Miss H told us she fixed the leak from a replaced inside tap. Miss H provided a 
video to us to show an external tap was leaking. Miss H says this leak has been caused by 
works carried out by an engineer to replace the tap above this one. 
Having reviewed the video it shows a very infrequent leak from a tap that is very old and 
fragile. There isnt anything to persuade me from the video that the leak is due to damage 
caused by an engineer replacing the stop tap above the slow leaking one. 
I appreciate that Miss H feels there has been bias. Where there are disputing accounts, we 
look at what each side said and what the evidence shows. I can see that Aviva relied on the 
professional opinion of the contractors as to the workmanship carried out. But it offered for 
Miss H to provide something of equal value from an independent engineer to support her 
complaint about poor repairs. I can understand why Miss H hasnt done this. But I think 
Avivas decision to rely on the information it had from the engineers as to the works carried 
out - in the absence of anything of equal weight to contradict them - was reasonable. 
So I think Avivas decision to pay compensation of £50 to Miss H for the inconvenience 
caused was a fair and reasonable outcome to her complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss H, 
but this means Im not asking Aviva to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman