DRN-2821328
The complaint
Mr J complains that Quidie Limited, trading as Fernovo, lent to him irresponsibly in 2018.
Mr J also complains that he wrote to Quidie in February 2019 asking for help with repaying 
the loan and he says he received no help.
He also complains that he has been subjected to delay, stress and blackmail as this 
complaint has proceeded.
 
What happened
Quidie approved one loan for Mr J in October 2018. It was for £300 and the interest due on it 
was for £300. It was due to be repaid in instalments. Mr J has paid nothing back. 
The reminder emails, texts and letters commenced relatively soon after his first instalment 
repayment was missed and have continued. In February 2019 Mr J wrote to Quidie asking 
for help to repay the loan. He said he wrote three times and never got a reply from it.
In January 2020 he started a complaint for irresponsible lending. He received Quidies final 
response letter (FRL) in which it offered to reduce the interest due on the loan (by about 
£120), asked him to withdraw his complaint, and said that once the outstanding amount was 
repaid it would remove the loan from his credit file. Mr J declined this and said that the tone 
of the FRL was unpleasant in several ways. He interpreted the offer as being linked with his 
complaint withdrawal and felt that he was being blackmailed.  
After bringing the complaint to this Service in August 2020, it took some time for us to inform 
Quidie that Mr J had referred his complaint to us. We wrote to Quidie in November 2020. In 
the interim period, Quidie had continued to ask for the repayment and its collections 
departments got to the stage where court proceedings were the next step. Quidie has said 
that the collection process has been frozen since it learned that the complaint was with this 
Service in November 2020.  
Quidie altered its offer in December 2020 to one where it was content to remove all interest 
from the loan, leaving only the principal sum of £300 to repay, plus deletion of the loan from 
Mr Js credit file. I assume that deletion would be once the loan has been repaid. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and wrote to both parties in which he 
endorsed the offer to Mr J. Mr Js response was to say that he thought that the offer was 
acceptable but had come too late. He reiterated his concerns relating to the lack of help 
when he needed it and the other matters he felt Quidie needed to address too. 
Our adjudicator looked into the other elements of Mr Js complaint. He thought that Quidie 
had responded to Mr Js 25 February 2019 email asking for help in a timely manner. On the 
blackmail suggestion our adjudicator explained that once a resolution had been reached for 
a complaint then it is considered withdrawn and so he did not think that the FRL had been 
worded wrongly. 
Mr J was not satisfied and so the complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js complaint about the irresponsible lending has been resolved in my view. Mr J has 
made no payments towards the loan. If our adjudicator had investigated and upheld the 
irresponsible lending complaint (which he did not have to because of the concession by 
Quidie) then the outcome would have been in line with our usual approach. That would have 
been - for all unpaid interest and charges to be removed from the loan account, for the 
principal to be repaid by Mr J, and that the adverse payment information on the credit file be 
amended. 
Quidies offer is better than our standard approach as it has said that it will accept repayment 
of the principal sum only (£300) plus it will remove the loan from the credit file completely, 
not just amend his credit file.
I have seen Mr Js response which is that he thinks that the offer is acceptable in principle 
and this shows a compromise. So, for that reason I consider it to have been a resolution and 
I need not go into detail about that part of Mr Js complaint. I endorse that offer from Quidie.
 
As for the other elements of Mr Js complaint then I asked Quidie for additional information to 
assist me to look at the detail. This is what it sent to me in addition to what we already had:
Report of all notes on the system
Report on the emails and SMS log (inbound and outbound)
Content of all outbound email
Mr J has sent in screenshots of some of his email in-box. The combination of the details 
I have received from both parties leads me to come to some conclusions which I set out in 
the following paragraphs. 
By February 2019 Mr J had repaid nothing towards the loan and Quidie had been asking him 
for payment and its collections department had been involved. This is not unusual and 
I consider it reasonable. In February 2019 Mr J says that he sent emails to Quidie to ask for 
help. He said that he never received replies. This is unfortunate and I do not have an answer 
as to what happened about those early February 2019 emails. 
Then on 25 February 2019 Mr J wrote a very articulate email to express his change in 
financial circumstances and he listed substantial debt with other lenders. It warranted a 
reply. Mr J says he never received one, but I do not agree. I am satisfied that Quidie replied. 
I have seen from some of the detailed account notes, records and screenshots from Quidie 
(requested by me) that this email of 25 February 2019 was received and that Mr J was sent 
a detailed reply on the same day.
I have no reason to doubt that Quidies email was not received by Mr J. And I say this 
because his email address used by Quidie was the same as the one it had used for other 
correspondence with Mr J, and it is the same as the one he has given to us to use and with 
which we have successfully communicated with him. And, I have seen that his screenshots 
of his email in-box contains many other emails from Quidie which appear to have been 
received on many varying dates in 2019 and 2020. And, later in the following year, around 24 October 2020, Mr J did reply to Quidie on a 
subject relating to the threat of court proceedings which shows me that he did receive and 
respond to its emails. So, overall I am satisfied that its highly likely the reply email from 
Quidie to Mr J on 25 February 2019, sent almost immediately after his email to it was 
received, was received by Mr J. 
If I am wrong on this (which I dont think I am) and the reason for the non-delivery to Mr J of 
that Quidie reply in February 2019 was due to some technical issue then its not something 
Id be able to discover, and if that was the case then I dont think its likely Quidie could be 
held responsible for that. 
That email in February 2019 from Quidie was sympathetic as I would expect to see. It invited 
Mr J to call and contact Quidies representatives, and it invited him to send details in certain 
formats and copy documents to substantiate his changed financial circumstances from when 
he applied for the loan in October 2018. Quidie ended the email by saying: 
Once you have provided the above information, we will decide how to best help you 
and agree an affordable way forward. It is important for you to also bear in mind that 
both parties are responsible for being willing to cooperate with each other to reach an 
affordable repayments solution.
We have also attached an FCA factsheet to provide you with some useful sources of 
free and independent financial advice and help if you are experiencing financial 
difficulties.
We look forward to hearing from you, in any event no later than 11-Mar-2019. If you 
are unable to meet this deadline because you need more time to respond, please let 
us know any reasons. Please note that if we do not hear from you by this deadline, 
we may continue to take further and escalating collections actions on the basis that 
you have not evidenced your position and/or appear unwilling to mutually cooperate 
to reach an affordable solution.
The content of this email was appropriate, thorough, covered all aspects and gave Mr J 
options. Quidie did not hear from Mr J and the collections department restarted to pursue 
Mr J for the outstanding balance. And the ongoing chase emails continued to provide Mr J 
with options as to how to contact Quidie and how to make payments.  
So, I do not think that Quidie has done anything wrong and I do not uphold this part of Mr Js 
complaint. 
I do not think I need to make any determination about whether the earlier emails from Mr J 
were received by Quidie or not. I am satisfied from the evidence from both parties that this 
25 February 2019 was received by Quidie, that it did reply and I think that its highly likely 
Mr J received its reply. 
There was a long gap between Mr Js emails of 25 February 2019 and when Mr J 
commenced the irresponsible lending complaint in January 2020. In August 2020 he referred 
it to us. So, I do not find it unusual that Quidie may have continued to ask for the money 
during the interim period. And the emails contained contact details and explanations as to 
why he was being asked for the money and had details of how to rectify the situation. 
Following his complaint, Mr J received Quidies FRL dated 15 February 2020. I do not agree 
with Mr J when he complains that the tone and the wording of the FRL was inappropriate or 
designed to be upsetting in any way. Quidie said at the end:However, because you felt the need to file for an affordability complaint, we are 
ready to reduce the default interest on the last loan, if you withdraw your complaint, 
we will reduce the open balance to £480 instead of £600 Repaying this amount will 
close your balance.
To provide you with an incentive to close the account as soon as possible, we are 
willing to completely delete this account from your credit file, once repaid.
Quidies offer to resolve the complaint has improved since that FRL and it is the later, 
improved offer which I referred to at the start of this decision. 
FRLs must contain the referral rights to this Service and Quidies FRL did. Those referral 
rights gave Mr J the next steps if he felt that the resolution in the FRL was not what he 
wanted. I have seen Mr Js reply to Quidies FRL in which he makes his feelings clear and 
which was a total rejection of it. I do find that Mr Js description of it as blackmail is emotive 
and unnecessary. I do not uphold this part of Mr Js complaint. 
I accept what Quidie has said that it ceased to pursue Mr J for the monies outstanding from 
November 2020 when it was written to by this Service to inform it of the complaint referred to 
us by Mr J. I say that because I have seen the detailed account notes and I can see that the 
threatened County Court action was placed on hold. 
Reading all the correspondence I have, I think that Mr J is wanting the whole debt to be 
written off. I have thought about it but Mr J has had the benefit of the £300 original principal 
sum and its only right that he repays it. I see that he has recently offered some money on a 
repayment plan and so I hope that he and Quidie can come to an arrangement and I remind 
Quidie to treat him fairly when approaching him about the outstanding debt. 
Conclusion
I have not needed to make any findings in relation to the irresponsible lending part of Mr Js 
complaint as the offer by Quidie to resolve that part is a fair one and Mr J appears to have 
accepted it in principle. So, I do not uphold that part. 
Its a matter for Quidie to carry out the balance reduction and credit file deletion (once 
repaid) as it has offered to do. It is for Mr J to repay the £300 as he is bound to do. 
And as for the other complaint points, I do not uphold them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint, but I endorse the offer made by Quidie 
to Mr J. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman