DRN-2457584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that St Andrew's Insurance Plc has declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a home insurance policy with St Andrews. In March 2020 Mr D noticed 
that the contents of his garden shed were wet and that the roof was letting water in. He 
contacted a local builder who said the roof of the shed had been damaged by storms over 
the winter and that the shed would need to be replaced.
Mr D made a claim on his insurance. St Andrews sent out a loss adjustor to inspect the 
shed. The loss adjustor put together a report that concluded the damage was due to wear 
and tear, so the claim should be declined as this isnt covered under the policy.
In May 2020 Mr D contacted St Andrews to find out what was happening with his claim. He 
was told that it had been declined and that he had been informed by the loss adjustor. St 
Andrews then sent Mr and Mrs D a letter confirming this.
Mr D wasnt happy with this as he said he hadnt been informed of the declinature. Further 
he said his builder had confirmed the damage was caused by a storm so didnt think it was 
fair that the claim was declined. He made a complaint.
St Andrews agreed it could have provided better service and offered £75 compensation. 
However it said it agreed with the original declination of the claim.
Mr and Mrs D didnt think this was fair. They said St Andrews claimed the loss adjustor had 
called them to inform them the claim had been declined, but they hadnt received a call. 
Further they said they always looked after their property so didnt agree the shed hadnt 
been well maintained. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said she hadnt seen enough evidence that Mr and Mrs D were told about the declinature 
originally and this has caused them distress and inconvenience. She recommended St 
Andrews pay an additional £75 compensation to make up for this. However she thought St 
Andrews acted fairly by declining the claim.
St Andrews has now accepted that it didnt inform Mr and Mrs D of the declinature and 
agreed to pay the extra compensation. However Mr and Mrs D dont think it was fair that 
their claim was declined due to wear and tear. So their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 St Andrews has declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim as it says the damage to their shed is due to 
wear and tear not just because of a storm. 
 
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ds policy and I can see that it provides cover for damage 
caused by a storm. However under general exclusions it states it wont cover wear and tear. 
So I need to decide whether St Andrews were fair to conclude that the damage to Mr and 
Mrs Ds shed was caused by wear and tear rather than just because of a storm.
As our investigator advised, when considering whether a storm was the main cause of 
damage, we consider the following questions:
1. Were there storm conditions at the time the damage occurred?
2. Is the damage consistent with damage a storm would cause?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
In order for storm cover in a policy to fairly apply, I need to be satisfied that the answer to 
each of these questions is yes.
Mr D discovered the damage in March 2020 as this was the first time he mowed his lawn 
that year. Because of this, its not possible to know exactly when the damage happened. 
However it seems to have occurred at some point during the winter months. And its 
reasonable to assume there would have been storm weather in this time. So Im satisfied the 
first question can be answered yes.
I have then moved on to consider whether the damage is consistent with storm damage. 
From looking at the photos provided, I can see that the felt has come away at the edge of 
the roof and rain water has got in through the gaps this has left. Im satisfied this is 
consistent with damage that would be caused by a storm.
The question that is in dispute is the third one  whether storm damage was the main cause. 
St Andrews has provided a report from its loss adjustor. This explains that the mineral felt on 
the shed roof is at the end of its useful life, so storms in the winter have just highlighted this 
rather than being the main cause of the damage. 
I have looked at the photos provided as part of the report and I can see that the felt is 
showing signs of deterioration. It is coming away from the edge of the timber frame in places 
and is creased with visible tears in others. From the photos I think its a reasonable 
conclusion that the roof of the shed is at the end of its life and the damage is due to gradual 
wear and tear. 
Mr D disputes this. He says the builder he called out confirmed the damage was due to a 
storm. I have considered this explanation and looked at the document he has provided from 
his builder. While I can see he has concluded the damage is caused by a storm, the 
document is brief with just one line of explanation stating the probable cause was storm 
damage. The loss adjustor report contains photos and a detailed description of the damage. 
So on balance, I am more persuaded by St Andrews loss adjusters report.
When considering everything, I am more persuaded that the damage to the shed roof has 
been caused by wear and tear rather than just be a storm. So I think St Andrews has acted 
fairly by declining the claim on this basis.
 
I have also considered the service provided throughout the claim. St Andrews has now 
accepted that it didnt inform Mr and Mrs D about the declinature until they chased up the 
claim in May 2020. This was two months after the claim was made, which meant Mr and 
Mrs D couldnt make an progress in fixing the shed. Further it meant they had to contact 
St Andrews a number of times, as they were told they had already been informed of the claim status. This would have been very inconvenient for Mr and Mrs D. At Andrews 
originally offered £75 compensation to make up for this. And I agree with our investigator 
that this isnt enough and an additional £75 compensation, better reflects the inconvenience 
caused. So I will require St Andrews to pay an additional £75 compensation.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given, I require St Andrew's Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs D an 
additional £75 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman