DRN-3456978
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as M, has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was 
forced to close due to Covid-19.
M is represented in bringing its complaint by its partners, Mr M, Mrs M and Mr M1. 
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19.
RSA said the policy did not cover Ms claim. It said the policy provided cover for loss due to 
closure or restrictions of Ms premises only if a notifiable human disease manifested itself at 
the premises. But RSA thought that Ms business had been impacted by the Governments 
imposed restrictions rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19 and turned 
down Ms claim. 
RSA also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance 
test case did not impact the outcome of the claim under Ms policy wording. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, M brought its complaint to our service. M said that its 
business had been closed down by the Chief Medical Officer as required to make a claim 
under the policy. It was unfair for RSA not to pay the claim. 
Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but did not uphold it. He did not think that M had 
shown it was most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at its business premises.
M didnt agree and asked for a review. M said it would never be able to provide information 
to show a case of Covid-19 at its premises. M thought the policy was a waste of money and 
must have been mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ms business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ms claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Ms policy covers loss as a result of: 
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ms claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested itself at the 
premises, I think someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have 
displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
M says that its business was closed by the Chief Medical Officer as required to make a 
claim under the policy terms. By this I understand M to mean that the Governments imposed 
restrictions of a national lockdown met the policy requirement of closure or restrictions 
placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health of 
the Public Authority. 
I see the point M is making but the Government lockdown alone is not enough for Ms claim 
to succeed. M must also show that the closure or restrictions were as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the insured premises, as set out in the policy extension 
wording that I have quoted above. 
M has said that it is unable to provide any information to show that Covid-19 manifested at 
the insured premises. So, in this particular case there is not enough evidence for me to 
conclude that it was more likely than not that a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at the 
premises. This means that I dont think the extension provides cover in the circumstances of 
Ms claim and RSA was fairly entitled to turn down the claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome M was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay its claim.
M has said that the policy was a waste of money and must have been mis-sold. In this 
complaint I have decided only whether RSA fairly turned down the claim. As our investigator 
has explained, if M considers the policy was mis-sold then it would have to raise a complaint 
with the financial business which sold the policy to M. Our investigator can give M 
information about how to do this if required. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, Mrs M and 
Mr M1 to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman