DRN-3600320
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided unsuitable advice to open a
Stakeholder pension plan. As Mrs A is represented by a third party, Ill refer to all
submissions as made by Mrs A for ease of reading.
What happened
On 6 December 2012, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In it, I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
Mrs A met with one of Barclays Independent Financial Advisers in 2002. At the time, 
she was 48 years old, earning around £27,490 and employed as a teacher. Mrs A 
had been a member of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) since 1987. Mrs A had 
also contributed to a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan 
since 1996  she was advised to take out her FSAVC by another firm. In 2002, Mrs A 
expected to work until 2014, when she would turn 60.
Barclays IFA recommended Mrs A take out a stakeholder pension plan, contributing 
£234 a month  taking her annual contribution to the maximum allowed £3,600 after 
tax-relief. At the time, Mrs A also contributed £155.93 per month to a FSAVC held 
with another provider since 1996.
Mrs A retired in September 2012 and in 2013, she took her tax-free cash from her 
stakeholder plan and purchased an annuity (through another provider) with the 
remaining funds.
Mrs A met a friend in 2019, who she says made her aware she may have been better 
off by buying added years in the TPS or contributing to the TPS Additional Voluntary 
Contribution scheme (AVC) instead of contributing to her FSAVC and stakeholder 
pensions. Mrs A, through her representative, complained to her FSAVC provider, 
who upheld her complaint that she wasnt given enough information about the in-
house options available to her. The FSAVC provider offered Mrs A compensation on 
the basis that if shed been given suitable information and advice, she would have 
likely bought added years in the TPS. Mrs A also complained to Barclays that its IFA 
mis-sold her stakeholder pension because it didnt make her aware of the in-house 
options available to her through the TPS.
One of Barclays representatives called Mrs A in April 2021. Here is a short passage 
from a transcript of the call, which was prepared by Mrs As representative:
Barclays: [] Erm. I just wanted to clarify something. When did you first 
become aware of the situation - erm - your - erm - stakeholder plan - the 
[name of the pension provider] stakeholder-when were you aware of - erm - 
there was other options that you could have taken...
Mrs A: [cuts in and speaks over Barclays representative] Probably not until I 
actually retired and saw how little it was really.
Barclays: Okay. And thats going back to 2012 - 2013?
Mrs A: 12
Based on this call, Barclays concluded Mrs A should have been aware she had 
reasonable cause to complain about her stakeholder pension in 2012 and had made 
her complaint too late. Unhappy with Barclays final response, Mrs A referred her 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators reviewed Mrs As complaint, but 
thought it was referred to us outside of our relevant time limits. Mrs A disagreed, so it 
has been referred to me to decide whether this is a complaint we can consider.
I then went on to provisionally decide whether this is a complaint I can consider, setting out 
my provisional findings as follows: 
If Barclays doesnt consent, we cant consider a complaint if it was brought to us:
more than six years after the event theyre complaining about;
or if the six years have passed, more than three years from the date on which 
the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that they had cause for complaint.
Mrs A is complaining about the advice she received from Barclays IFA in 2012, 
which is more than six years ago. But I dont agree with Barclays, or our investigator, 
that Mrs A ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for complaint in 
2012. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to Barclays call with Mrs A, which is recorded in the transcript above. 
Mrs A did say she was aware of a situation, as Barclays put it, when she saw her 
fund value in 2012. But I dont think Mrs A meant she was aware of other in-house 
pension options available to her in 2012 - and theres no discussion of what those 
have might been in the call. I think Mrs A was clear she was disappointed with her 
pension fund once she retired. Mrs A has been consistent in her testimony that she 
was disappointed with the value of her pension fund in 2012, but had no reason to 
suspect her stakeholder pension had been mis-sold. I dont think it follows that 
Mrs As disappointment in her fund value, or annuity, should have made her aware 
she had reasonable cause to complain her pension was mis-sold to her because her 
IFA failed to make her aware of the in-house options available through the TPS. I 
note that after Barclays asked its question noted above, it went on to try asking Mrs A 
further questions. She explained shed been advised not to speak to anyone about 
the complaint, yet Barclays persisted in trying to ask her questions. From the call, I 
dont think Mrs A fully understood or was comfortable with the questions put to her.
Barclays said it believes that after noticing how 'little' she was getting, Mrs A was 
prompted to see that there were other options for her that she was not made aware 
of and thus she would have been made aware that the adviser did not provide the 
advice she was looking for. But Barclays has offered no evidence whatsoever to 
support its belief that Mrs A was prompted to see if there were any other options she 
was not made aware of. Mrs As testimony is she that she first became aware of the 
in-house options available to her in 2019, after speaking with a friend. This prompted 
Mrs As complaint. I think its likely this is when Mrs A became aware she had cause 
to complain, and she then made her complaint within three years. So I dont think 
Mrs As complaint was brought to us too late.I then went on to provisionally consider the merits of Mrs As complaint and what I thought 
Barclays should do to put things right as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the sales documentation, theres no evidence to suggest Barclays carried out 
any enquiry about the in-house options available to Mrs A. It didnt find out what the 
charges of a TAVC were, or the cost of buying added years, for example. There was 
simply no mention that Mrs A had in-house options available to her  and there was 
no prompt to Mrs A to make her own enquiries. As Barclays noted in its 
communications to our service, referenced above, it thought Mrs A would only have 
been prompted to investigate other options available to her in 2012  there was no 
reference to the in-house options at the time it sold the stakeholder plan to her. 
Knowing Mrs A had a FSAVC, Barclays IFA should arguably have sought 
information on the in-house options available to her and advised her on whether she 
should have contributed to in-house options or continued contributing to her FSAVC 
 but the firm that provided the initial advice to take out a FSAVC has already 
compensated Mrs A for the mis-sale of the FSAVC and losses caused by that.
In the absence of any information or advice about the in-house options available to 
Mrs A at the time the stakeholder pension was sold, Ive thought about what I think 
Mrs A would likely have done if she had been given suitable advice. In doing so, I 
noted the FSVAC provider compensated Mrs A as if she would have bought added 
years from the TPS, but its not for me to comment on what that provider chose to do. 
Having considered the evidence available, I think Mrs A would have likely contributed 
to her employers AVC in 2002 if Barclays had given her suitable advice on the in-
house options available. The stakeholder pension applied an annual charge of 1% of 
the pension fund. Its likely the AVC scheme provided by Mrs As employer had a 
significantly lower charge. So, at the time the stakeholder was sold, I think its likely 
contributing to an AVC would have looked like better value than investing in her 
stakeholder plan.
I dont think Mrs A would have chosen to buy added years in the TPS scheme. She 
could have afforded to buy several added years, but its unlikely she would have 
been able to buy the maximum possible added years. If Mrs A had bought added 
years, she would have had to give up a set percentage of her salary until retirement, 
and her contributions would have increased in line with her salary over the years. 
And whilst Mrs A chose to contribute the maximum annual contribution allowed to her 
stakeholder plan, she chose not to increase her contributions to her FSAVC in line 
with her earnings. I also note Mrs As attitude to risk was considered to be low, rather 
than very low risk  so I think an in-house AVC would have been a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs A - buying added-years would have been considered a very 
low risk option, which would have likely looked expensive in comparison to the AVC. 
On balance, I think its unlikely that in 2002, Mrs A would have chosen to
purchase any added years in the TPS and commit to increasing her contributions 
until retirement. I think Mrs A would likely have contributed to her employers AVC 
scheme if Barclays had provided suitable information and advice in 2002.
Putting things right
Ive thought about how to put things right for Mrs A. Barclays should undertake a 
redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, 
although I acknowledge that Mrs A plan is a stakeholder. But I think the redress 
methodology is still appropriate. Barclays should incorporate the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available 
for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses 
arising solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a 
benchmark index is used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any 
loss of employer matching contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the 
closest correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation 
requires ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared 
after 1 January 2005, Barclays should use the CAPS mixed with property index up 
to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index 
thereafter.
As it isnt possible to pay any compensation due to Mrs As pension, it should be paid
directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I provisionally uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Barclays didnt respond, but 
Mrs A did, saying she would have bought added years had her stakeholder plan not been 
mis-sold to her. She reiterated she could have bought five added years for around £200 per 
month  taking her to the maximum possible number of added years she was eligible for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays hasnt responded to my provisional decision, so theres nothing that has changed 
my provisional conclusions that this is a complaint we can consider for the reasons outlined 
above. And Barclays hasnt responded to my provisional decision that it mis-sold Mrs As 
stakeholder plan, so I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld. But Mrs A 
disagreed with my provisional conclusions about what Barclays should do to put things right 
for her, so Ive considered this point afresh.
Mrs A is likely right she could have afforded to buy five additional years from the TPS in 
2002, which would have cost less than the £300 she was contributing to the stakeholder 
plan. But as Mrs A was concerned about contributing the maximum possible to her pension 
provision, I remain of the view contributing to her employers in-house scheme would have 
been a suitable option because it would have allowed Mrs A to contribute the full £300 she 
chose to invest into the stakeholder plan, whereas buying added years wouldnt have used 
the full £300 she had available to save into a pension. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, Mrs As attitude to risk was considered to be low, rather than very low risk  so I 
think an in-house AVC would have been a suitable recommendation for Mrs A. And whilst 
we now know added years might have been a better option, I cant use hindsight when 
making decisions. I think its likely that, in 2002, buying added-years would have been 
considered a very low risk option, which would have likely looked expensive in comparison to the benefits that could be achieved by contributing to the AVC. On balance, I remain of 
the view its unlikely that in 2002, Mrs A would have chosen to purchase any added years in 
the TPS and commit to increasing her contributions until retirement. I think Mrs A would 
likely have contributed to her employers AVC scheme if Barclays had provided suitable 
information and advice in 2002. Because of this, I remain of the view Barclays should put 
things right as I set out in my provisional decision. For clarity, Ill set this out again below:
Putting things right
Barclays should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance. Although Mrs A was sold a stakeholder plan, I think the redress 
methodology is still appropriate. Barclays should incorporate the amendment below to take 
into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods 
after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Barclays should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
As it isnt possible to pay any compensation due to Mrs As pension, it should be paid
directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman