DRN-3253112
The complaint
Mrs B complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
declined a claim under her horse and rider insurance policy and that they handled her claim 
badly.  
What happened
For several years, Mrs B had a horse and rider insurance policy underwritten by NFU. This 
covered loss of her horse, vets fees, personal accident and liability, amongst other things.
In May 2020, Mrs B made a claim for veterinary treatment for her horse, which was suffering 
with problems with its liver. Sadly, Mrs B had to have the horse put to sleep in October 2020 
and made a claim for that loss.
NFU declined the claim. They said the policy excluded claims relating to conditions which 
either pre-dated the policy or had been subject to an earlier claim. And they referred Mrs B 
to a claim she made in 2013 when the horse had received treatment relating to a liver 
condition.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this decision and made a complaint to NFU. She said the claim had 
been wrongly declined because there was no proof that the condition she was claiming for in 
2020 was connected with the condition the horse suffered from in 2013.
Mrs B is also unhappy that shed been encouraged to make the claim when shed made an 
enquiry with her local NFU office. She said there had been unnecessary delays in NFUs 
handling of the claim. And she said theyd changed their reasons for declining her claim. 
Mrs B also says NFU continued to collect premiums after theyd been informed her horse 
had been put to sleep. She also later expressed her dissatisfaction with NFUs handling of 
her complaint. And complained that her telephone conversation with her local NFU office 
hadnt been recorded.
NFU maintained that their decision to decline the claim had been correct. They said the 
condition suffered by the horse in 2020 was the same condition which led to the claim in 
2013. They said the reasoning provided to Mrs B had changed based on new evidence 
provided by Mrs Bs own vet. 
They also said the telephone conversation between Mrs B and her local NFU office wasnt 
recorded because staff were working from home due to the COVID lockdown.
However, they admitted their handling of her complaint had been delayed and sent a cheque 
to Mrs B for £100 in compensation.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought that whilst NFU were justified in declining the claim, they hadnt 
necessarily provided an acceptable service to Mrs B.
She concluded that there were unnecessary delays in the claim handling. She felt NFU 
should have sought expert advice sooner  and shouldnt have declined Mrs Bs claim solely 
on the basis of the evidence from her own vet. 
She also noted that there was a delay in NFU confirming the horses death with the vet - and 
ceasing to take premium payments from Mrs B.
She thought these issues had caused Mrs B further upset and distress at a difficult time and 
asked NFU to pay a further £100 compensation to Mrs B for her trouble and upset.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants NFU to 
reconsider her claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy terms and conditions booklet includes a list of general exclusions, which apply 
to the whole of the policy. One of these general exclusions says:
We will not pay any claim which directly or indirectly arises from, or is connected 
with any accident, illness, disease or condition that happened, manifested, was 
present or had been diagnosed in the horse before the start of cover or, was the 
subject of a previous claim made under the policy.
That kind of term isnt unusual in this kind of policy. Its not hidden in the small print and its 
not ambiguous. It sets out pretty clearly what risks NFU arent going to cover - and its 
available to all potential customers when they receive the policy terms and conditions.
Theres no dispute that Mrs B made a claim in 2013 for treatment relating to problems with 
her horses liver. 
Her vet originally told NFU that the horse had been receiving treatments  supplements  
since that time until the time of the 2020 claim. And he said the symptoms expressed in 
2020 were possibly connected to the 2013 condition.
On that basis, NFU said the continuous treatment has clearly been for a continuous 
condition and declined the claim.
The vet then told NFU the treatment had been changed in 2020. A particular supplement 
had been provided from 2013, but a different treatment had been prescribed more recently.
NFU quite rightly took that new information into account. They also quite rightly realised that 
they now needed an expert view as to whether the 2020 issue was indeed a recurrence of 
the same (2013) condition or arose from it or was connected with it.
NFU referred the matter to an expert consultant veterinary surgeon, who concluded that the 
issues the horse experienced in 2020 were linked to the condition diagnosed in 2013. He 
said:
I am of the opinion that this animal suffered, in 2020, with acute liver pathology that 
caused symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy The clinical evidence indicates that 
the liver pathology this animal incurred in 2020 was a recurrence of a condition 
So, in essence, in this case, we have a veterinary expert saying the 2013 and 2020 episodes are linked and Mrs Bs own vet saying theyre possibly linked. Theres no expert saying 
theyre not linked.
Its not for me to re-assess Mrs Bs claim. I have to decide whether NFU have acted fairly 
and reasonably in light of the information they had at the time. And given the opinions 
offered by the experts, I cant sensibly conclude that NFU have acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mrs Bs claim.
Mrs B has told us that the horses symptoms were different in 2013 and 2020. And shes 
said the change in medication shows the conditions were not linked. But I dont think either 
of those facts is significant in the face of the expert evidence. Different symptoms will on 
occasion flow from the same root cause and different medications can be used to treat the 
same condition. And, as I say, the expert evidence here only points in one direction.  
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that the claim might have been handled with more speed  and, 
in particular that NFU should have referred the case to the veterinary expert sooner.
I also agree that there were unnecessary delays in the NFU confirming the horses death. 
They admit they initially approached the wrong vet for confirmation.
And I agree those delays and errors have caused unnecessary upset and distress for Mrs B. 
In my view, the £100 suggested by our investigator is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the additional distress Mrs B experienced at what must have already been a difficult time.
Just to clarify, Im not convinced that NFU did anything wrong in not recording the phone call 
when Mrs B rang her local NFU office for advice about a possible claim. 
In the circumstances at the time, it wasnt unreasonable to continue to provide a service for 
their customers, even if they didnt have the facilities to record phone conversations involving 
staff working from home.
Finally, in response to our investigators view, Mrs B said NFU should be made to pay back 
the premiums they continued to collect after the horses death. 
I believe we were under the impression those premiums had been refunded. But if they 
havent  because NFU were awaiting the outcome of our investigation  they should be 
refunded now.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay Mrs B £100 in 
compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman