DRN-3228335
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc should have done more to stop Mr B losing 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only 
an overview of the key facts here. 
Mr B saw an advertisement for a financial services company (which Ill refer to as J) in a 
respected financial newspaper and registered his interest. J later contacted him about a 
holiday rental company going public and offered Mr B the opportunity to buy shares ahead of 
the initial public offering.
Mr B spoke to J on the phone and recalls that the caller was very knowledgeable and 
professed to have significant experience in the field. Mr B explains that he has made 
investments before, both personally and professionally. He recognised J and explains that 
he undertook his own research into the investment proposal to ensure that he was investing 
in something genuine and with good prospects of success. Unfortunately, Mr B was 
interacting with fraudsters who had cloned a genuine investment firm and were mirroring its 
products and procedures. 
Mr B made 30 payments from the joint current account towards various investments offered 
by J across a six-month period. In this complaint, I am only considering whether HSBC is 
responsible for refunding the transactions Mr B made on 15 October 2018. These are the 
transactions Mr B has specifically complained to HSBC about. 
On 13 September 2018, Mr B made the first payment to J. He transferred £3,740 to the UK 
bank account details hed been provided with. Mr B explains that when he subscribed to the 
shares, everything was as it should be. He was provided with reports on share performance 
along with brokers reports and key facts documentation to review before deciding to 
proceed. Mr B received a contract note once each trade was executed. He explains the 
documentation he received and the interactions he had were professional, so he had no 
reason to think they were not from the genuine investment firm. 
Mr B told his son about the investment opportunity and he was also interested. As Mr Bs 
son lives abroad, Mr B took the lead on taking the matter forwards on his behalf. Mr B recalls 
that J told him that it would be possible to invest larger sums of money into the holiday rental 
company shares, but the funds would have to be transferred via Hong Kong.  
On 2 October 2018, Mr B received £100,000 from his son. Between 3 October 2018 and 
5 October 2018, Mr B made seven international payments totalling £107,000 to an account 
held in Hong Kong. 
These payments did not credit the beneficiary account. By 15 October 2018, £99,760 had 
been returned to Mr Bs current account, with a further £6,960 being recredited on 
17 October 2018. An administration charge of £40 had been deducted from each 
unsuccessful payment. 
The fraudsters gave Mr B the details of another bank account and said he should be able to 
make the payments to that account without a problem. On 15 October 2018, Mr B made six 
transactions totalling £100,000, again to a bank account held in Hong Kong. 
In November 2018, the fraudsters told Mr B the money had still not been received. Mr B 
contacted HSBC and asked to recall the payments, suggesting the address of the 
beneficiary bank may have been incorrect and the funds could have gone to the wrong place 
as a result. HSBC sent a recall request but discovered the funds had credited the account 
successfully. 
HSBC continued to try and recall the funds. When there was no substantive update by 
February 2019, Mr B raised a complaint. On 25 February 2019, HSBC received confirmation 
that the funds had been withdrawn from the beneficiary account and could not be recovered 
as the beneficiary account was now closed.  
On 5 March 2019, HSBC contacted Mr B to provide the information it had received. The 
banks notes of the conversation say it suggested the possibility that Mr B had been a victim 
of a scam and urged Mr B to call the genuine financial services company to follow things up.  
Mr B contacted the genuine J to try and confirm the investments had been made and 
uncovered hed been tricked. He reported the matter to Action Fraud and the police. He 
points out that the police told him HSBC was at fault for not carrying out due diligence when 
he was transferring large sums of money. The police concluded its investigations and 
advised Mr B to report the scam to HSBC. He did so on 4 December 2019. 
HSBC looked into the payments totalling £100,000 that Mr B had made on 15 October 2018 
and said it would not reimburse the money that had been lost. Mr B complained about the 
banks decision.   
On 24 December 2019, HSBC issued its final response. It said there was very little it could 
do to help. It explained it had made the payments in line with Mr Bs instructions and had 
tried to recover funds from the beneficiary bank but had not been successful. Mr B didnt 
agree with the banks position so referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened and thought HSBC ought to have 
been concerned about the payments Mr B was making. He thought it was out of character 
for him to make international payments of this size. He said HSBC should have made further 
enquiries about the purpose of the payments before allowing them to be made. He thought 
that if the bank had done so, it would have uncovered the scam and prevented the loss. He 
concluded the bank should refund all of the payments made from 3 October 2018 onwards. 
HSBC did not agree and challenged which transactions fell within the scope of this dispute. 
In summary, it said it was not clear how Mr B came to pay multiple beneficiaries if he was 
intending on investing with J. It also didnt think Mr B would have accepted this was a scam if 
the bank had discussed the payments he was making. It felt Mr B was financially 
sophisticated and very confident about the investments he was making. 
It felt that what Mr B would have most likely said if asked would have reassured the banks 
staff he was not at risk of financial harm from fraud. The Investigator that had initially looked into Mr Bs complaint then left the service. A new 
Investigator was appointed, and he considered HSBCs objections whilst reviewing the file 
afresh.  
Our second Investigator explained that the scope of this complaint only extended to the six 
international payments Mr B made on 15 October 2018 as these were the only payments 
that had been formally disputed. 
He agreed that the transactions Mr B made were unusual and that his payment activity ought 
to have given HSBC cause for concern. He thought the bank should have explored why Mr B 
was making the payments to make sure he wasnt at risk of financial harm. But he was not 
persuaded HSBCs intervention would have uncovered the scam. He noted the depth of the 
checks Mr B had made into the investment alongside the context of the transactions and 
thought Mr B would have been able to satisfy HSBC that he was dealing with a genuine firm 
and making a legitimate investment. He thought it would have been difficult for HSBC to 
have identified Mr B was at risk of being scammed. He noted this was a very sophisticated 
scam that had cloned a genuine firm. As such, he didnt think an intervention from HSBC 
would have changed Mr Bs decision to make the payments. 
Mr B disagreed and thought the outcome not to refund any of the loss was unfair. He pointed 
out that it contradicted the opinion expressed by the previous caseworker. He also 
highlighted that his son had referred a complaint to this service about the money hed sent 
directly in connection to the same scam and received a different outcome. Mr B asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed afresh by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr B has referred to other determinations reached by our service. But I would point 
out that, while on the surface complaints may seem similar, each complaint is determined by 
its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should HSBC have 
recognised Mr Bs payments as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, 
would it have made a difference to what happened. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having considered whether HSBC could, or should, have done more to stop Mr B making 
the payments he did on 15 October 2018, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to 
take responsibility to refund the money Mr B has lost. I can understand this will be a very 
disappointing outcome for Mr B so I will explain why.
I accept Mr B has been the victim of a sophisticated scam. I am also mindful that Mr Bs 
losses to this scam encompass more than the transactions at the heart of this complaint. 
There is no doubt in my mind that he has lost a sum of money that most people would 
describe as life changing. But this alone doesnt mean that Mr B must be reimbursed by the 
bank. That all depends on whether the bank could have done any more to prevent the scam 
from taking place or intervened so that Mr B would have realised what was happening.In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Although the 
money was not intended to go to a fraudster, Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should 
fairly and reasonably:
  Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
HSBC should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations, such as a 
customer making a larger payment then they would typically make to a new payee. These 
can be indicators that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Looking at the way the account Mr B made the payments from typically ran, the account 
activity in October 2018 does stand out as being unusual. The account is typically used for 
day to day spending and keeps a running balance of around £1,000 in it. Whilst there are 
occasional larger transactions in and out, they appear to be for recurring payees. On 
15 October 2018 Mr B was sending large sums of money internationally and the payments 
were being made in quick succession. This was against the backdrop of previous large 
international payments to the same country being returned. In the space of around two 
weeks, Mr B had received £100,000 into his account and had tried to transfer those funds 
abroad shortly after receipt. There were indicators present that Mr B might have been at risk 
of financial harm. The transactions he was making in early October 2018 stood out 
considerably compared to the types of transaction he usually made. Im also mindful that a 
bank should seek to prevent its bank accounts from being used to further financial crime and 
Mr B was making large payments internationally to Hong Kong without being questioned.
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But the 
movement of a significant amount of money to Hong Kong and the previous return of those 
funds to Mr Bs account ought to have caused HSBC to ask additional questions. So, having 
thought about everything in the circumstances of this particular case, I consider HSBC ought 
reasonably to have intervened to explore the payments Mr B was making when he initiated 
further transactions to another beneficiary account in Hong Kong on 15 October 2018.Although I consider HSBC ought fairly to have intervened to find out more about the 
payments Mr B was making, this in and of itself isnt enough for me to say that the bank 
should refund all of the money Mr B went on to lose as a result of those payments being 
made. I also need to be persuaded that the banks intervention would have made a 
significant difference and ultimately prevented the payments from being made. When making 
that decision, I have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened, taking into account what I know from the information 
that is available to me.
Ive thought carefully about whether HSBCs intervention would have prevented Mr Bs loss. 
But on balance, Im not persuaded interaction with the bank when Mr B began initiating 
further payments to Hong Kong would have been enough to stop him from sending the 
money. 
If HSBC had spoken to Mr B, I think he would have told the bank he was buying shares 
ahead of an initial public offering. I am persuaded that Mr B would have been open about 
that because at the time he fully believed he was in touch with a legitimate financial services 
company. Hed received reports and documentation about the opportunity that appeared 
genuine. Hed undertaken his own research, both into the underlying investment and into the 
financial services company he thought he was dealing with. Im also mindful that he was not 
cold called out of the blue and the contact hed had with the fraudsters masquerading as J 
came about in response to an enquiry that hed initiated.
Even though Mr B would have most likely told HSBC the purpose of the payment was linked 
to an investment, I dont think it should have just accepted that rationale at face value. At the 
time of the scam HSBC ought to have been aware of the prevalence of investment scams, 
even upon establishing that Mr B was investing via what appeared to be a genuine 
investment firm. 
It is worth explaining that fraud and fraudsters methods continually evolve over time, as in 
turn does a banks awareness of different types of scams and the tactics fraudsters use to 
defraud their victims. When considering this complaint, I have to think about what I can 
reasonably have expected HSBC to have been aware of and on the lookout for at the time 
these payments were made. At the point these payments were made the most typical 
hallmarks of cloned investment scams involved victims being cold called, being offered 
returns that were too good to be true and being pressured.
With this in mind Id have expected HSBC to ask Mr B some questions about the payment, in 
the context of the particular features of this type of investment scam. For example, HSBC 
could have asked questions such as, but not limited to, what the payment was for, whether 
Mr B had been looking to invest, what research he had done, whether he had been cold 
called. If the bank had asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Mr B would have 
been able to confidently answer these questions without concerning HSBC he might be at 
risk of financial harm. 
I think Mr B would have explained that hed been looking to invest in certain industry sectors 
linked to his professional experience and expressed interest after seeing an advert in a 
respected financial newspaper. I think this would have been powerful and persuasive 
information for both parties. Mr B has said he had some awareness that fraudsters are able 
to clone firms but the starting point of the advertisement in the financial newspaper did not 
make him consider the possibility that he could be interacting with fraudsters. I can 
appreciate that an advertisement in a leading publication would give the advertiser an air of 
legitimacy and gravitas. It gave Mr B confidence and I think it would have likely provided 
HSBCs staff with assurance too. Mr B had also carried out his own research specifically into the investment he was intending 
to make. The initial public offering was genuine and for a well-known company that operates 
across the world. I think Mr B would have spoken confidently about the company he was 
looking to buy the shares in. Im also mindful that Mr Bs bank statements show that he 
regularly invests in shares and its possible he would have had more knowledge and 
experience than the banks helpline staff that he would have spoken with.  
Considering the belief I think Mr B had that he was dealing with the genuine financial 
services company, along with the fact that this scam also carried many sophisticated 
features where the fraudsters had mirrored the look and feel of the legitimate firm, I dont 
think there was enough opportunity here for either Mr B or HSBC to have recognised that he 
may have been at risk of financial harm. 
I think the answers Mr B would have likely given to HSBC if it had asked any questions 
would have been persuasive and plausible in all the circumstances. I dont think HSBC 
would have had reasonable cause to suspect the transaction was linked to a scam. The 
scam Mr B fell victim to was highly sophisticated for its time and it didnt carry the obvious 
hallmarks that I could reasonably expect HSBC to have been on the lookout for at that time.  
Its likely the information Mr B would have provided if asked to do so would have been 
enough to satisfy HSBC that he was not at risk of financial harm. As such, I dont think 
HSBCs failure to intervene has resulted in the loss he has suffered.
Our Investigator speculated that the only step HSBC could have recommended to potentially 
uncover the scam would have been for Mr B to have called J on the contact number 
provided on the FCAs website. But whilst Mr B recognises it as something he could have 
done, he said it was unlikely anyone would do this in practice. So, on balance, even if the 
bank had advised him to take this step before sending funds, Im not persuaded Mr B would 
have felt it necessary to heed the advice. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether the movement of the money to Hong Kong and the 
previous return of the funds should have stood out as being unusual to either party. I have 
asked Mr B if he can recall why the funds were to be invested via Hong Kong, but he did not 
express any concern about the arrangement. Even if the situation had struck HSBC as 
potentially being unorthodox, I think, on balance, Mr B could have explained the situation 
sufficiently to allay any unease the bank may have had. From the information I have seen 
and considering the circumstances of what was happening, I think Mr B had a misplaced 
confidence in what he was doing because of the slick operation the fraudsters had created. 
The persuasiveness of their literature, combined with the interactions theyd had and the 
research Mr B had undertaken into the viability of the underlying share option would have left 
Mr B entirely confident that he was making legitimate payments to what seemed like a 
legitimate source.  
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr B. Fraudsters are masterful at manipulation and gaining 
trust so I can understand that losing so much money in the circumstances that Mr B did 
would have come as a shock. But for the reasons I have explained, I cant fairly or 
reasonably say that HSBC are responsible for an act or omission that allowed the scam to 
happen.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman