Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint is about two claims Mr A made on their Amtrust Europe Limited 
(Amtrust) legal expenses insurance policy, which were declined.
Mr A feels that Amtrust were wrong to decline his claims.
All references to Amtrust include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr A made two claims on his and Mrs Bs legal expenses insurance policy. The first was in 
relation to the purchase of a television and the manufacturers refusal to provide a 5-year 
warranty in respect of it. The second claim was in relation to a dispute over the installation of 
some blinds which Mr A said wouldnt fully close and began making noises. 
Amtrust considered Mr As claims and declined to cover them. They said the breaches of 
contract alleged by Mr A occurred before he purchased insurance with them, and this meant 
the claims werent covered. Mr A didnt agree. He said the policy also contained a term that 
meant the claims hed made would be covered if he held equivalent cover with Amtrust or 
another insurer continuously from or before the date on which the agreement he was 
claiming for was made. Mr A said he did have equivalent continuous cover with another 
insurer, so Amtrust should fund his claims.
Amtrust considered this but took the view it made no difference because the breaches of 
contract occurred before the policy Mr A and Mrs B had with them was in place. Unhappy, 
Mr A and Mrs B referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered their complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld for broadly 
the same reasons reached by Amtrust. Mr A doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint. This is why. 
The starting point is the policy terms. It says:
"The insurance covers costs as detailed under the separate sections of cover, less £50
DRN-4465876Page 2 of 3for each section in legal expenses insurance where you appoint our panel solicitor, or £500 
where you do not appoint our panel solicitor, and payable at the request of the adviser up to 
the maximum amount payable where:-
a) the insured incident takes place in the period of insurance and within the European Union"
Insured incident is defined as:
The incident, or the first of a series of incidents, which may lead to a claim under this
insurance.
Period of insurance is defined as:
The period of time covered by this policy, as shown on your schedule, or until cancelled.
In this case Mr A and Mrs Bs policy started in June 2023. Mr As application for a five-year 
warranty with the manufacturer of the television was rejected in April 2023. And in the case 
of the second dispute, Mr A raised issues with the blinds not performing as he expected 
them to in June 2022. In May 2023 the company he was claiming against said they wouldnt 
accept the blinds back without Mr A paying postage for them in May 2023. So, I think its 
clear that the insured incident- namely the first in the series of incidents, which may lead to a 
claim, started before cover was in place.
Mr A says that the policy covers:
Costs to pursue a legal action following a breach of a contract you have for buying or 
renting goods or services for your private use. The contract must have been made after you 
first purchased this insurance unless you have held this or equivalent cover with us or 
another insurer continuously from or before the date on which the agreement was made.
Whilst it might be right that Mr A had equivalent continuous cover in place with another 
insurer before he took out his policy with Amtrust, I dont think this means they needed to 
cover his claims. Thats because the policy is clear that although theres an exception to 
when cover might be provided if the contract being claimed for was made before the policy 
was in place, this doesnt apply Where the breach of contract occurred before you 
purchased this insurance.  Indeed, this is set out in the policy under the heading What your 
policy does not cover. So, any claims Mr A wanted to bring for breach of contract needed to 
be for breaches that occurred after the cover was in place- namely in June 2023- in order for 
cover to engage. Given the detailed narrative Mr A has given about his claims, I have no 
doubt that those breaches occurred before that date.
Mr A has said that his previous insurer refused to cover the claims hed made because he 
notified them out of time. I cant comment on the reasons given by his previous insurer or 
whether I consider them to be fair here. I can only determine the actions of Amtrust and in 
the circumstances of this particular complaint, I take the view that it was fair for them to 
decline cover in the way that they did.
Mr A has also made the point that the wording of the policy suggests that the breach can 
occur before the start date of the policy but after the date he purchased the insurance. He 
says that in the case of the blinds, the breach of contract occurred in May 2023, and he 
purchased the insurance before this even though his insurance didnt start running until June 
2023. I dont interpret the facts of Mr As claim in this way. Although the ultimate issue Mr A 
was unhappy with was the blind company saying they wouldnt accept the blinds back 
without Mr A paying postage for them in May 2023, the breach of contract was not this 
specific incident. That wasnt the contract Mr A entered into with that company which he said 
was being breached. Rather the breach of contract complained of were the issues Mr A Page 3 of 3identified with the blinds themselves which he said were substandard. He identified this in 
June 2022, well before he purchased insurance with Amtrust. Because of this I dont agree 
that this is a claim Amtrust need to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint against Amtrust 
Europe Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman