DRN-3165491
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zurich Insurance PLC has turned down a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had an annual travel insurance policy which provided cover between 1 October 2019 
and 30 September 2020. On 29 September 2020, Mr D flew back into the UK from abroad. 
He was detained by the Police upon his arrival back at the UK airport and some of his 
personal money and possessions were taken from him. Mr D believed that some of the 
money and his property had been stolen from him by the Police. So he made a claim for the 
value of his money and items on his travel insurance policy.
Zurich turned down Mr Ds claim. It said both the baggage and personal money sections of 
the policy specifically excluded claims where customs or other officials had delayed, 
confiscated, or detained items. It concluded that the circumstances of Mr Ds claim were 
caught by these exclusions.
Mr D was unhappy with Zurichs decision. He said his property had been stolen by the 
Police. And he felt his ethnicity had played a part in Zurichs decision to turn down his claim. 
He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He felt Zurich had fairly 
assessed Mr Ds claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. He also didnt think hed 
seen any evidence to suggest Zurich had treated Mr D differently because of his ethnicity.
Mr D disagreed. He said that only his phone had been taken by the Police, which he hadnt 
claimed for. The Police hadnt taken his other items or his money  he felt these must have 
been stolen between his departure on his return flight and his return to the UK.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think it was fair for Zurich to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy and the available evidence, to decide 
whether Zurich handled his claim fairly.
Mr D says he has lost some personal possessions and some of his money. I dont doubt how 
upsetting this must be for him. Mr D considers that these items were stolen, although he now 
says he isnt sure when or where the theft happened. And I acknowledge that the terms of 
Mr Ds policy do cover the theft or loss of both baggage and personal money. 
However, its a fundamental principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to 
show theyve suffered a loss which is caused by something the policy covers. So Ive looked 
closely at the claim form and other information Mr D sent to Zurich to consider whether it 
fairly concluded that the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. 
On his claim form, Mr D stated:
Upon landing, I wasinterned for three days in (a) Custody Suite. Property was taken 
during this time. The seizure of property form given by the Police state only my phone. None 
of the other missing property was there...My property was last accounted for at (the) airport, 
but missing when the property was returned by police. It is worth noting that I was not given 
my valuables back upon release.
Mr D also told Zurich that he had complained to the Police force concerned and was 
considering taking legal action against it.
Based on the information Mr D gave Zurich on the claim form, I dont think it was unfair for 
Zurich to conclude that his property and money went missing while he was being detained in 
the custody suite, rather than having been stolen when he was travelling. Thats because 
hes specifically mentioned that his property was taken during that time and that he hadnt 
been given back his valuables. This suggests then that Mr D handed over some of the items 
he claimed for and that he thought his property had been lost or stolen while he was in 
Police custody.
Both the baggage and personal money sections of the policy include specific lists of events 
which Zurich doesnt cover. Ive set out the relevant specific exclusions clauses below: 
What is not covered
Any items shipped as freight or items delayed, detained or confiscated by customs or other 
officials.
Personal money which is delayed, detained or confiscated by customs or other officials.
The Police are an official, public force which is responsible for protecting people, 
investigating crime and maintaining law and order. So I think it was fair for Zurich to consider 
that the Police were acting as officials. And as Ive set out, based on the version of events 
Mr D initially gave Zurich, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that Mr Ds claim was 
made on the basis that his baggage items and personal money had been detained or 
confiscated by officials while he was being held in the custody suite. This means I think it 
was reasonable for Zurich to conclude that Mr Ds claim wasnt covered by the terms of the 
policy.
I appreciate that Mr D has now told us that he doesnt know where or when the loss 
happened. This isnt something Zurich has had a chance to look into and its open to Mr D to 
get in touch with Zurich if he feels he now has evidence that the loss or theft of his things 
didnt happen in the way he initially presented to it.
Its clear that Mr D is concerned that his ethnicity may have unlawfully played a part in the 
way Zurich assessed his claim. Its important I explain that it isnt our role to decide whether 
a financial business has acted unlawfully or not. Thats for the courts to decide. My role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In doing that though, I do have to 
take a number of things into account  including relevant law and what we consider to be good industry practice at the time. So although its for the courts to decide if Zurich has 
breached the Equality Act; I must consider the Equality Act 2010 in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable if I think its relevant. 
As Ive explained though, in this case, I think that Zurich declined to pay Mr Ds claim after it 
concluded that the circumstances hed presented to it werent covered by the policy terms. 
So I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably by relying on the policy terms in 
this case. And based on everything Ive seen; I dont think Mr Ds ethnicity played a part in 
Zurichs decision to turn down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman