DRN-1677067
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to lend 
him money. 
What happened
Mr R borrowed £90 from Lending Stream on 10 July 2018. It was repayable over six months 
with a maximum monthly repayment of £39.60.
Mr R says he applied for the loan whilst off work with mental health issues. He says that, as 
he was unable to return to work, he couldn't repay the loan. Mr R adds that if Lending 
Stream had done better checks it would have seen he had numerous defaults on his credit 
file and a significant amount of debt.
Lending Stream says it asked Mr R about his income and expenditure and compared the 
information with national average figures. It said it revised Mr Rs declared expenditure 
upwards but still found the loan to be affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
nothing in the information provided to Lending Stream that indicated the lending was 
irresponsible.
Mr R responded to say, in summary, that his credit report showed he was in financial 
difficulties, that Lending Stream hadn't verified any of his financial information and that his 
mental health issues hadn't been taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure 
Mr R could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr R was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Lending Stream had to do.
Im satisfied that, based on the information provided to Lending Stream by Mr R, the loan 
appeared affordable. The checks showed Mr R had a disposable income of over £300, with 
a maximum monthly repayment of less than £40. Lending Stream is entitled to rely on the 
information provided by its customers, especially in the early stages of the lending 
relationship.
I acknowledge that Mr Rs credit report would have shown a number of defaulted accounts, 
but I cant see that the information provided by him should have prompted Lending Stream to 
have carried out further checks and Ive seen no evidence to show it would have been aware of his ongoing mental health issues. So I cant conclude it was wrong to have approved the 
loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman