DRN-3556753
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with MBNA Limiteds proposed resolution after they wrongly sold her 
debt to a third party and recorded a default on her credit file.   
What happened
Miss W maintained a credit card account with MBNA.
In or around April 2019, MBNA had cause to issue a notice of default (NOD) to Miss W in 
respect of the balance she owed on her credit card account. This led to MBNA selling the 
remaining debt to a third-party debt collector and a default being recorded on Miss Ws credit 
file.
Miss W continued to receive communications from the third party in relation to what she 
owed and continued to make regular repayments totalling around £800.
In March 2022, MBNA wrote to Miss W. They explained theyd reviewed their files and 
noticed that Miss W had, in fact, paid the money due under the NOD. But as she then 
missed her next minimum payment, theyd sold the remaining debt and recorded a default 
on her credit file. MBNA said that although theyd followed their process correctly, they now 
didnt think they shouldve taken the actions they did.
MBNA said theyd bought back Miss Ws remaining debt totalling £1,090.01 from the third 
party and paid this amount off for her. They also confirmed theyd arranged for the default to 
be removed from her credit file. 
Miss W wasnt happy with MBNAs resolution. So, she complained to them. She was 
unhappy the default had been registered in error. She said this had resulted in her being 
declined for finance and meant she was unable to consider a house purchase. She didnt 
think MBNAs resolution reflected the distress and inconvenience caused and thought they 
should also refund the £800 shed paid to the third-party debt collector.
MBNA didnt agree they hadnt done enough. They told Miss W her debt was still payable 
while she was making payments to the third party. So, they wouldnt look to refund the 
payments shed made to them. Unhappy with MBNAs response, Miss W referred her 
complaint to this service.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator thought MBNAs resolution 
was fair and didnt think they needed to do any more. Miss W disagreed with our 
investigators findings and asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Miss 
Ws complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter their procedures or processes or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether MBNA have been fair and reasonable in the 
manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Miss Ws experience with them. When considering her complaint, Ive also considered any 
relevant rules and regulations where they apply.
The facts of Miss Ws complaint are not in dispute. MBNA agree they shouldnt have 
recorded a default on Miss Ws credit file and shouldnt have sold the debt to the third-party 
debt collector. So, I dont propose to explore these aspects any further.
What I have considered is whether the resolution proposed by MBNA is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances here. Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable 
by one party may not be considered so by another. So, Ive carefully considered the impact 
of MBNAs actions on Miss W.
Its clear Miss W has suffered both distress and inconvenience as a result of MBNAs 
actions. And I would expect MBNA to reflect this in their resolution. But Miss W has also 
further described the impact recording the default had on her. While the default may well 
have influenced her ability to secure credit, Ive not seen any clear evidence to support how 
that impacted Miss W financially. And not only do I need to be able to clearly identify 
financial loss, I then need to be able to directly attribute that to MBNAs actions before 
making any award. 
I think its also relevant to say that despite MBNAs actions, Miss W had benefitted from the 
money she owed them. And when that debt was sold, that liability remained. So, Miss W 
remained contractually obliged to repay what she owed, regardless of whether MBNA made 
a mistake or not. During the time the debt was with the third party, Miss W repaid a total of 
£800. This reduced the outstanding debt she owed to £1,090.01. Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest that the amount Miss W owed had increased as a result of MBNAs actions. So, had 
they not recorded the default or sold the debt, that amount would still be owed.
MBNA have removed the default from Miss Ws credit file. This is what I would expect them 
to do here. But theyve also agreed to repay the remaining balance for her. So, in simple 
terms, Miss W has been compensated to the tune of £1,090.01. And I think this amount feels 
fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Miss W doesnt agree. But it isnt the role 
of this service to make awards in order to penalise MBNA for their mistakes. Any award is 
considered based upon the impact MBNAs mistake had upon Miss W. And I think their offer 
does that here.
I want to reassure Miss W that Ive considered her comments and recollections very 
carefully. And while I realise she will be disappointed; I wont be asking MBNA to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman