DRN-3145925
The complaint
Mr G complains that due to a Barclays Bank UK PLC system error he doesnt receive any 
text message alerts on his account. He says the issue has been ongoing for three and a half 
years and that Barclays hasnt done enough to try to resolve this. He has been paid some 
compensation but thinks a much higher amount is needed as well as the issue being 
resolved.
What happened
Mr G says that since 2018, he has experienced a problem with Barclays not sending him text 
alerts on his account. He says that Barclays hasnt done anything to fix the issue and while it 
paid him £150 in October 2020 he thinks this is inadequate as the issue is still ongoing. 
Barclays issued a final response letter dated 8 October 2020. This followed a response in 
2018 when Mr G had previously raised the issue. Barclays noted Mr Gs issues as receiving 
and an error message when selecting "Manage Accounts, Notification Preferences' on your 
online banking. It noted the length of time the issue had gone unresolved and accepted that 
the level of service Mr G had received wasnt acceptable and that it needed to do more to 
resolve the issue. It said the issue was under investigation, but it wasnt sure how long it 
would take to fix but that Mr G would be contacted when a fix had been put in place. 
Because of the distress and inconvenience Mr G had experienced it credited his account 
with £150. 
Our investigator said that Barclays was aware of the issue and was looking into it. He said 
he couldnt give Barclays a deadline to fix the issue. He said that Barclays had paid Mr G 
£50 compensation in 2018 and a further £150 in 2020 and he thought this was reasonable 
noting that Mr G was still able to manage his account through other means even though he 
didnt have the text message service.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He said that Barclays hadnt paid him £50 
compensation in 2018. He said he had been waiting over three years for the issue to be 
resolved and that while the investigator suggested the parties were on the same page this 
wasnt and had never been the case and that Barclays had never provided adequate 
resources to resolve the issue.
In response to Mr Gs comments it was confirmed the £50 from 2018 was offered to Mr G 
but not paid. Our investigator said they could ask for the £50 to be paid but Mr G refused this 
saying he didnt accept £50 compensation offered in 2018 or the £150 paid in 2020 and 
wanted £1,000 given the three and a half years of suffering with this issue, the poor 
customer service and exposure to financial risk due to not receiving the alerts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr G is frustrated and upset by the service he has received from 
Barclays regarding the notification alerts he has tried to set up on his account. Mr G first 
raised the issue in May 2018. He was given advice at that time for a possible solution which 
he tried but didnt work. He then provided all the information requested by Barclays and 
Barclays raised the issue with its technical team, but the issue wasnt resolved. A complaint 
was raised at that time and an offer of £50 compensation made but Mr G didnt accept that. 
Mr G didnt refer the complaint to this service within the required six months so I havent 
considered this further, other than to note how long the issue has been ongoing.
Mr G continued to experience the same issue after the 2018 final response letter was 
issued. In 2019 he raised the issue again and was given the same advice as in 2018 and 
was again told the issue would be raised with the technical team. The issue was ongoing 
through 2019 and into 2020 and Mr G raised a further complaint about the time being taken 
to address the issue. A final response letter was issued in October 2020 in which Barclays 
said the issue was under investigation and a payment of £150 compensation was made. I 
note that Mr G says he didnt accept the £150 as a resolution to his complaint and as the 
issue wasnt resolved I can understand why that was the case. He then referred his 
complaint to this service.
I understand that Mr G wants the issue to be resolved and a much higher amount of 
compensation. I agree that the desired outcome to this complaint is a timely resolution of the 
technical issue which is resulting in Mr G not receiving the text message alerts on his 
account. Barclays has said this is under investigation and while I find it reasonable that a 
resolution is provided I cannot require it to do this by a certain time or tell it how to go about 
this work. Therefore while I agree with Mr G that this issue has been going on for a very long 
time and I understand how frustrating this has been, I also accept that Barclays is working to 
resolve the issue and that when a fix has been identified Mr G will be informed about this.
Our role isnt to punish the bank, but to put customers back in the position they would have 
been had a mistake not happened, and where appropriate to award compensation. In this 
case, I am not aware that a fix has yet been applied and so while I cannot say Mr G has 
been put back in the position he would have been had the issue not arose, Barclays is 
working on the fix. I understand that the issue affects other customers also and while I 
appreciate this has been an inconvenience for Mr G I have nothing to say that Barclays has 
treated him unfairly in this process.
The other issue relates to the amount of compensation. I note Mr Gs comments about the 
poor customer service, and I agree that he has had to wait a very long time with no 
resolution to the issue. And that he has had to keep chasing to try to understand why the 
issue is continuing. I note the point he has made about exposure to financial risk as he 
doesnt receive text alerts about his account, however I accept that Barclays will have fraud 
detection systems in place which will be protecting Mr Gs account and note the text alert is 
an optional service. I also accept that the issue hasnt stopped Mr G using his account or 
had any adverse impact on it. That said, the issue has now been ongoing for over three 
years. 
Having considered the level of inconvenience caused against the time the issue has been 
ongoing I think the £150 paid in October 2020 is reasonable. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr G but in this case I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman