DRN-4045168
The complaint
Mr H complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling of his claim, under his motor 
insurance policy, following an accident he was involved in when driving. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mr Hs car was damaged as a result of an accident. He contacted AXA to 
make a claim under his policy, which it accepted. Since then, he says there has been a lack 
of communication and a general poor standard of customer service from AXA and its agents. 
Mr H says he complained about this. He logged a second complaint due to a lack of 
communication from AXAs repairer. This was in addition to delays in the repairs, poor 
service, incomplete repairs, and additional damage caused by the garage.
Because of the time taken for AXA to respond to his complaints he referred the matter to our 
service. AXA subsequently made Mr H an offer of £500 compensation for the delays hed 
experienced, issues with the repairs and for poor service. It said it was working to finish the 
agreed repairs to Mr Hs car. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He says AXA should pay him a minimum of £2,000 
compensation. He also says it should repair his car using a manufacturer approved repairer. 
Alternatively, he asks that it buys his car from him and provides a hire car for 30 days whilst 
he finds a new one. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and thought AXAs offer was reasonable. He says 
updates werent always provided to Mr H during the claims process, there were problems 
with the repairs and there was an occasion he didnt receive the correct hire car. Our 
investigator felt the standard of service, and the standard of communication, shouldve been 
better. This resulted in distress and inconvenience for Mr H. But he thought £500 fairly 
acknowledged these issues. He also noted that Mr H was provided with a hire vehicle for the 
periods he was without his own car, which kept him mobile. 
Mr H didnt think this outcome was fair. He says £500 isnt an acceptable amount and refers 
to the outcomes he requested previously. He also says that his car still hasnt been fully 
repaired, so our investigators recommendation doesnt resolve any of his complaint. 
Because he disagreed Mr H asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I wont be adding to the payment 
our investigator thought was reasonable, which I understand will come as a disappointment. 
But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Hs policy covers the loss he incurred when his car was damaged 
during his accident. My focus here is on the standard of claim handling and customer service 
Mr H was provided with by AXA and its agents.  
Mr H raised two separate complaints with AXA. It didnt provide him with a response within 
the eight-week period allowed under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP rules. So, 
he referred the matter to our service. AXA did subsequently offer a resolution, as discussed, 
which was communicated through our service. In these circumstances Ill consider the 
complaint issues up to the point AXA made its offer in mid-January 2023. AXA has agreed to 
combining all the complaint issues raised within this one decision.
Mr H had his accident at the beginning of June 2022. He reported this to AXA at the time. I 
can see from the claim records that the damage was assessed, and Mr Hs car was booked 
in to one of AXAs approved repairers. There was an error with the hire car provided under 
Mr Hs policy. This shouldve been an automatic but was processed as a manual 
transmission. A record toward the end of July says Mr Hs car was returned to him. It was 
necessary for it to be booked in at a main dealer to carry out additional repairs. But the car 
was deemed safe to drive at this point. 
Mr H contacted AXA a few days later at the beginning of July 2022. The records say the car 
wasnt driving correctly. It was returned to the garage for rectification work around a week 
later and a further hire car was provided. In mid-August Mr H chased for progress. AXA 
advised a quote had been received from its garage and it would process this shortly. The 
records show Mr H was provided with a manual hire car at this time, and again requested an 
automatic. AXA subsequently arranged this. 
The records refer to an independent inspection in late August 2022. This was received by 
AXA in mid-December. I can see Mr H requested a copy of this report in mid-January 2023. 
The records show Mr H was being asked to pay his policy excess. These requests were 
halted on the basis that there were ongoing rectification issues for the original repairs. The 
last notes provided from January 2022 refer to Mr H asking when the repair work will start.
Ive read the independent engineers report AXA arranged. This found a number of issues 
with the repairs carried out at both of the garages AXA used during Mr Hs claim. The 
engineer recommended remedial repairs to fix a number of issues including: a replacement 
headlamp; headlamp adjustment; polish/repaint wing; refit wing trim; refit loose bumper; refit 
sill moulding; replace missing fixings; polish (goodwill); refit door handle and lock; check left 
hand rear parking sensor; replace steering rack; replace steering column; and replace brake 
reaction bushes. 
From the engineers report its clear there were a number of issues with the repairs AXA 
arranged. We expect an insurer to arrange for repairs to be completed effectively. In this 
case the garages AXA used didnt do this. This resulted in delays to assess the rectification 
work with the involvement of an independent engineer. Its not clear from the records why it 
took several months to arrange the post repair report. But this wouldnt have been necessary 
had AXAs appointed repairer completed the work to an acceptable standard initially. The 
records show that one of the garages also caused further damage to one of Mr Hs wheels. 
The issues with Mr Hs car werent resolved when he brought his complaint to our service. 
But, as discussed, I can only consider the complaint points he raised up to 20 January 2023. 
AXAs offer incorporates the delays and issues up to this date. Im sorry Mr Hs car wasnt 
fully repaired at this point. It says its acting to finish these repairs. But if Mr H remains 
dissatisfied, he can make another complaint about any delays or issues beyond this point.
Having read the records provided the onus appears to have been on Mr H to contact AXA and check for progress on the repairs. I dont think its unreasonable for him to expect AXA 
to ensure he was regularly updated, which it didnt. In addition, there were issues with the 
type of courtesy car Mr H was provided with. I can see from his policy schedule that he has 
AXAs, Courtesy Car Upgrade option. AXAs policy terms describe this option as:
The car provided will be of a similar size and transmission to your car and will have at least 
as many doors and seats as your car, up to a maximum of 7 seats. 
Mr H wasnt always provided with a hire car that met these terms. 
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Mr H. He was inconvenienced when having to 
contact AXA, and its repairers, to obtain updates. This continued for over seven months 
because of the rectification work needed due to the sub-standard repairs. Mr H describes the 
frustration he felt when his car wasnt repaired correctly. I acknowledge this relates to a 
number of different areas of his car. This meant further contact with AXA and further time 
waiting for his car to be repaired correctly. 
Because of the inconvenience and frustration Mr H has been caused I think its fair that AXA 
pays him compensation. Im glad Mr H had use of a hire car whilst his was under repair, 
albeit I acknowledge the issues he described with this service. But in these circumstances, 
based on the impact on Mr H, I think AXAs offer of £500 is fair. I understand he will be 
disappointed. But this is in line with awards our service will look to make in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
pay Mr H £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman