DRN-3382513
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has reported incorrect information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies.
What happened
Mrs M says she set up a Debt Management Plan (DMP) in November 2018 which included 
her Lloyds credit card account. She says she made token payments at that time, but Lloyds 
reported her account as having missed payments to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). 
Mrs M says Lloyds should have reported the account as an arrangement to pay. She would 
like the incorrect information removed from her credit file as well as compensation for what 
took place.
Lloyds says it hasnt made a mistake. It says it didnt receive the full required payments for 
November and December 2018 and correctly reported that information to the CRAs. It says 
Mrs Ms account was defaulted shortly afterwards and says it told her in November 2018 that 
the CRAs would be informed about the arrears.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mrs M hadnt made required payments in November and December 2018 and that 
Lloyds reported accurate information to the CRAs. The investigator didnt think in any event 
there was any real impact on Mrs Ms credit file as a default was registered shortly 
afterwards.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and maintains Lloyds could have recorded an arrangement 
to pay rather than arrears.
Lloyds says it would have done so if a temporary arrangement was put in place where there 
was not a likelihood of a default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate that she would like 
some recognition on her credit file that payments were made at the end of 2018.
I am sure Mrs M appreciates that Lloyds has a duty to accurately report the account position 
of its customers to the CRAs. I am satisfied having looked at Lloyds records that Mrs M 
didnt make required monthly payments on her credit card account at the end of 2018. I 
appreciate Mrs M made token repayments, but I dont think Lloyds made a mistake by 
recording the account as being in arrears at that time. Im satisfied that Lloyds accurately 
reported the account position to the CRAs. I also think it likely that any repayment amount 
would have also been reported as well as the outstanding balance. So, I think any lender 
looking at Mrs Ms credit file would have seen the token repayments being made.
I can see in any event Mrs Ms account defaulted in early 2019. I think the impact of that 
default would have had far more significance on Mrs Ms credit status than how the token 
payments were recorded in November and December 2018.
I appreciate Mrs M says Lloyds could have recorded an arrangement to pay on her credit 
file. But I dont think Lloyds made a mistake by not doing so. I dont think Mrs M had agreed 
for example a short-term plan with Lloyds that would have seen her resume normal 
payments after a period of time. Im satisfied Mrs M entered into a DMP which as Lloyds told 
her in November 2018 would likely result in a default and adverse information reported on 
her credit file which is what took place.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyd didnt make a mistake or report inaccurate information to the 
CRAs. It follows that I cant fairly order Lloyds change the way in which it reported that 
information or pay compensation as Mrs M would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman