DRN-2138254
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
For the year from late March 2019, Mr G had a motor insurance policy under which UKI was 
responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and 
others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their actions.
On 20 January 2020, Mr G and a third party were involved in a road traffic incident. Mr G 
held the third party liable. 
Later, Mr G complained to UKI that it was accepting a 50 / 50 split of liability as between him 
and the third party. And UKI was asking him to pay 50% of his policy excess.
UKI wrote a final response dated 27 April 2020 not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Unhappy 
with that, Mr G brought his complaint to us a couple of days later.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
UKIs actions to settle on a 50/50 basis were unreasonable.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He is looking for a ruling on whether or not the insurance company has represented 
him to the very fullest extent possible whilst taking into account all the detailed 
information he has provided and all the appropriate types of evidence. 
He is aware of one falsehood by the third party.
The third party's verbal admission that she thought he was parking his car amounts 
to tacit admission of responsibility.
He was not at fault for the incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its usual for an insurance company that has paid out on a claim to record a fault claim 
against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full from a third party. If it 
settles liability on a 50/50 basis then it will recover half its outlay.
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr G hadnt taken the optional Motor Legal Protection 
(Section H of the policy).
Like most motor policies, Mr Gs policy with UKI allowed it to decide how to deal with a claim 
involving a third party. The policy term was as follows:
We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your
name
The effect of such a term is that  on a question of liability involving a third party  UKIs view 
will prevail over Mr Gs. 
I will look at whether UKI applied that term fairly. But unlike a court, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt consider evidence from each driver and decide the extent to 
which either of them is responsible for causing damage.
Im satisfied that UKI took into account Mr Gs report that while he was doing a 3- point turn 
in a cul-da -sac, the third party reversed into the nearside of the rear bumper of his car. 
Im satisfied that UKI took into account photographs of the third partys car and Mr Gs car. It 
wouldve seen the location and nature of the damage to each of them.
Im satisfied that UKI took into account Mr Gs report of what the third party had said at the 
scene.
At first UKI put Mr Gs claim to the third partys insurer. 
However, the third party said her car hadnt been moving and Mr G revered into hers.
There was no CCTV footage or bystander witness statements.
After some debate between UKI and the third partys insurer, UKI made a decision. Rather 
than incur the cost and risk of a court case, UKI decided to accept a 50/50 split on a without 
prejudice basis.
Whilst Mr G disagrees that he had any fault, I cant say that UKI applied the policy term 
unfairly or unreasonably. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to change its 
decision or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman