DRN-3748222
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, surrounding her reporting a disputed transaction on her account.
What happened
Miss R contacted Barclays as she noticed a pending transaction on her account which she 
didnt recognise. Barclays arranged for an investigation into the transaction that resulted in 
the transacted amount being reimbursed to Miss Rs account and future similar transactions 
being blocked. Barclays also blocked Miss Rs credit card and ordered a new card for her.
Miss R spoke with Barclays several times, but she wasnt sure what Barclays were doing 
about the disputed transaction, and she was concerned because Barclays sent her a new 
credit card which stopped working soon afterwards. Miss R also wasnt happy with how 
some of Barclays staff had spoken to her about her concerns. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Miss Rs complaint. They accepted that they hadnt handled Miss Rs 
concerns in the manner they should have, and they apologised to Miss R for that and made 
a payment of £100 to her as compensation for the inconvenience shed incurred. Miss R 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response that Barclays had 
issued to Miss Rs complaint, including the apology and the payment of £100, already 
represented a fair and reasonable outcome, so they didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear Miss R was concerned about the unrecognised transaction on her 
account. Its also clear that Barclays staff didnt take the time to ensure that Miss R fully 
understood how her concerns about the unrecognised transaction would be resolved or what 
the short term impact would be on her account, for instance, in regard to the blocking of her 
credit card until a replacement card could be ordered.
This led to Miss R continuing to seek clarification from Barclays, which in turn led to Miss Rs 
replacement credit card being incorrectly blocked by Barclays, which Miss only discovered 
when she attempted to use the card in store to pay for some shopping, only for her payment 
to be declined. Miss R has also reiterated to this service that shes unhappy with how some 
of Barclays staff spoke to her when she discussed the issue with them.
In their response to Miss Rs complaint, Barclays accepted that the standard of service Miss 
R had received from them had been poor, including the amount of time that Miss R had to 
spend speaking with various members of Barclays staff about the matter. 
Barclays also addressed Miss Rs concern about her replacement credit card being blocked 
without her permission. They explained that following Miss R receiving the replacement card 
shed visited a branch and restated her concerns about the disputed transaction. This led to 
the staff member that Miss R spoke with blocking the replacement card and ordering a new 
one. In their correspondence with this service Barclays have confirmed this was an error on 
the part of that staff member, who appears to have not understood that a replacement card 
had already been ordered and so blocked Miss Rs received replacement card by mistake.
In circumstance such as this, where a business has acknowledged it didnt provide the 
service it should have done, it would be expected by this service that the business would 
apologise to the affected customer and provide compensation to that customer for any upset 
or inconvenience incurred. I feel that Barclays have done that here. This is because, as 
explained, Barclays have apologised to Miss R in their response to her complaint, and 
theyve also made a payment of £100 to her by way as compensation for the poor service 
she received from them.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered fair by one person 
not considered such by someone else. And only Miss R will know exactly how upset these 
events made her feel. But the £100 Barclays have already paid here does feel fair to me, 
given the full circumstances of this complaint, and I can confirm its in-line with what I would 
have instructed Barclays to pay, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position Ive taken on board what Miss Rs told this service about how 
upset she was by how some members of Barclays staff spoke to her, as well as the trouble 
she experienced when her replacement credit card was blocked by mistake. But Ive also 
considered that Barclays actions in blocking that card were made with the safety of Miss Rs 
account in mind. And all things considered, I feel that the response that Barclays have 
already issued to Miss Rs complaint here does provide a fair outcome to whats happened. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Miss R was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint  because I feel that Barclays have already provided a fair 
response to this complaint, as explained above. I hope Miss R will understand, given all that 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman