DRN-3475413
The complaint
Miss V complains that Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold a travel insurance policy to 
her. Miss Vs father, Mr V, is assisting her in bringing the complaint. 
Miss V has previously made a separate complaint about the underwriters decision to decline 
her claim against the policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss V planned a trip which had departure and return dates of 
15 September 2019 and 23 September 2019 respectively. 
On 27 August 2019, Mr V bought a single trip travel insurance policy on-line for Miss Vs 
trip. Miss V was taken ill on the outbound flight and taken to hospital at her destination, 
where she stayed for two weeks. Miss V made a claim against the policy for repatriation 
costs. The underwriter declined the claim. It said that Miss V hadnt declared her        
pre-existing medical conditions. Mr V arranged Miss Vs repatriation at his own expense.   
Mr V says that he bought the policy for Miss V when he was printing boarding passes for 
the trip. He says that both he and his wife watched the computer screen during the 
buying process and there was no place to declare any of Miss Vs pre-existing medical 
conditions. Mr V says that they received e-mail confirmation of the insurance but didnt 
receive any subsequent documentation. He says that they didnt deliberately set out to 
withhold information from the insurer. Miss V wants a total or partial refund of the 
repatriation costs.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Rock provided 
sufficient warning to direct Miss V to declare her medical conditions. And he thought it 
likely that Rock sent policy documentation to Miss V. So, the investigator thought that 
Rock had done enough to provide clear information that wasnt misleading. The 
investigator didnt think that Rock had mis-sold the policy to Miss V. 
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
The warnings werent clear.
The three matters listed as conditions in the sales process could easily be 
missed, especially as at the time he bought the policy for Miss V he was printing 
boarding passes, not buying flights. 
The screen shots provided by Rock may be whats shown at the time of purchase 
of flights, not at the time of printing boarding passes, which was when he bought 
the policy. 
They didnt receive any documents in any format confirming insurance cover and 
limitations. 
If they had received documentation they would have noticed any alert to provide 
further information as Miss V has a long standing medical condition and they are 
aware that they need to tell insurers about that. They assumed that theyd get an 
opportunity to tell the insurer about Miss Vs medical information when they 
received the documentation. 
They were busy with complicated arrangements for the trip and other matters 
such that once they had printed the boarding passes, everything else went out of 
their minds, so they didnt notice the absence of any further communication from 
Rock.
They took every precaution and Miss V saw her GP shortly before departure. 
They didnt deliberately attempt to deceive the insurer, so it should settle their 
claim.
The investigator considered what Mr V said but it didnt change his view. Mr V, on      
Miss  Vs behalf, asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr V in particular has strong feelings about this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all 
this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither 
Miss V nor Mr V will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central 
issue in the case, that is, whether Rock provided sufficient information at the point of sale. In 
this decision, Im not looking at the actions of the insurer, which have been dealt with 
separately. 
I think that Rock provided sufficient information to Miss V and Ill explain why.
Rock didnt provide Miss W with any advice about the suitability of the policy for her. 
But it had a duty to provide information thats clear, fair, and not misleading. 
Ive looked carefully at the sales process in this case. I see no reason why the sales 
process would be any different whether its entered into at the time of booking flights 
or printing boarding passes  its the same sales process in either case. 
Rock has provided screen shots from the sales process in 2019, part of which says 
as follows:
Terms and conditions
By selecting Add Insurance you are confirming all those requiring travel insurance 
are:
1. UK residents and be (sic) in the UK at the time of purchase
2. 75 years old or under
3. Aware of the pre-existing medical condition requirements
Read more
I agree I have acknowledged all terms and conditionsI appreciate that Mr V says that the three matters listed as conditions in the sales 
process could easily be missed but I think they are clear and sufficiently prominent, 
particularly as Mr V was invited to Read more 
Rock says that if Mr V had clicked on Read more, hed have seen the following:
By adding insurance you are confirming all those requiring travel insurance 
are:
[]
3. Aware of the pre-existing medical conditions requirements
This policy offers cover for pre-existing medical conditions. If you require cover for 
your medical condition(s), you must declare them, although an increased premium or 
excess may be required to do so (sic). To enable us to consider your medical 
condition please contact ROCK Medical Screening on [] Please be aware that if 
you do not declare your pre-existing conditions you will not be covered for any claim 
relating directly or indirectly to your conditions. Please also note that a medical 
screening endorsement is only valid when paired with a Jet2.com travel 
insurance policy.
We can offer cover for many pre-existing medical conditions subject to screening 
when you get a quote. If were not able to offer cover for your condition, please visit 
[] for a specialist quote. Alternatively, you may be able to find other providers that 
can help [] here.
I think that at the point of sale, Rock provided sufficient information about the 
importance of declaring pre-existing medical conditions and provided information 
about how to do so.  
Rock says that it sent policy documentation to Miss V by e-mail then followed-up with 
another e-mail reminder to contact it if she required cover for pre-existing conditions. 
Mr V says that they didnt receive any documentation. 
Where evidence is contradictory I make my findings on what I think is most likely to 
be the case. I take into account the evidence available to me and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Rock sent Miss V the policy 
documentation and a reminder. Thats because its Rocks usual process to do so 
and Ive seen nothing to indicate why it wouldnt have done so in this case. Its 
possible that the e-mails sent by Rock went to Mr V or Mrs Vs junk e-mail inboxes or 
were simply overlooked whilst they were busy with complicated arrangements for the 
trip and other matters. 
Part of the policy documentation Rock sent was an Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID), which included the following:
What is not insured?
[]
x Pre-existing medical conditions which you have not declared fully to us and 
accepted by us for cover in writing, for yourself []
And the terms and conditions of the policy included the following:
IMPORTANT HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL INSURED PERSONSYou will not be covered under this policy for any claims arising directly or indirectly 
from a pre-existing medical condition unless it has been declared to us and 
accepted by us in writing for cover. Call us on [] to declare your pre-existing 
medical condition and confirm if cover is available.
Im satisfied that after Mr V had bought the policy on Miss Vs behalf, Rock sent 
information about pre-existing medical conditions. 
I accept that neither Miss V nor Mr V had any intention of deliberately misleading the 
insurer but that doesnt alter the outcome here. It remains the case that Rock 
provided sufficient information at the point of sale to enable Miss V to make an 
informed choice about the policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint both Miss V and Mr V but , for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman