DRN-3290798
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the charges shes been asked to pay by Vauxhall Finance plc 
(Vauxhall Finance) since she returned a car she had been leasing through an agreement 
with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs S acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs S responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection report. 
The investigator has set out the standard required under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I 
agree with his assessment, that each area of damage is beyond what would be considered 
fair wear and tear. The doors show damage that is through to the primer; the wheel has a 
gouge and scratching to the spokes and the bumpers finish is misty and shows signs of a 
poor repair, the other dents to the A post and roof are also beyond what the BVRLA 
guidance would suggest was fair wear and tear.
Mrs S has explained that this wasnt a new car when she took receipt of it. Shes suggested 
the damage was probably already present at that time. Ive thought about that, but I think its 
likely Mrs S would have been aware that at the end of the lease shed need to pay to repair 
the damage if the car wasnt returned in an acceptable condition. And I think its likely she 
would therefore have been extra vigilant when inspecting the car before taking receipt of it. If 
damage of the nature shown in the inspectors photographs had been present I think it would 
have been highlighted by Mrs S at inception and Im not therefore persuaded its likely to 
have been there at that point.
Mrs S has provided an invoice for work she had done to the bodywork of the car before she 
returned it. The invoice explains that the work is for Repair / paint dents and polish 
scratches as per customer request on diagram, but Mrs S hasnt provided that diagram so I 
cant be sure the work she did was to rectify the faults that have subsequently been reported 
and I dont think that invoice is evidence that all bodywork imperfections were refurbished. 
Im persuaded, on balance, that they were not.
The BVRLA guidance explains that businesses dont have to complete refurbishments and 
that they can choose to sell cars on without repairing them and take any loss incurred at 
auction as a result of the damage present. So, I dont think Vauxhall Finance have done 
anything wrong if they havent repaired the damage and overall, Im not asking them to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman