DRN-4084420
The complaint
Mr D complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) gave him incorrect 
information about how distribution payments would be dealt with after his stocks and shares 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) had been transferred.
What happened
Mr D transferred his ISA to FASL in 2021 and FASL wrote to Mr D to explain the ceding ISA 
manager would automatically send FASL any income it received after the transfer. Several 
months later, the ceding ISA manager sent cheques to Mr D for the dividend income it 
received after the transfer. Mr D complained to FASL that it had assured him any income for 
the transferred ISA would be paid automatically into his ISA account, but instead it was paid 
directly to him by cheque and fell outside the ISA wrapper. The ceding ISA manager said it 
had paid the income this way as it had had no written instruction from FASL to transfer the 
dividends.
FASL didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and said the standard re-registration process includes 
the understanding that the ceding provider will send any income to the new ISA provider. 
FASL said it followed the process correctly, and as such expected the ceding manager to 
have forwarded the dividend income to FASL.
Mr D brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator acknowledged that FASL initially referred 
Mr D back to the ceding manager, but then agreed to look into the issue itself. As a result, 
FASL told Mr D it had contacted the ceding manager, and nothing could be done. However, 
FASL now accept it didnt contact the ceding manager. The Investigator thought that FASL 
should pay Mr D £200 for the frustration he felt having to deal with both FASL and the ceding 
manager to try and resolve the issue.
FASL says it accepts it provided Mr D with misinformation but feels that the impact on Mr D 
is minimal, and that a payment of £200 is unreasonable and asked that an Ombudsman 
decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that FASL told Mr D that the ceding manager would automatically send it 
any dividend income payments after the ISA transfer completed, and theres no dispute 
about the transfer itself. Mr D says he relied on what FASL had told him and expected the 
dividend income in question to be transferred automatically. So, the crux of this complaint is 
what did FASL do when Mr D received cheques for the dividends from the ceding manager 
and did it act reasonably
There is no regulatory requirement for ISA transfers, but there is guidance published on the 
GOV.UK website. This says any income received by the ceding ISA manager after the date 
of transfer should be sent to the new ISA manager unless either: the old manager has been 
instructed to pay income received to the investor, or the income received is less than the 
minimum the new manager is prepared to accept. FASL has confirmed that it has no 
minimum income its prepared to accept.
The transfer of dividends post transfer is the responsibility of the ceding provider. It seems in 
this case the ceding managers process is to send cheques to Mr D. When Mr D first made 
FASL of this he was directed to contact the ceding manager. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for FASL to do this and it reflects the guidance Ive referred to previously. 
Then, when Mr D met further resistance from the ceding manager, FASL said it would 
contact the ceding provider to try and resolve the issue. FASL then incorrectly told Mr D it 
had contacted the ceding provider and said, Unfortunately, theyve said they require you to 
contact them directly regarding cancelling the cheques and forwarding your money to us.
The information FASL gave Mr D to contact the ceding manager was fundamentally correct - 
its only the ceding provider that can cancel the cheques and send the dividends to FASL. 
However, Im persuaded that if FASL had contacted the ceding manager, its more likely 
than not it would have become clear sooner than it did that the ceding manager needed a 
new transfer request. So, Im persuaded FASLs actions here contributed to Mr Ds 
frustration that he was being passed between FASL and the ceding manager, and that FASL 
could have done more than it actually did to help Mr D.
The investigation completed several months ago and FASL says it hasnt received any 
further instructions from Mr D to apply for the dividend income to be transferred to his new 
ISA. FASL says that if Mr D has returned the cheques to the ceding manager, he will need to 
complete a new Re-Registration/transfer request online through his FASL account. FASL 
says that once this is done it will request the transfer of remaining monies from this account. 
In my opinion this is a pragmatic way to complete the transfer of the dividends if Mr D wants 
and will keep the dividend income within his ISA wrapper. I cant direct FASL to do this 
unless FASL receives an updated instruction from Mr D for this transfer as its not possible 
for FASL to request a transfer without this new request being completed. Mr D may wish to 
contact FASL - if the dividends are still held in an ISA with the ceding manager - and provide 
an authority for FASL to complete the transfer if he still wants them to be transferred.
Putting things right
I understand FASLs argument that the information it provided Mr D was essentially correct, 
but for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im persuaded Mr D believed FASL had contacted 
the ceding manager when it hadnt. I think caused Mr D a higher level of frustration and 
annoyance you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more 
than just minimal. The incorrect information FASL provided meant that the impact lasted 
more than a few days and resulted in Mr D feeling he'd been passed from one ISA provider 
to another. So, Ive decided that FASL should pay Mr D £200 for the distress and frustration 
this caused.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and that Financial Administration Services Limited 
should pay Mr D £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Paul LawtonOmbudsman