DRN-2957606
The complaint
Mr C has complained that esure Insurance Limited gave him incorrect advice when he tried 
to make an amendment to his motor insurance policy. This caused him to cancel his policy 
and pay a higher premium for its replacement. 
What happened
Mr C had a policy for a car which he personally drove but was leased through a company he 
is the managing director of. 
Mr C was about to drive to the airport to go on a business trip. He rang esure to add a friend 
as a named driver on his policy so they could bring the car back from the airport for him. 
During that conversation Mr C confirmed he wasn't the cars registered keeper. esure's call 
handler told him it shouldnt have insured him in those circumstances.
Mr C bought an alternative policy. He said as he was pressed for time he couldn't shop 
around and the new policy cost him around £800. He complained to esure. esure looked into 
Mr Cs concerns. It agreed that its call handler had misadvised him and that it had previously 
agreed to provide cover for the lease car so shouldnt have told him that there was any issue 
with the cover. It said it wouldn't have ever cancelled Mr Cs policy in those circumstances. 
It noted that Mr C had bought a replacement policy. It paid a refund of his esure policy, 
waived fees of around £65 and paid Mr C £100 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience arising from its mis-advice.
Mr C didn't think that was fair and thought esure should cover the additional costs for his 
replacement premium. One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. She didn't 
think esure needed to take any further action. Mr C didn't agree so his complaint's been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
It was clearly anything other than ideal that esures call handler gave Mr C such poor advice 
at a point when he was under considerable time pressure. But I don't think that means esure 
needs to cover any additional costs Mr C incurred from sourcing an alternative policy.
esure had previously told Mr C it was happy to insure him in the full knowledge of the lease 
arrangements for the car. So it certainly wasn't the case that there was an issue with his 
cover when Mr C rang esure to add another named driver to the policy. esure acknowledged 
this in its response to Mr Cs complaint and confirmed that it wouldn't have cancelled the 
policy in the circumstances. 
I can understand that Mr C didn't want to take any chance that he wouldn't have been 
covered and thought the best way to address that, in a short space of time, was to source 
alternative cover. But I think that was his choice. There were other options open to him and 
esure has confirmed that he remained covered at the time. Also I note that the alternative 
cover Mr C chose wasnt a like-for-like replacement for the cover esure provided. So I don't 
think it would be fair to instruct esure to reimburse any additional costs Mr C incurred.
That said, I can understand that esures misadvice was clearly a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr C. But I think the steps esure's already taken, paying him £100 
compensation and waiving fees is sufficient to address that. I understand Mr C doesn't agree 
and believes the compensation should be more. But I'm satisfied that esures redress is in 
line with awards we make in cases of similar seriousness. So I'm not going to instruct it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman