DRN-3878733
The complaint
Mr U complains that Starling Bank Limited added a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr U says that he was acting for a company and sold a marketing service and received 
payment. He doesnt think that the marker was fairly applied.
Starling Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that a payment off £1,725 received into 
Mr Us account on 17 April 2022 had been reported as fraudulent. It had asked Mr U to show 
he was entitled to this money and wasnt satisfied with what hed provided. So, it closed his 
account and added the marker.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the marker removed. She 
said that there was a high bar to add the marker. Mr U had now provided information from 
the company he said he was acting for regarding the contract involved and payment. She 
was unable to comment on why hed not been able to provide this earlier. This showed he 
had discussions with an individual and had been told that the money would be sent by a co-
worker. Although Mr Us account had been used for illegitimate purposes she didnt think 
that he was witting and complicit in what happened.
Starling Bank didnt respond and so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr U was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
As I understand it the contract that was involved here was for marketing services delivered 
over time. And so, I dont know why a third party would arrange for fraudulent money to be 
paid to Mr U in this way. It is unclear how the person Mr U was dealing with and who he 
explains was the fraudster would benefit. Ive noted that Mr U originally provided a copy of a 
related invoice to Starling Bank addressed to another person hed never met and with no 
reference to his company. Hes now provided official invoices from that company which refer 
to the person he was dealing with. It seems based on the narrative on his account statement 
that the money was paid away the next day. 
It is clear from public records that at one time Mr U was a director of the company he was 
acting for and he has provided payslips to show that he remained employed at the relevant 
time. He also has a letter from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) dated 9 September 2022 
supporting his version of events and a copy of a contract signed by the person he was 
dealing with and the CEO. It is unclear why he wouldnt have more of this information to 
provide immediately to Starling Bank in April 2022 and then when he raised the issue about 
the marker in June 2022. Hes shown though he was out of the country for a period in 
between those dates.
There is a high bar for a marker. And Starling Bank has now been sent copies of the 
documents which includes reference to the company wanting to pay the money back and 
has all the contact points. It hasnt commented on our adjudicators view. And I note her 
assessment has been formed having spoken with Mr U about what happened.
I need to balance all these factors and having done so I dont think that the standard of proof 
for a CIFAS marker is met in this case taking into account the evidence that is now available. 
Thats not to say that there arent still grounds for suspicion about what happened given 
fraudulent money passed through Mr Us account. But in my view there is insufficient for a 
finding that Mr U was deliberately complicit rather than unwitting in what happened. In the 
circumstances I think that our adjudicators recommendation to remove the marker to resolve 
this complaint is appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Starling Bank Limited to remove the 
CIFAS marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman