DRN-2777559
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC because they applied a CIFAS marker against 
him in 2016. Barclays have removed the CIFAS marker, apologised and offered £800.00.
What happened
A third-party bank closed Mr Ns bank account when he applied for a personal loan. This 
was because of a CIFAS marker against his Barclays account. He had other bank accounts 
refused because of the fraud reporting. He feels the reporting to CIFAS is totally wrong. Mr N 
says he has never requested a loan or spent a penny belonging to Barclays. They only gave 
him a credit card for UK Management and Business Consultants, which was paid off. 
Mr Ns third-party bank re-opened his account whilst he solved the problem of the fraud 
marker. Mr N can only think that the reason for its application was that he opened a bank 
account for a private business but never started the business as unfortunately he was taken 
ill with prostate cancer. Mr N told us, this has caused him stress and the loss of a good 
status in the business world. Mr N has been affected emotionally and hes unable to 
concentrate on doing any more work.
Barclays removed any detrimental information loaded against Mr N and confirmed there is 
now nothing place against his name that would prevent him from opening an account 
elsewhere. As a way of apologising for the marker being applied and the impact caused, 
Barclays offered £800.
Mr N wasnt happy with this. He wants £25,000 for all the damage done to him but he would 
also accept a proper apology letter and £5,000.
Our investigator arranged for an apology in writing. Mr N rejected this as he wanted the letter 
from a different department at Barclays. He wanted it from the fraud department, and he 
wanted it to specifically mention fraud.
On 13 November 2020 our investigator issued her view on Mr Ns case. In summary, she 
concluded that
The CIFAS marker hasnt impacted Mr N financially. Mr N had many accounts at the 
time, meaning he had access to funds and other banking facilities. You told us it 
affected you more emotionally than financially.
Mr N wasnt aware of the CIFAS marker until the third-party bank declined his 
application, and Barclays has now removed it. Whilst the investigator acknowledged 
it must have been upsetting, she felt Barclays had done enough to put things right.
The investigator felt this was a fair outcome in the circumstances. She explained that if Mr N 
didn't accept what shed said, an ombudsman can look at everything again and make a final 
decision. Mr N told her he didnt want a final decision but continued to ask her to get further 
apology letters from Barclays. She obtained a further three versions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying, we are not here to make a bank do what a customer asks but to 
independently look at all the facts and reach a decision based on what we think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances. 
Whilst unfortunate, businesses do sometimes make mistakes. When a business makes a 
mistake, I would expect it to put things right. Its not in dispute here that the marker was 
applied in error, so Im pleased to see that it has now been removed.
On 22 March 2021 Mr N asked me to look into why Barclays put the marker on  I note in 
our investigators view, she mentioned that the subject access request you got from CIFAS 
showed that Barclays recorded information on CIFAS about Mr N on 25 April 2016, for 
misuse of facility due to retaining wrongful credit. However, Barclays now accepts this was 
done in error and removed the marker. Therefore, there is nothing further to investigate here 
and I wont be looking into this matter any further.
It is not my role to punish a business or make punitive awards but sometimes mistakes by a 
business have a practical or emotional impact. For this reason, I can award fair 
compensation if a consumer has experienced distress or inconvenience or damage to their 
reputation.  
I can see Barclays mistake has had an impact on Mr N. He has told us throughout his 
ongoing correspondence with us, the impact this has had. He is a president and owner of 
many companies. He says his reputation has been damaged for many years. He wrote many 
letters to various departments to find out why his account was closed. I do understand how 
Mr N feels it may have caused him loss of status in the business world and that he wanted to 
feel proud again. I can also see the stress it has caused  especially as he was unfortunately 
taken ill with prostate cancer and he experienced the closure of another bank account and 
other banks refused his applications. Barclays has offered £800. Having taken Mr Ns 
circumstances into account, I do feel its offer is fair and reasonable and I wont be making 
any further award.
Barclays has also apologised to Mr N in several letters. I have looked at all of these and Im 
satisfied its apology is sufficient, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
I appreciate that Mr N is going to be disappointed but, I dont think Barclays needs to do 
anymore than it has already offered to do.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC has already apologised 
and made an offer to pay £800 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr N £800.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Kathryn MilneOmbudsman