DRN-4080927
The complaint
Miss K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) hasnt settled her claim 
for water damage.
What happened
Miss K had buildings and contents insurance with RSA. She made a claim under her policy 
after her home was damaged by water ingress caused by faulty guttering installed by her 
neighbour. RSA accepted the claim.
The details of the claim and matters leading to the complaint are well known to both parties, 
so I wont repeat them here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. I realise she may be 
disappointed by my decision, which is understandable given the inconvenience and distress 
shes evidently experienced. That comes across clearly in the recordings of lengthy phone 
calls. But I must keep a balanced view and separate the obvious distress and inconvenience 
Miss K suffered because of the water damage itself from anything RSA did or didnt do when 
handling her claim.
Theres a lot of evidence relating to Miss Ks complaint. It isnt proportionate to comment on 
everything, and our rules dont require me to. But Ill refer to the evidence where I think it 
helps me explain why Ive reached the decision I have.
The nature of the claim itself isnt in dispute. The overriding issue is that after Miss Ks home 
suffered water damage, she didnt think RSAs settlement offer addressed the full impact of 
her claim. My role, then, is to decide whether RSAs offer and its handling of the claim was 
fair and in line with the policy.
Cash settlement
Miss K said RSAs offer of £6,000 for the repairs and £1,600 to replace her damaged carpets 
wasnt enough. Her own quotes for the work were much more. All figures are rounded for 
simplicity.
To be clear, RSAs final cash settlement offer for the repairs was £7,600 but it seems Miss K 
didnt receive that offer. Ill address the communication method later, but for now Im 
accepting that RSA did increase its settlement offer. 
However, I note RSA continued to ask Miss K if she wished to accept its lower offer. This 
suggests its agents hadnt noted the increased offer. I consider this a shortfall and one 
which, had it been avoided, couldve helped resolve the matter. 
That said, RSAs increased offer was still less than Miss K wanted. Looking at Miss Ks 
quotes and comparing them with RSAs scope of work upon which the offer was based, 
there are clear elements of work which differ. For example, Miss K included repairs to her 
kitchen for which RSA had declined cover under the wear and tear exclusion. As the 
evidence doesnt show that the kitchen was water damaged, Im satisfied that it was fair for 
RSA to exclude costs for that work. This goes some way to explain why the cash offer RSA 
made was less than Miss Ks quote.
The circumstances for the carpet replacement are similar. Miss Ks quote was over £2,000 
whereas RSA offered her £1,600. I note that Miss Ks quote incudes grippers and underlay 
throughout the affected area, but RSAs loss adjuster confirmed that only some of the 
underlay needed replacing and the grippers could still be used. Further, I note that the drying 
company removed the affected carpets and disposed of them, yet Miss Ks carpet quote 
included costs for that. This tells me the quotes werent on a like for like basis.
Where Miss K prefers to have a cash settlement, the policy allows RSA to make a cash offer 
based on the costs it wouldve incurred if it had done the work. While Miss K disputes that 
she wanted a cash offer, the account notes and her own recollection of events confirm that 
she preferred not to use RSAs contractors. I accept that she had valid health concerns 
which contributed to her decision, but I cant hold RSA responsible for her choice. 
Overall, Im satisfied that RSAs offer to complete the work or cash settle for what it wouldve 
cost was in line with the policy and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Storage boxes
Miss K complained about her home being used like a storage warehouse.
The evidence shows that RSA arranged for Miss Ks belongings to be boxed up, and the 
drying company reported that the boxes would be stored in Miss Ks home where possible. 
Miss Ks account of events and the call records show that she thought the drying company 
offered:
to arrange nearby storage;
inappropriate storage, or
a storage facility too far away
The evidence also shows Miss K wanted to keep her belongings at home so she could 
access them easily. 
Therefore, its not at all clear exactly what Miss Ks preference was. She said the drying 
company was supposed to arrange storage nearby, but its invoice for the work done 
recorded that the boxes would be stored at Miss Ks home, although she asked whether it 
could help with the storage facility.
I note that RSA made a payment to Miss K to cover the cost of storage for around two 
months. It hasnt asked her to return that payment, but it has offered to pay more if she can 
demonstrate that she incurred storage costs above that already paid. Miss K confirmed that 
the boxes are still in her home, and shed like RSA to pay her for storing them because of 
the inconvenience the clutter has caused. 
As RSA paid for Miss K to make her own arrangements, which she didnt do, I cant 
reasonably hold it responsible for the prolonged time her home was cluttered by the boxes 
containing her belongings. I dont find that RSA did anything wrong here.Overall claim handling
There are a number of issues that caused Miss K to complain which relate directly back to 
the method of communication RSA used. For example:
Appointing contractors
Missed appointments
Failure to return calls
So, Ive looked at whether RSA did something wrong that mightve caused these elements of 
complaint.
Throughout her claim, Miss K said she didnt have access to emails because her broadband 
connection was lost following the water damage. I note she preferred contact by phone or 
text message.
Ive thought carefully about this issue. Miss Ks account of events and RSAs records show 
that she prefers phone calls. But the notes reflect RSAs attempts to contact Miss K by 
phone have often been unanswered. RSA tried to communicate with Miss K by email, letter, 
phone call and text message. Miss K often said she didnt get the communication. 
When RSA did call successfully, the notes show Miss K wasnt available to discuss the 
claim, and she offered limited hours for return calls. She said she didnt receive the text 
messages trying to arrange a start date for repairs or appointments, although the number to 
which RSA sent the messages was Miss Ks. RSA sent Miss K its final response by post, 
which she didnt receive. It also communicated by email, often to confirm matters already 
discussed over the phone. Miss K complained that she couldnt see her emails because of 
the water damage to her internet connection point. Its worth noting that Miss K sent emails 
to RSA, and the account records show that was sometimes an immediate reply to its email. 
So, the evidence tells me Miss K could see the emails, if not as regularly as she may have 
wanted to.
I accept that its a reasonable request to ask for a specific communication method. But, 
based on the evidence, I think it wouldve been difficult for RSA to communicate with Miss K 
by any one method. It tried to contact her in four different ways, but none were consistently 
effective. So, I cant fairly conclude that RSA was wrong to use email as well as the other 
methods it tried.
  
As Ive decided the evidence confirms RSA attempted to contact Miss K using different 
methods, I think the shortfalls she experienced because of any communication issues were 
unavoidable. That is, if Miss K didnt receive the messages, such as those asking her to 
confirm an appointment, then I cant reasonably say RSA was wrong to allocate the resource 
to another policyholder who could confirm the appointment.
That said, RSA did identify some service shortfalls which it couldve avoided, and for that it 
paid Miss K £500 by way of apology. I think thats fair given that Miss K was also responsible 
for some delays, such as postponing work for a month to accommodate school holidays and 
Christmas.
RSAs final position
In respect of the overall claim, RSA confirmed it has already paid:£2,400 for the storage not yet used
£4,000 for external rendering which wasnt covered under the policy
£6,700 for contents damaged beyond repair
£300 for electricity used while drying the property
£500 compensation for service shortfalls
Its final offer for the remaining parts of the claim is:
For its contractors to complete the repairs, or £7,584 cash settlement which is what it 
wouldve cost RSA to do the work.
Pay a cash settlement of £1,617.13 to replace the flooring.
Pay the cost to clean the property when work is complete.
Pay for Miss Ks broadband at £19 per month while shes been unable to use it.
Consider any further storage costs incurred once those already paid have been used. 
Overall, Im satisfied that RSAs cash settlement offer is fair and reasonable and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. And Im satisfied its compensation payment of £500 is a fair 
amount to acknowledge the avoidable distress and inconvenience its actions caused. I think 
RSAs offers are helpful in trying to bring this matter to a close for Miss K. If she incurs 
additional storage costs, thats a matter Miss K would need to evidence to RSA before it 
makes further payment in line with its offer.
As a final point, Id like to reassure Miss K that although my decision doesnt touch on every 
point shes raised or question shes asked, I have considered everything before reaching my 
decision. I understand that Miss K experienced considerable distress and inconvenience 
throughout this experience which had a detrimental effect on her health and living standards. 
And it cant have been easy dealing with the impact of the water damage during such a 
difficult time, all the while being aware that the damage was caused through no fault of her 
own. But, as I said at the beginning, I cant hold RSA responsible for everything thats 
happened during this time. I can only expect RSA to handle the claim in line with the policy 
and Im satisfied it has done that, with the exception of the service shortfalls noted.
Therefore, I wont be requiring RSA to do any more than it already has. If Miss K wishes to 
accept any part of its final offer, she should let RSA know.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman