DRN-4437071
The complaint
Mr B complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair value for his car 
following its theft.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr B insured his car with Admiral under a motor insurance policy. 
In June 2023, Mr Bs car was stolen. Admiral offered £24,000 to settle the claim, less any 
deductibles such as Mr Bs excess. 
Mr B wasnt happy, so he complained about the valuation. Admiral didnt change its decision 
and said the top book valuation across the two guides it had checked is £24,000.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. He said he wasnt able 
to replace his vehicle like for like with the amount Admiral has offered. And he obtained an 
independent engineers report which valued the car at £29,680 but this didnt change 
Admirals position.
An Investigator at this service looked into matters and, ultimately, issued a view that Admiral 
needed to pay more to Mr B  a further £3,609.50 plus interest and £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. This is because they ran their own valuations using 
the motor trade guides which gave two further valuations. This meant there were two at the 
higher end and two at the lower end. There was a considerable difference between the 
spread of the two sets of valuations and the Investigator found the higher values were more 
likely to be indicative of a fair market value. This is because the independent report (and 
adverts referred to in it) supported the higher end. So, they recommended Admiral pay an 
average of the two reports at the higher end, £27,609.50. 
Mr B accepted the recommendation. Admiral didnt agree with the Investigators method of 
calculating a fair value. However, it did agree to the principle of paying an average of the 
four guides, subject to evidence.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
It is my role is to decide whether Admiral has applied the policy terms and conditions when 
reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think it has. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. This is what Mr Bs policy provides. It 
defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it determined to be £24,000. Admiral referred to two trade guides to obtain a value for 
the car. The guides gave different figures, of £23,000 and £25,000 which isnt unusual. It 
then made an offer to Mr B of the average of those guides.
We use the same trade guides  in addition to two others - to help decide if a settlement 
offer is fair when valuing second-hand vehicles. In the absence of other evidence, we may 
find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value as their valuations are based on 
nationwide research of likely sales figures. 
The two further motor trade guides obtained recently by this service are for cars of the same 
make, model, age and mileage as Mr Bs at the date of loss. These gave valuation figures of 
£27,676 and £27,543. Ive also seen the independent engineers report which valued Mr Bs 
car at £29,680. That report contained adverts to support this valuation. 
In light of this, I dont consider Admiral has demonstrated it has acted fairly in reaching the 
value it has. I say this because Im more persuaded an average of the two higher guides 
(£27,609.50) is a fairer reflection of market value than the offer made by Admiral. I also 
consider this to be more comparable with the independent report and adverts contained 
therein.
In summary, Im not satisfied Admirals offer for the market value of Mr Bs car was fair 
according to the terms and conditions of the policy. It now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay Mr B the following.
1. The difference between what it valued his car at (£24,000) and the market value 
(£27,609.50) which I calculate to be £3,609.50.
2. 8% simple interest payable one month from the date the claim was made up to the 
date of actual payment (making an appropriate reduction for any interim payments 
made, on the date they were made).
3. £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
*If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to do the things set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman