DRN-3446455
The complaint
This complaint is brought by the Mrs M and Miss T, who are the personal representatives of 
the estate of the late Mr R, against Hub Financial Solutions Ltd. The complaint is that an 
equity release mortgage was mis-sold by Hub to Mr R in 2011. To settle the complaint the 
estate would like to be restored to the position it would have been in if the mortgage hadnt 
been taken out, with credit given for the capital sum advanced.
Mrs M and Miss T are represented by solicitors, but for clarity I will refer to Mrs M and Miss T 
throughout. 
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide. In 
addition, the history of the events leading up to the complaint has been detailed in 
correspondence between the parties and our investigator, so there is no need for me to 
repeat all the details here. Our decisions are published and so its important that I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr R, Mrs M or Miss T being identified.
Briefly, what happened is this; after discussions with Hub (then known as Just Retirement 
Solutions), Mr R applied for an equity release mortgage. It was Mr R who had made the 
initial approach to Hub via Age UK, because he wanted to raise funds to carry out home 
improvements, provide an emergency fund, clear a bank loan (thus freeing up additional 
income) and to purchase a vehicle.
Detailed fact-finds were completed on 27 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, following which a 
recommendation for an equity release mortgage was made, with Just Retirement Ltd (a 
related company to Just Retirement Solutions). The mortgage allowed for a maximum 
drawdown of £40,500, but Mr Rs initial release was for £29,300, including an arrangement 
fee of £500. In common with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayments were due; 
instead interest rolled up over the course of the mortgage term. The total debt is repayable 
on the death of the last surviving borrower, or if they need to go into full-time care.
The mortgage completed on 16 August 2011 after Mr R had been given advice by his own 
solicitors to ensure he understood the nature and effect of the mortgage.
I am sorry to note that Mr R passed away in 2020. In January 2021 a complaint was raised 
by Mrs M and Miss T that the mortgage had been mis-sold. Specifically, they said that Mr R 
was vulnerable, and had special needs that meant he wouldnt have been able to 
understand what he was doing. They also said he had significant health issues and they 
questioned why there was no medical examination. 
Mrs M and Miss T also said that Mr T had savings and so didnt need an equity release 
mortgage. They also dispute that Mr T ever discussed his intention to take out the mortgage 
with family members, notwithstanding that this is recorded in the fact-find.
Hub didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
where an investigator looked at what had happened. Having done so, he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mrs M and Miss T didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. Theyve reiterated all the points they previously made about why 
they think the mortgage was mis-sold. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to note that Mr R has passed away and I would like to pass on my 
condolences to his family. I appreciate this is a difficult time, and so what I have to say will, I 
know, be unwelcome news. But after reviewing everything thats happened, Im unable to 
uphold the complaint.
I will start first by explaining the extent of our powers in relation to this matter.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr R was a consumer and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, 
Mrs M and Miss T are bringing the complaint on the estates behalf, and as such are 
authorised by law to do so.
But I must explain that, although Mrs M and Miss T are representing the estate, it is Mr R 
who was Hubs customer. Mrs M and Miss Ts role is to bring the complaint on the estates 
behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant 
to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle them to air their own grievances 
about Hub, because the estate is not its customer; their role is limited to putting forward the 
estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mrs M and Miss T have expressed their own 
opinions about what they perceive to be Hubs failings  and I do not doubt their strength of 
feeling about this. But because they are is not Hubs customer, their concerns about Hub 
dont form part of this complaint.
Mr R hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only after 
he had passed away that a complaint was raised with Hub. So in this final decision I have 
looked at the sale of the plan. Without a specific complaint from Mr R about it, I have 
considered generally whether Hub did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
 
This mortgage was arranged pursuant to the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (MCOB. The mortgage was also covered by the rules of what was 
then known as the Safe Home Income Plan (now the Equity Release Council). The FCA and the Equity Release Council are (and have always been) aware that there is potential years 
down the line for family members to raise a complaint, sometimes in circumstances where 
the borrowers themselves are no longer able  for reasons of illness or infirmity, or because 
they have passed away  of giving their own explanation for why they took out the mortgage. 
This  and the fact that equity release mortgages are sold to elderly customers  is why this 
type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to such a robust and rigorous sales 
process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a financial adviser, as well as from 
an independent solicitor. 
The advice given by Hub was based on the information given to it by Mr R after the advisor 
went through a detailed series of questions. The documentation is contemporaneous, which 
means it was compiled at the time Mr R spoke to Hub in June and July 2011. In the 
circumstances, I am entitled to treat the paperwork as an accurate record of what Mr R told 
Hub in 2011. Hub was entitled to accept in good faith that what it was told was accurate and 
a true representation of Mr Rs wishes and circumstances.
Its important to note that it was Mr R who approached Hub about this mortgage, after hed 
been in contact with Age UK. So Mr R was, before hed even spoken to Hub, interested in 
releasing equity from his property. He gave clear reasons why he wanted to do so, and the 
level of detail given to Hub about his circumstances doesnt persuade me that he lacked 
understanding of his financial situation. 
Ive noted what Mrs M and Miss T have said about Mr Rs finances  that he had savings 
that he could have used. However, Mr R didnt tell Hub about these and so there was no way 
for the adviser to have known that Mr R had failed to disclose relevant information. The 
adviser was entitled to accept at face value that Mr R was being truthful about his financial 
position.
Similarly, in relation to his health, Mr R didnt disclose any health conditions. Because our 
decisions are published, I will not set out the details about Mr Rs health here, but I confirm 
Ive taken careful note of everything Mrs M and Miss T have said. However, there was no 
requirement for any medical examination before Mr R could be allowed to take out the 
mortgage. In any event, I have noted that the information provided about Mr Rs health 
problems dates from 2016 onwards and so is of limited relevance to the arrangement of the 
mortgage in 2011. Im not persuaded Hub should, or could, have been aware of any health 
issues if Mr R didnt raise these.
Mr R told Hub hed discussed his plans with family members. Hub was entitled to accept this 
as being a truthful answer. In my experience of dealing with equity release cases, I have to 
say that it is not uncommon for an elderly person to want to keep their finances private from 
family members. If Mr R decided not to discuss his plans with the family, that was entirely his 
prerogative; Hub was under no obligation to contact Mr Rs family to obtain their consent 
before Mr R went ahead with the mortgage. It would be both a breach of data protection 
legislation, as well as an invasion of Mr Rs privacy, if Hub had done so.
Likewise, Mr R had told Hub how he wanted to spend the money, and if he didnt spend it as 
hed said, that was up to him. Mr R had given valid reasons for wanting to take out the 
mortgage, and there was nothing untoward in his explanation of why he wanted to take out 
the mortgage. Hub wasnt under any duty or obligation to check up on Mr R or police his 
spending to make sure hed used the money as he said he was going to. That would, in my 
opinion, have been grossly intrusive on his right to spend his own money as he wished, as 
well as a breach of privacy.Its also important to emphasise that  before he entered into the mortgage  it was a 
requirement of the lender (a separate part of Just Retirements business) that Mr R had 
independent legal advice from his own solicitors. The solicitors were required to go through 
the mortgage documentation and ensure that Mr R fully understood the nature and effect of 
the transaction he was about to enter into, explaining the features of the mortgage and how 
it worked. If the solicitors had had any concerns about Mr Rs ability to understand what he 
was doing, or if they felt he was impaired or vulnerable, then they were under a duty to 
inform the lender, and the transaction would not have proceeded any further at that point.
Overall, the contemporaneous documentation is persuasive that the recommended 
mortgage was suitable, based on the information Mr R had provided about his financial 
circumstances, wishes and needs. The documentation provided to him  the letter of 
recommendation, the mortgage illustration and the mortgage offer  explained how the 
mortgage worked. 
Ive noted the criticism about the use of standard paragraphs in the letter of advice and 
recommendation. However, there is nothing untoward about Hub using standard wording to 
explain the key features of the product. This ensures that all relevant details are provided to 
customers, avoiding the omission of important information.  Im satisfied that the letter of 
recommendation also gives detailed personalised information about Mr Rs specific situation. 
I completely understand that it was a shock to Mr Rs family to discover, after his death, that 
hed taken out an equity release mortgage. But taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
from the information provided to Hub by Mr R, that the advice and recommendation were 
suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. This means I dont think Hub has done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman