DRN-3960206
The complaint
Mr D complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited wants to unfairly restrict the payment of 
treatment costs under his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D had private medical insurance, underwritten by AXA. Mr D suffered an injury. In early 
2022, he arranged to see a consultant, which was approved by AXA, and the consultant 
informed him that he would need an operation. Mr D said that the consultant told him that, 
due to his age, he would recommend that Mr D have the operation in an NHS facility in case 
of any complications. Mr D contacted AXA to get this approved but AXA said the NHS facility 
wasnt on the approved hospital list and so it would only cover up to 60% of the costs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D asked AXA to reconsider this outcome. AXA agreed to review and 
asked for medical evidence to support the need for treatment at this hospital. The consultant 
provided a letter stating this wasnt a medical necessity - so AXA refused to change its 
stance. Mr D decided not to renew his policy in June 2022 as a result and cancelled his 
direct debit. AXA contacted Mr D by phone when the payment wasnt received. Mr D said he 
simply wasnt renewing the cover and shouldnt have been called.
Mr D made a complaint to AXA and brought the matter to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said the policy terms and conditions were 
clear about the cover being reduced for hospitals not on its hospital list. And she also said 
that it was reasonable for AXA to obtain more information from the consultant in order to 
make a decision on the case. 
And in relation to the call following the non-payment of the premium, as Mr D hadnt notified 
AXA that he wasnt going to renew the policy, our investigator said it was reasonable for 
AXA to call Mr D to ensure that there wasnt a problem with the payment.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator. He said that this was a commercial decision made by 
AXA and didnt consider the actual situation and the risk to him. As no agreement could be 
reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint.
Has AXA considered the treatment costs fairly?
Mr D feels that AXA should pay in full for the treatment he wants to have at an NHS hospital 
as he says this was the recommendation of the consultant. AXA has said that, as the 
hospital isnt on its hospital list, it will only pay 60% of the cost. 
Ive firstly looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what cover is available. I can see 
that in Section one, the policy states the following:
1.1 > Why its important to use hospitals or day-patient units in the hospital list 
If you have treatment at a hospital or day-patient unit thats not in the hospital list, 
we will only pay 60% of the charges from that hospital or day-patient unit as long as 
they charge up to the normal rates published and charged by that hospital or day-
patient unit. You will be responsible for paying the remaining charges.
From looking at this term, I think it is clear that cover is only provided in full for those 
hospitals which are on AXAs hospital list and treatment at hospitals not on the list will only 
be covered for 60% of the cost. 
AXA has confirmed that the hospital Mr D wishes to use for his surgery isnt on the hospital 
list and therefore as detailed above, Im satisfied that it would be fair for AXA to restrict any 
payment to this amount.  
Mr D told AXA that the consultant recommended he have surgery at an NHS hospital due to 
his age and where he would be in an emergency facility should any complications arise. He 
also said he was aware someone else had received treatment at the same hospital and it 
had been covered in full. AXA said that it would look to see if it could make an exception, but 
it would need to have a network exception form completed by the consultant.
Im aware that there was some difficulty with getting medical information from the consultant 
and this also caused frustration for Mr D. However, I dont think it is unreasonable for AXA to 
want to get information to support the need for Mr D to use a hospital not on the list. And 
from reviewing the policy I can see that AXA does explain it may be necessary for it to obtain 
further information from either the GP or specialist.
The consultant provided a letter to AXA. In it he explained that, depending on a medical 
review, there was no reason why Mr Ds surgery couldnt be performed at a private hospital 
on the list, as opposed to an NHS facility. The consultant didnt confirm that there was a 
medical necessity for Mr D to have the treatment at the NHS hospital he wanted. As a result, 
AXA advised it would still only consider 60% of the costs. 
Ive thought about this very carefully, as I appreciate what Mr D has said about the verbal 
recommendation he received and why he would therefore want to have treatment in the NHS 
hospital. But as the consultant hasnt confirmed in his correspondence to AXA that there is a 
medical necessity to use this different facility, Im not persuaded AXA has acted 
unreasonably by not agreeing to pay the full costs. So, I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.Call regarding the unpaid premium
Mr D has also complained about a call he received from AXA. When AXA refused to pay for 
his treatment in full, Mr D says he decided not to renew his medical insurance policy and he 
therefore cancelled the direct debit. When the premium wasnt received, AXA phoned Mr D. 
He is unhappy that AXA called him to query the unpaid premium. 
I understand why Mr D may have felt the call from AXA was unnecessary, as he had decided 
to let the policy lapse. However, it doesnt appear Mr D contacted AXA to let them know he 
wasnt going to renew his policy. Ive looked at the renewal letter and I can see it says there 
is no need to contact AXA if youre happy with everything, and the cover still meets your 
needs. But it also says that the policy holder should make contact if they wish to change 
anything about the policy. So, I think AXA would have expected Mr D to let it know if he 
wanted to cancel, as this would be considered a change.
AXA has also let us know that its system recognises when a premium hasnt been received 
and this prompts an advisor to contact the policyholder. Considering how important this type 
of insurance may be to an individual, and the consequences if the cover was to be cancelled 
in error, I think it is entirely reasonable for AXA to have processes in place to contact a 
policyholder in these circumstances. Im satisfied AXA acted reasonably when calling Mr D 
after the premium payment was missed, especially as it wasnt aware of his intention to no 
longer continue the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman