DRN-2065956
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (CFSL), trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance, withdrew the facility to pay debts with a credit card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion for the following reasons:
CFSL made a business decision, in June 2019, to no longer accept credit card 
payments towards debts. I dont think they had to consider accepting payments 
through this avenue as it wasnt a contractual obligation, but a business decision they 
were entitled to make.
Ive not seen that Mrs N had made any payments to them using her credit card 
before. So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest CFSL should have expected her to 
make payments via credit card, or to have therefore warned her about the decision 
they made to stop taking such payments. 
So, whilst I understand Mrs N has explained she had to take out a further loan and 
incur some interest to eventually pay off her debt with CFSL, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask them to compensate her for that. 
CFSL have offered £25 compensation to Mrs N for not telling her about the change. 
Having considered the circumstance, and in light of my comments above, I think 
thats reasonable.
Theyve offered a further £25 because they made an error when initially explaining 
they would extend the buy now pay later period. This was quickly remedied, and the 
inconvenience was therefore limited. I think, in the circumstances, CFSLs offer of a 
further £25 compensation was reasonable.
CFSL have subsequently offered a further £75 compensation because of service 
issues relating to failed, or late call backs, having considered those circumstances I 
feel that the level of compensation offered was also reasonable. Mrs N may well 
have been confused by the business response as to which day her August 2019 
payment was due. But, I can see no interest was charged and the amount due didnt 
change so the impact on her was limited.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman