DRN-2370238
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have held him liable for transactions on his credit
card that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. Hes also unhappy with the service
he received.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
an overview of some key events here. My H says there were a number of payments on his
Vanquis credit card that he didnt recognise. These totalled around £2,800 and were all
made online. The payments had taken place throughout August and September 2019.
Vanquis investigated but ultimately held Mr H liable for the transactions. They said theyd
sent Mr H text messages to confirm some of the payments and that many others had been
confirmed using a one time passcode that was again sent to his phone. So although Mr H
believes his phone might have been cloned and denied ever receiving or responding to any
messages, they thought it most likely that he authorised the payments in question.
Mr H disagreed and complained. Vanquis responded to the complaint in November 2019
and maintained their position on the payments but acknowledged there had been poor
service. They agreed some confusion had been caused as to whether or not Mr H had to
make payments whilst his fraud claim was investigated. Vanquis said theyd credit his
account with £50 compensation as well as £36 to cover default fees that had been applied.
They acknowledged that Mr H had asked to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act (CCA). But they said this would only apply to a breach of contract or a
misrepresentation. As Mr H said he hadnt made the transactions they didnt think this was
applicable.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should
be upheld. In summary she thought the compensation already offered was fair, and that
Vanquis decision to hold Mr H liable for the transactions was reasonable. Mr H disagrees
and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know
this will be disappointing for Mr H, so Ill explain why.
Generally speaking, unless Mr H authorised the payments, Vanquis cant hold him liable for
them. Where there are conflicting accounts, I have to make my decision on the balance of
probability as to what I think is most likely to have happened. Im satisfied that the payments
were correctly authenticated by Mr Hs card details being entered online. But that isnt, on its
own, enough to conclude that he consented to the payments.
The evidence from Vanquis shows that many of the payments Mr H disputes were further
verified by a text message being sent to confirm authorisation. There were also two
occasions where security texts were sent to Mr Hs number asking him to confirm payments
that had recently taken place. In all instances a positive reply was sent.
I appreciate Mr H says this wasnt him and that he believes his phone could have been
cloned. Ive considered this but I find the technical evidence from Vanquis to be more
persuasive. Mr H hasnt provided any further evidence beyond his testimony to support
issues with his phone. Vanquis had the correct number for Mr H and I think its more likely
than not that Mr H responded to the texts and consented to the payments. There isnt a
plausible explanation as to how anyone else could have obtained both the full card details
needed to make online payments as well as access to his phone at the same time.
Mr H has evidenced that he was in a different part of the UK (by providing a statement
showing debit card spending) at the relevant time. But as all the disputed transactions were
distance contracts conducted online, Mr Hs location doesnt mean he couldnt have
instructed the payments. Overall, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H made the
transactions he disputes and it is therefore fair for Vanquis to hold him liable for them.
Mr H says that he contacted some of the merchants involved who told him that theyd
stopped some orders as the delivery address provided didnt match that associated with his
card. He says this is further evidence that he didnt authorise the payments. Ive thought
about this, but it doesnt change my opinion on whether Mr H authorised the payments. Its
entirely possible that he (or someone with his consent) authorised a payment and instructed
delivery to a different address. If a merchant stops this as it falls outside their policy, that
doesnt change my opinion as to whether or not the transaction was authorised. Im not
making a finding as to whether or not Mr H received any of the goods ordered, my
consideration here is whether or not he authorised the transactions, which for the reasons
Ive explained, Im satisfied he did.
Whilst Mr H says he didnt order any goods from the merchants, he also says that he wanted
Vanquis to try to recover the money from the merchants as he never received any goods or
services. I understand why Mr H may think as he didnt receive any goods or services he
should be entitled to pursue a claim under Section 75 or the applicable chargeback scheme
but as Mr H told Vanquis and maintained that he hadnt made any payments to the
merchants, I dont think Vanquis not taking things further was unfair or unreasonable. And
even though I agree with Vanquis that its more likely than not that Mr H authorised the
transactions in question it doesnt automatically qualify him to make a Section 75 or
chargeback claim.
Vanquis accepted they caused some confusion as to whether or not payments had to be
made whilst the disputed transactions were under investigation. They credited Mr Hs
account with £50 compensation for this and refunded £36 in fees. I think this is fair. I
appreciate this was a troubling time for Mr H, but Im not persuaded the impact of the
confusion caused by Vanquis justifies increasing the compensation already paid.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Sonia Williams
Ombudsman