DRN-3732047
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a package bank account.
What happened
Mr Ts account history is as follows:
opened a fee free classic account 9 May 2005
upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum packaged bank account 8 November 2007
upgraded to a fee-paying Premier packaged bank account 13 September 2012
downgraded to a fee-free Classic account 17 May 2013
Mr T tells us he had no need for the benefits that came with the package bank accounts so 
they were mis-sold to him.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr T disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the package bank accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
Ive looked at all the information available from the time Mr T was sold the package bank 
accounts. I will now look at each sale in turn.
Platinum account sale 8 November 2007
There is limited information available from the time Mr T took this account. At the time the 
account was sold it came with the benefits of worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, 
mobile phone insurance, and sentinel card cover. In addition to this the account also came 
with an interest free overdraft up to £250, preferential interest rates on savings, and higher 
credit interest on current account balances.
Its been agreed that Lloyds recommended the Platinum account to Mr T, so it had to make 
sure it was right for him. Mr T tells us that when he was sold the account, he had no plans to 
travel, was driving his mothers car and had a cheap mobile phone that wasnt worth 
insuring, so the account benefits were not beneficial to him.
But the insurances available under the policy were available to Mr T. The mobile phone 
insurance would have covered his device even if it was at a lower value, and if Mr T chose to 
travel the travel insurance could have proven useful. From looking at Mr Ts account at the 
time I can also see that he used his overdraft on a regular basis, so he benefitted from the 
interest free overdraft that came with the account.
Mr T also used the breakdown cover and registered a mobile device to the mobile phone 
insurance while holding this account.
Package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual so Its not uncommon to find that 
customers are unable to make use of all the benefits that come with them. But I think Mr T 
would have found some of the benefits that came with the Platinum account useful so I  think 
the recommendation to take the account was reasonable, and I dont think Lloyds mis-sold 
Mr T this account.
Premier account upgrade 13 September 2012
It has been agreed that Lloyds recommended his account so again it had to make sure the 
account was suitable for Mr Ts circumstances at the time.
At the time Mr T was sold this account it came with worldwide travel insurance (including 
family and winter sports), enhanced breakdown cover compared to the platinum account, 
mobile phone insurance, sentinel card protection and home emergency cover.
The account also came with an interest free overdraft up to £500 (with preferential rates over 
this amount), and ID aware.
The available evidence shows Lloyds carried out an interview with Mr T at the time he was 
sold the account. As part of the interview process an interview summary document (ISD) 
was produced. I consider this document to be persuasive evidence as it was produced at the 
time of the sale.
The ISD shows that Mr T:
travelled in the UK and Europe (not including winter sports)
travelled regularly by car and would find the enhanced breakdown cover useful
had a mobile phone
would benefit from access to his credit report and early signs of identity theft
would benefit from the interest free overdraft
The Premier account was recommended to Mr T as the benefits that came with the account 
met his needs at the time. Considering the information that was gathered at the time of the 
interview I think the recommendation to take the Premier account was reasonable, so I dont 
think Lloyds mis-sold this account to Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr T the package bank 
accounts, and I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Terry WoodhamOmbudsman