DRN-2884098
The complaint
X, a limited company, complains about the way Charter Court Financial Services Limited 
(trading as Precise Mortgages) dealt with its buy to let mortgage application. The complaint 
has been brought on Xs behalf by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr X. He says as a result of 
Precise declining to lend, X lost out on a property purchase. And it had incurred costs 
including a valuation fee, legal fees and a technical survey fee. Mr X asks that Precise 
refunds the valuation fee.
What happened
X applied to Precise for a buy to let mortgage in November 2019 through a broker. Precise 
had previously offered similar loans to X and another limited company of which hes the sole 
director: two of these loans were offered in October 2019. However, Precise declined this 
application.
Mr X says the reason given by Precise for declining the application  inconsistent 
information in the application  isnt the real reason. He says it declined the application for 
other reasons which it should have known at the outset. Mr X says Precise shouldnt have 
requested a valuation before assessing the application and should refund the fee (about 
£400). 
Our investigator said Precise carried out further checks due to the aggregate lending it had 
offered to Mr X and his companies. It found inconsistencies during these further checks and 
declined the application. The investigator said these were final checks and it wasnt an error 
that they were carried out after the valuation. There was never a guarantee the application 
would be successful, and Mr X was made aware of the valuation fee.
X didnt agree. Mr X said Precise used the aggregate lending as an excuse when it couldnt 
show hed mis-informed it about his employment or residential status. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X applied to Precise for a mortgage in late 2019. There were no concerns initially with the 
application and Precise carried out a valuation, which was also satisfactory. 
Precise then referred the application for further checks. It says this was due to its total 
aggregate lending to Mr X and his companies and these checks are not uncommon in these 
circumstances. 
Precise says as a result of these further checks concerns were raised about inconsistencies 
in Mr Xs application. 
Mr X explained his employment and residential status and history. In summary, while his 
employment used to require him to travel extensively by late 2019 this was no longer the 
case. He provided evidence to Precise that he was resident in the UK when he made the 
application. I think though that Precises concern was whether hed been resident in the UK 
for the previous three years and it asked Xs broker for evidence of this. Precise also 
questioned whether Mr X lived at the address given in the application as the property had 
been let out. His broker said Mr X had let out the property for 12 months from April 2018, but 
hadnt updated his residential address as this was intended to be temporary. 
I appreciate that Mr X feels he provided sufficient evidence that he was resident in the UK. I 
must also take into account that some of the information in the application (such as that hed 
lived at the same address for some years) does seem to have been incorrect. I think Precise 
was entitled to decide whether it was satisfied with the information it received. In the 
circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably find it was unfair to decline Xs application.
I dont think Precise changed the reason it gave for declining to lend to X. It said this was 
because of inconsistencies in the application. The reason this came to light in November 
2019 and not before was due to Precise making additional checks  which were triggered by 
the total amount of borrowing offered to Mr X and his companies.
I can understand that Mr X would have preferred to know Precise wouldnt lend at the outset. 
X would have saved costs, including the valuation fee, and could have applied elsewhere. 
But I dont think its reasonable to say that Precise could have known this. Precise expected 
the information in the application to be correct. It wouldnt have known that additional checks 
would reveal inconsistencies in the information provided. I dont think Precise made an error 
here or treated X unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman