DRN-3483587
The complaint
Mr A complains AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited unfairly declined his motor 
insurance claim.
Mr As been represented for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the actions of the 
representative as being those of Mr A.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr As car was involved in a collision. It, and at least one other vehicle, 
suffered significant damage. Mr As car was being driven by someone Ill refer to as Mr D.  
Mr D has been said to have stolen the car keys from someone Ill refer to as Mr C  and then 
used the car without consent.
Mr A claimed for the damage to his car on his AXA motor insurance policy  but AXA 
declined the claim. Mr As policy insured named drivers, and others, when using the car with 
his permission. AXA said, after interviewing those involved, it was clear, someone Ill refer to 
as Mr B, had loaned the car to a Mr C without obtaining Mr As express permission first. So it 
said the policy didnt provide cover for the loss. 
Mr A complained to AXA. He said he had previously given permission to Mr C, but that 
anyway the car was taken by Mr D without consent. So he felt the claim should be covered 
as a theft. In January 2021 AXA responded. It said the claim had been handled correctly and 
declined fairly. It noted police investigations were continuing. It said once they had 
completed it would be able to review the claim.  
Mr A wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He complains AXA is manipulating the terms of 
the policy to avoid paying out. He feels the claim was unfairly declined. He says AXAs 
introduced a requirement for express permission that isnt found in the policy terms. He also 
complains AXA treated him like a criminal during the claim investigation. To resolve the 
complaint Mr A wants AXA to cover the damage to his car  and pay him compensation for 
distress, inconvenience, suffering and damage to his reputation.  
In April 2021 our investigator considered the complaint. They said the evidence indicated 
Mr A didnt know or have any contact with Mr C. So the investigator felt it hadnt been 
possible for Mr A to have given him permission to drive the car. As a result the investigator 
felt it was fair and reasonable for AXA to refuse the claim. 
In early 2022 Mr D was found by a court to have been driving dangerously for the collision.  
Mr A asked AXA to reconsider the claim, based on this latest information. In response AXA 
said Mr D hadnt been convicted of theft of the car or taking it without his consent. So it still 
refused to cover the damage to Mr As car. Mr A didnt accept that, so with AXAs agreement 
the complaint with us was reopened and passed to me to decide. 
Its worth setting out here that this provisional decision considers AXAs decision not to cover 
the damage to Mr As own car. AXAs in the process of settling third-party claims for damage 
and loss suffered in the collision. It intends to recover its expenditure from Mr A. He hasnt 
asked this service to consider the third-party settlement or recovery as part of this complaint. 
And as far as Im aware AXA hasnt yet started any recovery action. 
As a result this provisional decision doesnt consider those aspects. Neither does it consider 
Mr As view that he was provided with a misleading policy. The appropriate respondent to 
that complaint would be the intermediary that sold the cover. 
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require 
AXA to settle Mr As claim. As the reasons given form part of this final decision Ive copied 
them in below. I also invited Mr A and AXA to provide any further information they would 
like me to consider before I issued my final decision.
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
require AXA to settle Mr As claim. 
As this is an informal service, I havent addressed here every comment or piece of 
evidence provided. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues and 
information. But I would like to reassure Mr A and AXA that I have considered 
everything provided. 
Mr As policy says it covers loss or physical damage to an insured vehicle
Insured vehicle is defined by the policy as any vehicle, or private vehicle, 
including a courtesy vehicle, when used by you or a named insured person with the 
owners permission 
Vehicle is defined by the policy as a vehicle listed in the schedule for which a 
certificate has been issued Mr As damaged car is listed in the schedule. So it 
meets the definition of vehicle. 
However, for the cover to apply the vehicle needs to be an insured vehicle as set 
out above. The policy says its one when used by you or a named insured person. 
You is defined by the policy as the person named in the policy schedule. Thats Mr 
A. Its accepted the car wasnt being used by him at or around the time off loss.  
 Named insured person is defined by the policy as any Insured person whose 
name is stated on the certificate.
And Insured person is then set out by the policy as any person permitted by you 
to drive, is legally entitled to drive and is entitled to drive in accordance with your 
policy.
So to get to the heart of the matter - for Mr As car to be covered for loss or physical 
damage from the incident, Im satisfied the policy requires it to have been used by 
someone with Mr As permission.
As part of its claim investigation AXA interviewed Mr A, Mr B and Mr C. Ive been 
provided with witness statements from the interviews. It seems Mr B had a general 
permission from Mr A to use the car. Mr B was in possession of it. He passed it on to 
Mr C to use. It was then said to have been taken from Mr C, without consent, by Mr 
D. So it seems to me if the car was stolen or taken without consent by Mr D, then 
that happened whilst it was being used by Mr C. Mr A is quoted as saying he didnt know Mr B had loaned the car to Mr C until 
sometime after the collision. Mr A also said Mr B had allowed Mr C to use the car on 
the basis he was covered by his own insurance policy. In a call to AXA Mr A is 
reported as saying he doesnt have any details for Mr C  he only knows that he is a 
friend of Mr B.      
Mr B said Mr A wasnt aware Mr C was borrowing the car. He also said he told Mr C 
he had to use his own insurance as he didnt have specific permission from Mr A to 
drive it.  
Mr As said he had previously given permission to Mr C to use the car. However, 
based on everything Ive seen Im not persuaded Mr C had Mr As permission 
(express or otherwise) to use the car. It seems he didnt know Mr C. Neither did he 
seem to be aware he was going to be using the car on the relevant occasion. Mr C 
may have had Mr Bs permission (and Mr B may have had Mr As)  but the policy 
doesnt provide cover in those circumstances. 
So considering the circumstances and as it seems Mr C didnt have Mr As 
permission to be using the car when it was taken by Mr D, I cant say AXAs decision 
to refuse the claim for its damage is unfair or unreasonable.
AXA doesnt accept there was a theft. Even if I accepted there was, I still wouldnt 
require AXA to settle the claim. Thats because Im not persuaded the car was being 
used by Mr C with Mr As permission when it was allegedly stolen by Mr D. And in 
the event, there wasnt a theft, its accepted Mr D didnt have Mr As permission to be 
using the car. 
Mr As complained about his treatment by AXA when investigating the claim. The 
circumstances of the claim are unusual and complex. So I think it was reasonable of 
AXA to make in-depth enquiries. I havent seen enough to persuade me, that whilst 
doing so, it treated Mr A unreasonably or unfairly.  
As I dont think AXAs decision to refuse the claim was unfair, or that its investigation 
was inappropriate, I dont intend to require it to pay Mr A any compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr A nor AXA responded to my provisional decision. So I dont see any
reason to come to an outcome different to that set out in my provisional decision. That 
means, for the reasons given above, AXAs decision to refuse Mr As claim was fair and 
reasonable. That means Im not requiring it to pay the claim, any compensation or to do 
anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited to 
settle Mr As claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 Daniel Martin
Ombudsman