DRN-4493257
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the cover British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) offered 
under a home emergency policy after boiler parts became obsolete.
Mr B is represented by Mrs D, who I will also refer to in my decision.
What happened
Mr B had a HomeCare policy with British Gas, which renewed each year. In 2023, Mrs D 
complained to British Gas because she said Mr B had recently been advised that his boiler 
was obsolete and it was no longer possible to source some parts. Mrs D said British Gas 
should either source alternative parts or replace the boiler for free.
When British Gas replied, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had first told Mr B in 2018 
that the boiler was no longer made and that it might be difficult to obtain parts. It said it could 
quote for a new boiler. It also explained the types of factors it took into account when it 
calculated a renewal premium.
So, Mrs D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
British Gas had told Mr B about the availability of parts on several occasions. It also 
continued to be able to obtain 100 parts. The policy also didnt include providing a 
replacement boiler under circumstances like these. She said British Gas had acted fairly.
As Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
The boiler was fitted about 20 years ago. Mrs D said British Gas didnt tell Mr B there were 
issues with sourcing parts until 2023. Ive seen the renewal notice sent to Mr B in 2018. This 
said:
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a while ago. 
Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler, some other parts are becoming 
difficult to source
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well do our best to 
keep it running for as long as possible
As well as the 2018 renewal, British Gas also provided this information in later renewal 
documents. Mrs D has confirmed that Mr B received the renewal notices. During annual 
service visits, engineers also suggested to Mr B that he might want to replace the boiler.
Mrs D also said British Gas had made the boiler and key parts obsolete. Looking at what 
British Gas told Mr B, it was that the boiler manufacturer, which wasnt British Gas, stopped 
making the boiler but still made parts for it. British Gas provided the information about the 
boiler and parts to Mr B, along with explaining that it might not be possible to fix the boiler if it 
broke down. So, I think British Gas made Mr B aware of the situation. It was then up to Mr B 
to decide whether to keep renewing the policy and if he wanted to continue with his current 
boiler.
Mrs D has also said British Gas should replace the boiler under the policy as Mr B had been 
paying for full cover. Looking at the policy, it explained the circumstances in which a boiler 
would be replaced. These were if the boiler was less than seven years old, less than 10 
years old if British Gas had installed and provided continuous cover for the boiler or if the 
boiler had caught fire or exploded. None of these applied to Mr Bs boiler. 
Mrs D has also said British Gas should have reduced the premiums because it couldnt 
provide all the parts. She said Mr B was also being charged considerably more than she was 
paying British Gas for her own policy. When British Gas replied to the complaint, it said: 
With the comparison of costs of the agreement with the Homecare policy you have in place 
at your address I have advised both agreements are different and because you have a 5 
year warranty in place. [O]ver the 5 year term you will be paying a reduced rate for 
Homecare as the boiler is under warranty therefore the price will increase once the term 
comes to an end and in the same breath each policy cost will differ as we do take into 
account breakdown history, make, model and age, location, radiators covered etc." (as 
original)
So, British Gas explained why Mr Bs premium was different to Mrs Ds. It also described the 
types of factors it took into account when calculating a premium. This was much broader 
than the availability of parts. The policy terms also explained that:
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back dated to 
when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement  whichevers the 
most recent
So, this explained what would happen about premiums if the boiler couldnt be fixed. There 
were also 100 parts that British Gas was still able to source. Im aware Mrs D has said some 
of the parts that were no longer available were key parts of the boiler. But British Gas told Mr 
B on multiple occasions there were issues with sourcing parts and also suggested he might 
want to replace the boiler. I think that was reasonable.
Having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require British Gas to 
do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman