DRN-3878635
The complaint
Miss T complains about the investment performance of the pension plan she holds with 
Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLAL). 
What happened
Miss T had a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) with SLAL which was invested in the Standard 
Life Managed Pension Fund and in two With-Profits funds. In 2020, Miss T decided to take 
25% of her fund as TFC. As this couldnt be done through her PPP, she had to set up a new 
plan. She chose to move her funds into an Active Money Personal Pension (AMPP) with 
SLAL. Miss T said she was told she couldnt use the same funds shed invested in before for 
the AMPP.
Miss T had to decide where she wanted to invest the remaining funds after her TFC had 
been paid.
SLAL said that it presented Miss T with 4 distinct options in September 2020. It said these 
were presented as an online journey. And that Miss T had chosen option 2, which was to 
invest in the Annuity Targeting Pension Fund.  SLAL also said that Miss T received 
confirmation after completing her online journey which set out the details of her instruction. 
Plan documents were then issued on 21 September 2020. These showed that the 
investment chosen was the Standard Life Annuity Targeting Pension Fund.
Miss Ts pension fund has reduced in value since she chose to invest her remaining funds in 
the AMPP. Her annual pension statements for 2021 and 2022 showed large reductions to 
the value due to investment performance.
Miss T was shocked by the poor investment performance, so she complained to SLAL in 
August 2022. She felt her fund was: struggling compared to other steady funds. She also 
said that the description of her chosen fund on SLALs website had been too complex for her 
to understand. But that she now understood that she was effectively locked into buying an 
annuity. She asked SLAL why it hadnt explained in more detail about pension freedoms, as 
she felt buying an annuity was outdated and not beneficial to her. Miss T also said that she 
now knew SLAL offered a wide choice of lifestyle profiling funds. She felt SLAL had ignored 
lifestyling. 
Miss T wrote to SLAL on 21 September 2022 to instruct it to switch all of her funds into the 
Standard Life Managed Fund. 
SLAL issued its final response to Miss T in October 2022. It didnt think itd done anything 
wrong. It said that Miss Ts AMPP provided the opportunity to invest in any one or more of a 
range of over 300 investment funds, which covered different investment sectors and had 
different objectives and risk profiles. It said Miss T had chosen the fund shed wanted. And 
that she could choose to switch all or part of her investment to other funds during the lifetime 
of the plan. 
SLAL acknowledged that the price of the units in the Standard Life Annuity Targeting 
Pension Fund was currently down 32% over the calendar year at that point. But said that the 
fund had been designed for investors approaching retirement and intending to purchase a 
lifetime annuity. It said the fund had the specific aim of helping to counterbalance any ups 
and downs in annuity rates and therefore protecting the expected level of retirement income. 
It also said that most major stock markets had seen falls, and that high inflation and low 
growth had led to most bond and share values going down at the same time. 
SLAL also said that it couldnt make investment choices for Miss T, or monitor her 
investment performance. It said that it could provide information so that Miss T could make 
informed decisions, but it couldnt guide her as to what those decisions might be. And that its 
role was to administer her plan. 
Miss T was unhappy with this response, so she brought her complaint to this service. She 
said her pension had originally been sold by a SLAL salesman and that shed never dealt 
with anyone else about it. So shed assumed that she was still receiving advice from SLAL 
when she took her TFC. She said shed chosen one of the funds SLAL had suggested as 
she had no idea what to choose without its help. But she now felt that shed been somehow 
misled into something she had no idea about. And that she was now tied to buying an 
annuity that she didnt think would be the best option for her. Miss T wanted SLAL to refund 
the lost money and to allow her to take money out as and when she wanted it.
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She said that as SLAL 
wasnt an adviser, it hadnt offered Miss T any investment advice, as it wasnt allowed. She 
felt that the information SLAL had provided Miss T with before she made her investment 
choice was clear and therefore Miss T wouldve known she was going to purchase an 
annuity. Our investigator also felt that she couldnt reasonably hold SLAL responsible for 
poor investment performance given Miss T had chosen the fund herself.
Miss T didnt agree with our investigator. With the help of a friend whod been a financial 
adviser for many years, she made the following points:
- SLAL had initially sold her the pension through its adviser, so it was reasonable for 
her to assume that it was still offering her advice. She didnt think SLAL had told her 
it was no longer her adviser. In any event, as Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs) 
could be faced with sanctions if they sold products without giving advice, Miss T 
questioned why insurers should be treated any differently. 
- She didnt feel shed really chosen the AMPP fund herself. She felt she had little 
choice as she didnt have detailed knowledge. 
- Although SLAL had said it couldnt make investment choices for Miss T, or monitor 
her investment performance, it wasnt reasonable to expect her to be an investment 
expert. 
- Most people would be attracted to the guaranteed income an annuity would bring 
them, until they understood that it could be an expensive option. The level of pension 
a customer would get would also be unknown until the annuity actually started. So 
option 2 was misleading.
- She felt the Annuity Targeting Pension Fund, and the implications of choosing it, 
were difficult to understand. And that as SLAL had a wide range of sensible funds, 
she questioned why it had created such a complex high-risk fund, which would then 
lead the customer into the gamble of buying an annuity. 
- It should be possible to hold SLAL responsible for poor performance in this case as the Annuity Targeting Pension Fund was too complex for the average policyholder. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ts points. But still felt that she couldnt fairly hold SLAL 
responsible for the performance of Miss Ts choice of fund.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss T. 
Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
Miss Ts main complaint is about the performance of the Annuity Targeting Pension Fund. 
Different funds will have different objectives, features and structures. Its for investors, with 
the help of their advisers if required, to decide which type of funds that they want to invest in. 
SLAL said it hadnt given Miss T any advice on what fund to choose when moving to the new 
plan. And that it wasnt authorised to do that. It said it provides information so that a 
customer can make their own choice. 
I acknowledge that Miss T felt that it was reasonable to assume that SLAL was still offering 
her advice, as it had sold her the pension in the first place. But I dont agree. I say this 
because the Making the most of your pension booklet which provided Miss T with 
information about the AMPP said the following under Your choices explained:
We recommend that you do consider appropriate guidance or financial advice before making 
any decisions. There may be additional costs when seeking advice. You can also get free 
impartial government backed guidance over the phone or face to face with Pension Wise. 
And the terms and conditions of the AMPP state under section 1, Your terms:
We have tried to set out these terms and all other related documents as clearly as possible. 
But if there is anything you are unsure of, please contact your financial adviser or the AMPP 
Customer Centre. Please note that our AMPP Customer Centre staff cannot provide you 
with advice.
I consider that the terms are clear and not misleading that SLAL cant provide advice. And 
that if advice is needed, a customer needs to get that through their own financial adviser or 
through another service such as Pension Wise, as SLAL couldnt provide advice.
I acknowledge that Miss T also felt that as IFAs could be faced with sanctions if they sold 
products without giving advice, this should also be the case for insurers. But I dont agree. I 
say this because the regulator doesnt expect or allow plan providers and administrators like 
SLAL to give advice. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to sanction a business like SLAL for 
not doing something it isnt allowed to do.
Miss T also said she didnt feel shed really chosen the AMPP fund herself. While I 
acknowledge this is how Miss T felt, I cant agree it was the case. I say this because SLAL 
provided information so that Miss T could choose her investment fund. And told her that it 
could provide further information and help if needed. It didnt provide any advice on that choice, as it wasnt allowed to. 
Based on the information SLAL provided, Miss T chose option 2. This was described as 
follows:
Option 2 - Do you plan to set up a guaranteed income for life (an annuity) within 5 years?  
If you do, then think about investment options designed with this goal in mind. The 
guaranteed income you get when you buy an annuity depends on the annuity rates at that 
time. These rates can go up and down, sometimes by quite a lot.  
You might want to consider the Annuity Targeting Pension Fund. Its a readymade option 
intended for people buying an annuity within the next 5 years. Its designed to rise and fall in 
line with the cost of buying an annuity.
I consider that this description is clear. Therefore Im satisfied that when Miss T chose this 
option, she knew she intended to buy an annuity. And in the event that Miss T wasnt clear 
about what this option might mean for her, she couldve asked SLAL for further information 
about it before making her decision.  Overall, I cant reasonably conclude that SLAL chose 
Miss Ts investment funds for her. 
Miss T said it wasnt reasonable to expect her to be an investment expert. She also felt that 
most people would be attracted to the guaranteed income of an annuity until they 
understood this could be expensive. She also felt that as the level of pension shed get from 
the Annuity Targeting Pension Fund would be unknown until the annuity actually started, 
option 2 was misleading. Miss T also felt that the fund shed chosen was difficult to 
understand. So questioned why SLAL had offered it when it had a wide range of sensible 
funds already available. 
While I acknowledge Miss Ts points on her choice of fund, I dont consider that SLAL did 
anything wrong here. From what Ive seen, the fund description wasnt misleading. And, in 
my opinion, the concept of choosing option 2 if the intention was to set up an annuity within 
five years was a clear one. And if Miss T had been unclear about any aspect of her options 
she couldve requested further information. 
I agree with Miss T that SLAL offered a wide range of other funds. The online journey Miss T 
went through included the following information: 
To summarise, you have a range of readymade investment options depending on how you 
want to take your money out. Or, if youre confident selecting your own investments, choose 
from over 300 funds from the full fund range and you can tailor make your own portfolio.
I can see that Miss Ts expectation was that SLAL would provide her with any investment 
advice that she needed. But, as Ive said earlier, Im satisfied that SLAL had made it clear 
that it couldnt and didnt offer financial advice. It was up to Miss T whether she felt she knew 
enough to be able to choose her own investments, or if she wanted to engage an IFA, or talk 
to someone like Pension Wise, or ask SLAL for more information. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to hold SLAL responsible because Miss T chose not to take any of these 
steps.
Miss T also said that it should be possible to hold SLAL responsible for poor performance in 
this case given how complex the Annuity Targeting Pension Fund was. But I dont agree. I 
say this because Miss T didnt have to choose this fund if shed found it too complex. She 
couldve chosen differently, got IFA advice, or just asked for more information so she 
understood it better.The fund Miss T was invested in didnt require or allow SLAL to monitor performance on her 
behalf. Ive seen no evidence of a failure in the standard of reasonable care provided. And 
there were no guarantees when investing in the fund. The fund doesnt appear to have 
performed disproportionally badly compared to other similar type funds. Im sorry that Miss 
Ts pension has gone down in value, and that this has caused her stress. But as she chose 
the fund herself, I cant fairly hold SLAL responsible. So I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman