DRN-3702899
The complaint
Mr R, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided him with 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
Mr R was advanced seven home collected loans between November 2015 and May 2017. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 14/11/2015 14/11/2015 20 £7.50
2 £100.00 18/11/2015 03/03/2016 20 £7.50
3 £300.00 09/02/2016 21/10/2016 33 £15.00
4 £300.00 03/03/2016 11/01/2017 33 £15.00
5 £300.00 21/10/2016 18/05/2017 33 £15.00
6 £300.00 11/01/2017 sold 33 £15.00
7 £300.00 18/05/2017 sold 33 £15.00
Morses has also confirmed that loan one in the table was repaid within the cancellation 
period and therefore Mr R wasnt charged any interest. 
Mr R had some problems repaying loans 6 and 7. Morses told us that it had sold the 
balances of these loans to a third-party collection agency in March 2021. 
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 2 and 3 were 
running at the same time Mr Rs weekly commitment to Morses was £22.50. 
Following Mr Rs complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold the complaint. Mr Rs representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about loans 1  5 
because he said based on what Morses was aware of it made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans. The adjudicator then went on to say that Morses had, following our 
involvement agreed to uphold the complaint about loans 6 and 7. 
Mr R explained that the offer received from Morses would be to repay the outstanding 
balance due on loans 6 and 7 and then it would pay Mr R the remaining balance of £16.16. 
This offer was put to Mr Rs representative who didnt accept it and its comments are below: 
We spoke to our client, and he has basically said he will not accept the decision he 
has received and wants it referred as soon as possible.
No further information has been received and because no agreement has been reached, the 
case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
Morses has already accepted that loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have been advanced and it has 
outlined the compensation that it will pay. As Morses has already accepted something went 
wrong with these loans I no longer think they are in dispute, so Ive not made a finding about 
them.But given that I also dont think these loans ought to have been provided, Morses offer to 
settle these loans is therefore fair and reasonable. So, I have included them in the putting 
things right section at the end of the decision. 
Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses made reasonable decisions to lend in 
relation to loans 1  5. 
Loans 1  5
For all of these loans, it is likely Morses asked Mr R to declare his weekly income and his 
expenditure.
However, due to the passage of time, Morses hasnt been able to provide and locate any 
evidence of the information Mr R declared for loans 1  4. Equally, I havent seen anything 
from Mr R to suggest what his income and expenditure may have been at the time. 
But Ive also not seen anything to suggest that Mr Rs financial position was materially 
different when loan 5 was granted and I do have the information declared for loan 5, which I 
go into detail about below. Had Mr R declared similar figures for the first four loans, I think it 
is likely Morses wouldve thought the lending was affordable. 
Morses has been able to provide information relating to loan 5. For this loan Mr R declared 
he had a weekly income of £317. Mr R declared his weekly expenditure to be £77. This left 
Mr R £238 per week in disposable income to be able to afford the largest contractual 
repayments of £30 per week.
Based on the information Mr R declared, Morses couldve been confident he was in a 
position to afford the contractual repayments he was due to make for these loans. Given this 
was still quite early on the lending relationship which means, in my view, Morses could rely 
on the information Mr R had provided. 
I think the checks that Morses did were proportionate and it didnt need to do any further 
checks before agreeing to these loans. 
Ive also thought about the fact that some of these loans overlapped but even taking into 
account the higher weekly repayments as a result of this, the loans still looked affordable. 
So, this doesnt change my mind about the checks that Morses carried out. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Rs complaint about these loans. 
Putting things right
Morses has already accepted that loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have been provided to Mr R. But 
for completeness, Ive outlined below what it has agreed to do. 
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if Morses is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debts back then 
Morses should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr R having 
made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on any outstanding loans. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr R. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr R. 
E. The overall pattern of Mr Rs borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Rs credit file. Morses do not have to remove loans 6 and 7 from Mr Rs credit file 
until they have been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about loans 1  5. 
But Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr R as it has already agreed to do and as 
directed above for loans 6 and 7.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman