DRN-3359479
The complaint
Mr O complains that Zurich Assurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on his and his late 
wifes joint life assurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O applied for a level term life assurance policy with Zurich on 18 June 2015. 
Zurich wrote to the couple on 21 June 2015 asking them to check the application details. 
The policy was offered on standard terms with a sum assured of £200,000 and was due to 
run for 16 years. Cover began on 1 July 2015. 
In February 2021 Mrs O sadly passed away. Mr O claimed on the policy. 
Zurich declined the claim. It said Mrs O hadnt provided correct information on the 
application form, specifically about her alcohol consumption. Zurich said if it had known this 
information at the point of application, cover wouldve been declined. It considered this to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline the claim, treat the policy as if it 
was never in place and return the premiums paid. 
Mr O complained to Zurich and asked it to reconsider its decision. He said the family had no 
knowledge of Mrs Os alcohol consumption at the time of the application. 
Zurich didnt uphold Mr Os complaint and maintained its decision to decline the claim and 
cancel the policy. It did however pay Mr O £100 for delays in the claims process. 
Mr O brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and our Investigator thought it 
shouldnt be upheld. He said Zurich had asked clear questions on the application that Mrs O 
had answered incorrectly. He thought Zurich acted fairly by declining the claim and returning 
the premiums. 
Mr O doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
said the application was made in good faith and there was no deliberate misrepresentation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr O and his family for the tragic loss 
of his wife. Its clear that the family has been through an incredibly traumatic time. And I can 
see that pursuing this claim has been particularly difficult and upsetting for them all. 
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this wont be the answer Mr O hoped for. Id like to reassure him that I 
havent taken this decision lightly. I realise that the outcome of this complaint could have 
potentially life-changing consequences. But I cannot consider a complaint on compassionate 
grounds. I must consider whether Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in light of all the 
circumstances and evidence. While I dont want to add to Mr Os distress, I cant say Zurich 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Did Mrs O take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich thinks Mrs O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she completed the application form in June 2015. 
Sadly, Mrs O isnt around to ask why she answered the questions on the application as she 
did. So, Ive thought very carefully about what she was asked, and what Mr O has said about 
why Mrs O gave the answers she did. Ive also taken account of the supporting medical 
evidence. 
Ive looked at the questions Mrs O was asked when she applied for the policy. Her 
responses are in bold:
Do you drink alcohol? Yes
On average, how many units do you drink each week? (1 unit = a half pint normal strength 
beer, lager or cider or 125ml (small) glass of wine or 25ml(pub) measure of spirits. A half pint 
of premium strength beer (4.2% ABV and above), lager or cider should be recorded as 2 
units)
Beer, lager or cider 0
Wine 6
Other (e.g. alcopops, sherry) 0
Have you ever been or advised to be treated or counselled for alcohol consumption or 
abuse, or joined an organisation for alcohol dependence or abuse? No
If 'Yes', when and why were you given this advice and, on average, how many units were 
you drinking each week?
In the last five years, unless already disclosed, have you suffered from or been advised
to have any test or investigation for:  stomach, bowel or other disorders of the digestive
system including ulcers, ulcerative colitis, Crohns disease or irritable bowel syndrome? NoThe questions are, I think, clear and unambiguous. They seek to find out information about 
Mrs Os lifestyle, specifically whether shed been advised about or received treatment in 
relation to her alcohol consumption. And to understand her medical history in the five years 
prior to the application. This is standard practice for all insurers when assessing the risk of 
offering cover. 
I can see from Mrs Os medical records that theres several references to her alcohol 
consumption between 2012 and 2016  in particular that she was drinking between one and 
five bottles of wine a day. It also documents that she had been drinking excessively for 
10 years and was on alcohol dependency medication. I can also see she was advised about 
her drinking during this time, and in January 2014 was referred to an alcohol counselling 
service. 
The medical notes also show that Mrs O was diagnosed with a duodenal ulcer in 
December 2014. Shed also previously been treated for a duodenal ulcer in 2013.
It is clear from Mrs Os medical records that she was advised to cut down on her drinking 
and referred to a counsellor. And in the five years before the application she was twice 
diagnosed with a duodenal ulcer  a disorder of the digestive system. And so, I think its 
reasonable Zurich has said Mrs O shouldve answered yes to the above questions. 
Mr O has said the application was answered in good faith and that the family had no idea 
about Mrs Os alcohol consumption at that time. I dont doubt what Mr O says, but in line with 
CIDRA, I must look at the evidence to decide if Mrs O took reasonable care in completing 
the application. 
The medical evidence shows Mrs Os excessive alcohol consumption was longstanding, 
both prior and post the June 2015 application. And her most recent duodenal ulcer diagnosis 
was less than a year before she applied. So, I think this information was recent enough and 
relevant enough to remember when Mrs O completed the application. 
I appreciate Mr Os point that he was unaware of Mrs Os alcohol consumption, but that 
doesnt negate the need for the information to be accurate from both applicants.  This was a 
joint life policy, and both lives assured are required to separately answer questions on the 
application concerning their own medical history and lifestyle. One party isnt expected to 
answer the questions for both applicants, and both applicants are required to sign the 
application confirming the information theyve provided is correct.
Therefore, as Zurich has already explained to Mr O, if information is not correctly disclosed, 
the responsibility for this lies with the person who failed to disclose it, not with the other life 
assured. And so, Mr Os lack of awareness of his wifes alcohol consumption does not 
change the fact she didnt answer the questions correctly.  
Mr and Mrs O were also reminded of the importance of providing accurate information, and 
the possible implications of not doing so, when they were asked to check the details theyd 
provided.  
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs O took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Did the misrepresentation make a difference?
I can see from Zurichs underwriting criteria from the time of the application that if 
Mrs O had disclosed that shed received advice about her drinking, more information wouldve been requested from her GP. This wouldve alerted Zurich to Mrs Os alcohol 
consumption and the treatments and advice shed had in relation to that. Based on this 
information, Zurichs underwriting confirms the application wouldve been declined. This 
means Im satisfied Mrs Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.  
Zurich has classified Mrs Os misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless, but in terms of the 
action its taken, its treated it no worse than if it were careless. Both classifications however 
allow an insurer to avoid the policy when, had the correct information been disclosed in the 
application, cover wouldnt have been offered. The difference between the classifications 
though is that premiums should be refunded for careless misrepresentation whereas they 
can be retained by the insurer if classified as deliberate or reckless. Given Zurich has 
refunded the premiums, Im satisfied theyve provided Mr O with the most favourable remedy 
under CIDRA. I think this is fair. 
Taking everything into account, I think Zurichs decision to decline Mr Os claim and cancel 
the policy was fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman