DRN-4071551
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) provided to
him under his roadside assistance policy after his car broke down whilst he was abroad.
Any references to Admiral include its agents.
What happened
Mr Hs car broke down whilst he was driving in Europe. He called the number for European
breakdowns. After waiting over an hour he called the Admirals UK number instead. From
here he was connected to the appropriate agent and a tow truck was arranged. He was told
his car would be dropped at the relevant garage in two days. This didnt happen.
Mr H says he waited on hold again for over an hour trying to find out what was happening
with his car. When he got through, he was told the car wouldnt be dropped at the garage. Mr
H says this wasnt what had been agreed and he was given inaccurate information as to why
this decision had been made. Mr H says that the car was eventually delivered to the garage,
a day late. But unfortunately, the repairs couldnt be completed for several weeks.
After another long wait on the phone, Mr H says he got through to Admirals European agent
and was told his car would be repatriated home. Mr H then arranged travel home, which
Admiral has paid for. On contacting Admiral again, he was told the estimated repatriation
date wasnt known, but it was expected to be in two to three weeks. He called again after
two weeks and waited an hour to speak to an agent. At this time Mr H says he was told the
repatriation was now expected to take up to four weeks.
A week later Mr H says he called again. He waited a long time before getting through and
was told to expect his car within six to eight weeks. In the end it took five weeks for Admiral
to repatriate Mr Hs car. He says this was very stressful as the car is very important to him,
and he was concerned it may be damaged. He was also without his car for a long period,
which caused inconvenience.
In its complaint response Admiral says it expected its supplier to repatriate Mr Hs car within
two weeks. But due to very high demand, this took three weeks longer than expected.
Because of the delay it offered £150 compensation. It says its European breakdown
department was experiencing unprecedented demand, which meant Mr H had to wait to get
through. It apologised and offered an additional £40 for the inconvenience.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold his complaint. He acknowledged the delay in repatriating Mr Hs car and with
the communication issues. But he thought the compensation offered was fair.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read Mr Hs policy terms to see what cover it provides. Under the section on European
cover the terms say:
If, in the opinion of the breakdown mechanic, they are unable to repair the vehicle at the
roadside we will assist in the following way:
- arrange and pay for you, the vehicle and your passengers to be recovered to the
nearest garage which is able to undertake the repair
- if the vehicle cannot be repaired within 48 hours or by your intended departure date,
whichever is the latter, we will arrange for you, the vehicle and your passengers to be
transported either to your home address or if you prefer and it is closer; your original
destination.
And:
In the event we need to transport your vehicle back to the territorial limits (UK), due
to the fact this process will not always be immediate, we will also contribute up to £150
towards the reasonable cost of alternative transport or a hire car in the territorial limits
(UK) whilst your vehicle is being transported back to the territorial limits (UK).
There is no dispute that Mr Hs car couldnt be repaired at the European garage for some
time. The decision to repatriate the car back to Mr Hs local garage in the UK seems
reasonable. There is no complaint from Mr H about the service he received in relation to the
arrangements for him returning home. Im glad that this aspect of the breakdown was
handled well.
That said, Mr H waited five weeks for his car to be returned to the UK. This is a long time. I
cant see a timeframe specified in the policy terms to determine how long this is expected to
take. But Admiral has said it expects its agents to arrange this within two weeks. I
acknowledge its comments that demand for repatriation services was high at the time. But
this wasnt Mr Hs fault. He paid for a service, and Id expect Admiral to ensure his car was
repatriated in a timely manner. I accept this wouldnt be immediate given that it involved
transporting the car from a different country. In these circumstances I think two weeks
sounds reasonable. But Admiral took around two and half times longer than this in Mr Hs
case.
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr H. He was without his car for a long period. He
says he was able to borrow cars from family members when they werent being used. But
this still meant periods when he didnt have a car, and this was very inconvenient for both
him and his family. Mr Hs car is a sports model and is very important to him. He says he
was worried that the oil leak that was found would cause issues with the paintwork,
especially given the long delay in it being repatriated. I think its clear that the delay caused
Mr H distress.
In these circumstances I think its fair that Admiral compensates Mr H for the inconvenience
and distress it caused, due to the delay in returning his car to the UK.Ive also thought about the impact on Mr H due to the standard of service he received when
calling Admirals European contact centre. Experiencing a mechanical breakdown in a
foreign country must have been stressful. Its clear Mr H spent a long time waiting on hold
trying to get through on the phone. This was repeated on each occasion he made contact.
He also had to call a UK number to get the help he needed. I think it was appropriate for
Admiral to apologise for the standard of service it provided, which mustve added to the
stress Mr H experienced.
Having considered all of this I dont think the compensation offered by Admiral is fair. For the
reasons Ive set out regarding the impact this had on Mr H, I think this should be increased
to £350 in total.
I acknowledge the hire car costs Mr H has highlighted. However, Im only able to consider
actual losses. Mr H was able to borrow a car for some of the time he was without his, due to
Admirals delays. This mitigated some of the impact. I think the compensation I have
recommended is appropriate to acknowledge the impact this had on him.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments that Admirals processes need reviewing. However, this 
isnt something I can comment upon here. My role is to consider Mr Hs complaint and the 
impact this had on him. Were not the industry regulator. That role is carried out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. So, I cant consider this point further.
I said I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint and that Admiral should pay him £350 
compensation in total. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr H responded to say he accepted my decision. He says he had hoped for more 
compensation but was willing to accept this. He also says he was glad itd been recognised 
that the service provided by Admiral wasnt okay. 
Admiral didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H accepted my provisional decision and Admiral hasnt made any further submissions 
or provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Mr H compensation totalling £350.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman