DRN-2248131
Complaint
Mr K has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) irresponsibly provided him with 
an unaffordable guarantor loan. He had existing debt problems and his debts were stacking 
up.  
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Mr K with a guarantor loan in February 2018. The loan was for 
£5,000.00, secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, had an APR of 39.9% 
and due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £174.50. The total amount to be repaid was 
£10,470.00, which included interest of £5,470.00. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint. He told TFS Loans that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr K with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and 
such checks would have shown Mr K wasnt in a position to sustainably make the 
repayments. So he thought TFS Loans shouldnt have provided Mr K with this loan and 
upheld the complaint. 
TFS Loans disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ks complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that relevant to my determination of Mr Ks complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr K would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr K wouldve been able to do 
so?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time TFS Loans lent to Mr K required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. TFS Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment 
in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr K. In 
practice this meant that TFS Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr K. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for TFS Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of 
Mr K, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.Were TFS Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS Loans has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr K. 
During this assessment, Mr K confirmed that he had a monthly income of £5,000.00 a 
month. But having reviewed Mr Ks payslips TFS Loans says it verified this electronically and 
that it also carried out credit check on Mr K. The credit check showed that Mr K had a 
significant amount of existing debt  although this was up to date at the time. However, Mr K 
had a mortgage which had previously been in arrears but was settled at the time of this 
application.
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check TFS Loans carried out and the content of its discussions with Mr K 
indicated that Mr K had a significant amount of existing debt. In these circumstances, I think 
that TFS Loans ought to have taken steps to verify Mr Ks monthly expenditure. In my view, 
the significant amount of existing debt showing on Mr Ks credit file, his want or need to 
borrow on such disadvantageous terms, as well as the previous mortgage difficulties didnt 
tally with the disposable income information arrived at. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
I accept that TFS Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the 
existence of Mr Ks guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would 
be made. But I dont think that these factors meant that Mr K would be able to sustainably 
make the payments given the level of his existing indebtedness.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customer has a significant amount of existing 
debt, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer period of time and there is the 
potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make payments, I think its far more 
likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a greater 
degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what TFS Loans had 
seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, TFS Loans needed to get a better understanding of Mr Ks financial position in 
order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he 
was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr K about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that TFS 
Loans needed to verify what Mr K said about his expenditure, like it did for his income. It 
could have done this by asking for information such as bank statements or copies of bills. 
And when it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr K 
did have enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 As theres no evidence that TFS Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr K to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations 
made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing Mr K with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Mr K would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Mr K wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr K has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr K has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks TFS Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from TFS Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ks financial circumstances were more likely than not 
to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, TFS Loans was required to establish whether Mr K could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr K has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided with shows that that Mr K was even more heavily 
indebted than the credit search carried out showed. From what I can see he was heavily 
overdrawn to the extent that his income each month meant he never saw a credit balance on 
his account. And he was borrowing from a number of lenders in order to try and meet his 
existing commitments. So I think it unlikely that he was in a position to make his payments 
without borrowing further.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr K would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted TFS Loans to the fact that Mr K would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude TFS Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in some 
other way.  So I find that TFS Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in some other way.  
Did Mr K lose out as a result of TFS Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with his 
guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Ks indebtedness. This loan 
wasnt cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and he ended up paying 
interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been given in the first place. 
So I find that Mr K lost out because TFS Loans unfairly provided him with this loan.
  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr K
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans should do to put things right in this case. Having 
done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ks 
complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The
payments Mr K has made should be deducted from the £5,000.00 he was
originally lent. TFS Loans should treat any payments made if and when the
£5,000.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr K;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date
they were made by Mr K to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
pay compensation in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman