DRN-3161537
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that delays by Halifax Share Dealing Limited meant that she missed 
out on receiving a dividend. 
Mrs P is represented by Mr P, but for simplicity I will just refer to the representations as 
having been made by Mrs P.
What happened
The facts are not in dispute. In summary On 28 May 2020, Mrs P transferred £20,000 into 
her online share dealing account, instead of a Stocks and Shares ISA account in error. Mrs 
P placed an online instruction for the withdrawal of these funds on the same day. But Halifax 
put in a request to recall the payment because Mrs P had requested the funds to go to Mr 
Ps card instead of her own, and so the details didnt match.
On 1 June 2020 Mrs P confirmed the transaction and updated her bank details on the
Account. However Halifax was unable to cancel the recall at this point. Mrs P received
£19,994 back on 13 July 2020. The delays meant Mrs P was unable to purchase the ISA 
when she originally intended and so she felt she missed out on receiving a dividend of 
£376.63. 
Our investigator didnt think that Halifax was responsible for the delay, but she did think that 
Halifax could have explained the recall process more clearly and for this she felt that 
compensation of £125 was due.
Halifax agreed to pay £125 in compensation but didnt agree that there had been any 
investment loss. It said that it had reviewed the share price on the earliest date that Mrs P 
could have invested in her ISA compared with the actual investment date just under three 
weeks later. It said that she had traded at a better price so there had been no investment 
loss.
 
Mrs P was unhappy with the investigators view  she felt that the offer was deplorable and 
said that it didnt cover the investment loss which she maintained she had suffered 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether Halifax has done something wrong, and if so 
whether this has resulted in a loss for Mrs P.
Mrs P realised on the same day that she had made an error and transferred the payment to 
the wrong account. But Halifax was unable to verify the account details for Mrs Ps fund 
withdrawal as Mrs P had used Mr Ps card. The terms and conditions of her account say that 
bank details must be in the name of the account holder. This meant that the payment was 
picked up for additional security checks. In turn a restriction was placed on her account and 
a recall of the payment was requested. Halifax has explained that this can take around ten 
days, but that it has no control over the timescale. Im satisfied that this was a reasonable 
action for Halifax to take as it had legitimate concerns and a duty to protect Mrs Ps money. I 
do understand that this would have been frustrating for Mrs P  but I dont find that Halifax 
was wrong to take the action it did. It follows that I dont find that Halifax is responsible for 
any financial loss Mrs P believes she has been caused.
Nevertheless having carefully considered the information provided to Mrs P following the 
recall I do find clearer information could have been provided. The recall was taking time and 
Mrs P was very anxious as to where her money was, as evidenced during the calls. Halifax 
was not responsible for the time taken to recall the money, but Im not persuaded it kept Mrs 
P abreast of the situation to the extent it could have and I note Mrs P, or her representative, 
had to chase to find out what was happening. Mrs P explained that she needed to write 
things down and that the situation was worrying her to death. 
Halifax did give correct information about the average time it would take but did not advise 
that there was a possibility that the recall wouldnt immediately be successful. In fact the 
recall attempt had failed  this again wasnt the fault of Halifax but did mean, as far as Mrs P 
was concerned, that there was an unexplained delay. Halifax then sent her a trace form to 
complete when the funds had already credited her account. In the circumstances Im 
persuaded that this could have been handled with greater customer focus. Im satisfied that 
Mrs P suffered some distress and inconvenience for which I find compensation is merited. I 
find that £125 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally I note that the payment returned was less that the initial transfer. I understand 
this was because Halifax deducted an outstanding ISA administration fee for April 2019 to 
March 2020. Although this doesnt seem to be in dispute, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont 
find that Halifax acted in error in deducting the administration fee.  
My final decision
For the reason given above I uphold this complaint in part. I require Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited to pay Mrs P £125. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman