DRN-4422357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a claim they made on their Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that RSA have declined to reimburse their costs in attending 
Court.
All references to RSA in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their RSA legal expenses insurance policy for cover to help 
defend a claim against someone who had provided them with childcare services. 
RSA accepted the claim. Mr and Mrs S asked if they could instruct their own Solicitor, but 
RSA instructed their panel firm to act for them instead.
Mr and Mrs S say the panel firm provided them with a poor standard of work. They say they 
made considerable amendments to the Defence that was drafted on their behalf, which they 
were unhappy with, so they asked RSA to fund a junior Barristers fees to deal with the claim 
instead. Mr and Mrs S say DAS refused this request on the basis that the costs would 
exceed the amount they were prepared to pay in respect of this claim.
Mr and Mrs S say they later instructed their own Barrister to review the Defence and the 
merits of their claim. They say he advised that they had reasonable prospects of defending 
the claim against them but recommended the Defence be amended because a point of law 
had been missed by the panel firm. As a result, the panel firm made an application to Court 
to amend the Defence, for which a hearing was listed.
By November 2022 the panel firm stopped acting for Mr and Mrs S under their RSA policy 
because RSA said no further cover was available. Following this, Mr and Mrs S continued to 
defend the claim as litigants in person. They represented themselves at Tribunal at, at least 
three separate hearings. At the time their complaint was brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Mr and Mrs S were due to attend a costs hearing the following month 
with a view to concluding the claim.
This particular complaint is about Mr and Mrs S claim for their costs incurred in attending the 
hearings following RSAs decision to bring cover to an end. RSA say the policy terms dont 
permit this and cover was no longer in place. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S referred their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs S complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs S dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. The Jury Service and Court Attendance section states:
We will cover the Costs and Expenses for the following:
Your absence from work
 To attend any court or tribunal at the request of the Appointed Representative
Appointed Representative is defined as the law firm, accountant or other suitably qualified 
person we will appoint to act for you.
In this case RSA didnt agree to reimburse Mr and Mrs S costs at the request of the 
Appointed Representative, as defined. So, I cant interpret the terms as allowing their costs 
to be covered. The panel firm had stopped acting for Mr and Mrs S by the time these 
hearings came around and cover had come to an end because RSA had decided the claim 
was disproportionate to defend. And although I appreciate why Mr and Mrs S felt they had to 
continue to defend the claim themselves, I cant say that RSA were obliged to cover their 
costs in doing so.
Mr and Mrs S feel that because the application to amend their Defence was made during the 
panel firms involvement and this was a hearing they proceeded to attend themselves after 
they stopped acting, the panel firm should have asked RSA to cover Mr and Mrs S costs in 
attending this hearing at least. 
As I understand it, Mr and Mrs S were advised to settle the claim on the basis that it wasnt 
proportionate to pursue. But they declined to do so. Whilst the option they chose might have 
resulted in a better outcome for them, I cant say that RSA were obliged to continue to afford 
funding to them after they made their decision to bring funding to an end. I say so because 
its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses insurance policies that any intended claim is 
proportionate to pursue. Mr and Mrs S policy is no exception. We dont think this is unfair. 
Litigation can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised the costs are likely to outweigh the monetary benefit. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either. So, despite the outcome, I 
dont think RSA were wrong to bring cover to an end when they did. It follows that there was 
no indemnity available under the policy when Mr and Mrs S incurred the costs theyre 
claiming for and as such RSA dont need to reimburse them for these.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman