DRN-2309626
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way in which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
administered their life and critical illness policy.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs G were sold the policy by a financial advisor when taking out a 
mortgage. Aviva set the policy up and started to take the monthly premium payments.
In 2011 Mr and Mrs G contacted Aviva to cancel the policy as they had repaid their 
mortgage sometime earlier. 
In 2013 Mr and Mrs G complained to Aviva saying the policy shouldve been cancelled when 
their mortgage was repaid. Aviva said the policy wasnt tied to a specific mortgage company 
and they would only cancel the policy when asked to do so by the policy holder. Which is 
what they did when requested.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs G complained to Aviva again saying the policy documents were 
confusing and misleading as they thought it was Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Aviva 
explained this was a decreasing term life and critical illness policy, and not PPI. 
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. They said that because Aviva didnt sell the 
policy, they werent responsible for any advice given at the time of sale. They also thought 
the policy schedule was clear about how the product worked. Mr and Mrs G disagreed so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues here: that the policy continued after the mortgage had been 
repaid, and that Mr and Mrs G feel the policy documents are misleading and unclear. 
I think its important to say that Aviva didnt sell the policy. What they did was set the policy 
up on the instruction of Mr and Mrs Gs financial advisor. It was the role of their financial 
advisor to explain how the product works, and if offering advice, find the most suitable 
product for the needs of Mr and Mrs G. If from policy documents they thought it wasnt what 
had been discussed, then thats a matter to take up with the financial advisor. I can only look 
at how Aviva administered the policy.
Mr and Mrs G contacted Aviva in 2011 to say their mortgage had been repaid and asked to 
cancel the policy. Aviva acted as requested and the policy was cancelled. Mr and Mrs G say 
their mortgage had been repaid sometime before 2011 and are unhappy that Aviva 
continued to take payments after that time. 
I can see why they are unhappy about this as they say they were paying for a policy they no 
longer wanted. However Aviva had no way of knowing that the mortgage had been repaid. 
The policy wasnt linked to a lender, or a particular account, so the only way of Aviva 
knowing when the mortgage was repaid was if Mr and Mrs G told them. If they think their 
financial advisor told them something different about how the policy worked then they can 
contact them for clarification. 
Looking at what happened Im satisfied Aviva acted correctly when continuing to take the 
premiums as they were unaware that Mr and Mrs G had repaid their mortgage and no longer 
wanted the policy. 
Mr and Mrs G feel the policy documentation is unclear and misleading as they thought it was 
PPI. They also feel it is unclear because the policy schedule says Mortgage Life Insurance 
when in fact it wasnt linked to the mortgage. 
The policy schedule does say Mortgage Life Insurance. Aviva say they no longer use these 
words as some policyholders, such as Mr and Mrs G, thought the policy was linked to their 
mortgage. However I dont think this means Aviva did anything wrong by using those words. 
The policy is a type of life insurance and it was originally taken out to cover a mortgage. So 
the description of Mortgage Life Insurance isnt incorrect. If Mr and Mrs G didnt understand 
the policy when they first received the schedule they wouldve contacted Aviva for 
clarification. Similarly, if the policy schedule wasnt what they were expecting they couldve 
contacted their financial advisor who sold them the product. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs G might have thought the policy was linked to their mortgage, and they 
say their interpretation of Mortgage Life Insurance made them think this, Ive seen no 
evidence that this the case.
Mr and Mrs G say they thought the policy was PPI, however looking at the schedule there 
isnt any mention of PPI. The first page of the schedule says: 
This is a life insurance policy, which means if either of the lives insured dies before 
14/11/2014, well pay the value of the policy at the date of death, as detailed in the policy 
booklet.   
In the section of the schedule titled Valuable benefits included with this policy are the three 
headings; Terminal Illness Benefit, Critical Illness cover and Premium Protection. 
Underneath each heading is a short explanation about how each part of the policy works. 
Ive seen nothing on the policy schedule to suggest this was a PPI policy.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied with how Aviva administered the policy. I 
think the schedule is clear about how the policy works, and that no errors were made in how 
the premiums were collected. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman