DRN-3401009
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Kitchen Plus Ltd told her that a finance agreement would be interest-
free, but that was not the case.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs B agreed to buy replacement windows and a door from Kitchen Plus. 
Mrs B signed a works schedule on 19 November 2019. That indicated that the total price to 
supply and fit the windows and door would be £7,396 and that Mrs B would pay with a 
finance plan. She says that Kitchens Plus told her it could arrange finance and that the 
finance would be interest-free or close to interest-free.
The finance was provided by way of a 15-year fixed term loan agreement with a finance 
provider, H, arranged through Kitchens Plus. A loan agreement was prepared, naming 
Kitchens Plus as the supplier and credit intermediary.
The loan agreement included the following details:
The total price was £7,396.
The total charge for credit was £6491, comprising interest. 
Interest would be charged at 5.8% a year, equivalent to 9.9% APR. 
Monthly payments would be £77.15.
The loan agreement was signed electronically on 19 November 2019. 
Mrs B says that she contacted Kitchen Plus when she received her first statement, because 
she was surprised at how much she would have to pay. She asked for a copy of the loan 
agreement, which was provided to her. She then complained to H, which referred her back 
to Kitchens Plus. She was not happy with its response and so referred the matter to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but was not persuaded that Mrs B 
had been told the interest rate would be at or near zero. Mrs B asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs complaint is, in summary, that she was misled about the interest rate she would 
have to pay. She says she was told it would be much less than was in fact the case. 
As I have indicated, the loan agreement stated what the interest rate would be, as well as 
the total interest payable over the life of the loan. It was signed electronically by Mrs B. 
Generally, a person is bound by their signature on a legal document, since a signature is 
evidence of an intention to enter into a legally binding contract. 
Mrs B says that she did not see the loan agreement until she requested a copy of it in early 
2021. She must however have received at least an electronic copy of it in order to sign it in 
November 2019. And an electronic signature is not simply a typed name  it would usually 
require additional authentication. I am satisfied therefore that Mrs B did see the loan terms 
and signed the agreement including them on 19 November 2019.
As I have indicated, a signature is evidence of agreement. There can be cases however 
where there is in fact no actual agreement, even if a person has signed a document  for 
example, where there is undue influence or where a party lacks capacity to enter into a 
contract. Mrs B says that she was misled about the loan terms in this case. Where 
contractual terms are reduced to writing, however, I would need to see very persuasive 
evidence of that before concluding that a written contract did not reflect what was agreed. 
That is particularly so where the terms are in a format prescribed by consumer protection 
legislation  as was the case here. I note as well that the term about which Mrs B says she 
was misled  the interest rate  was a fairly fundamental provision of the loan agreement. I 
think it unlikely that she would have signed the agreement if it said something so different 
from what she believed she had agreed. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Kitchens Plus Ltd to take any 
further steps to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman