DRN-2635471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs W booked a holiday abroad. They took out a travel insurance 
policy through a broker to cover their trip. They were due to travel on 14 June and return on 
21 June 2020. However, due to the Foreign & Commonwealth office (FCO) advising against 
all but essential travel because of Covid-19 on 17 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ws airline 
cancelled their flights. This meant they had to cancel their holiday.
They got in touch with their travel providers to try and recover their funds. They were able to 
get their flight costs back from the airline. Their accommodation provider, which Ill call H, 
didnt offer Mr and Mrs W a cash refund of their costs. But it said it would offer them a credit 
which would allow them to book a holiday either during the same week in June, or any other 
week in June for the next five years. Mr and Mrs W werent happy with this offer, so they 
made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
AWP turned down the claim. It said that while the policy did cover cancellation due to the 
FCO advising against all but essential travel, it only covered costs which a policyholder cant 
get back from elsewhere. As H had offered Mr and Mrs W a credit voucher for their 
accommodation costs, AWP didnt think theyd suffered a financial loss which it needed to 
reimburse.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with AWPs decision. They said that Hs offer wasnt suitable, 
due to their family circumstances and they wouldnt be able to use a holiday in June for at 
least four of the available years. They were also concerned about what would happen if H 
wasnt able to provide the accommodation in five years time. They asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy made it clear that if a policyholder could recover their losses from elsewhere, then 
AWP wasnt liable to pay a claim. He thought Hs offer of an effective credit voucher for Mr 
and Mrs Ws accommodation costs was a fair offer and that it wasnt overly restrictive. So he 
thought it was fair for AWP to conclude Mr and Mrs W hadnt suffered a financial loss and to 
turn down their claim. He noted that Mr and Mrs W had raised concerns with AWP about 
what would happen if, during the next five years, Hs situation changed and it couldnt 
honour its offer, or Covid-19 restrictions remained in place. He suggested that if any of those 
scenarios arose in the future, Mr and Mrs W could get back in touch with AWP. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They sent in a detailed response to our investigator, which Ive 
summarised below:
AWP had told them that it cover wouldnt be in place if H couldnt honour its offer due 
to, amongst other things, bankruptcy; the sale of the accommodation or if H refused 
to honour its offer;
Theyd been told they couldnt buy insurance for a holiday which was further than 12 
months away. This would leave them without insurance for their future stay with H, 
unless they take out a policy every year until 2025, when they may be able to use the 
accommodation;
Travelling in June would mean that their daughter, who is also named on the policy 
and who planned to travel on the trip, wouldnt be able to accompany them. If the 
holiday was rebooked for just Mr and Mrs W, then their daughter wouldnt benefit 
from the insurance policy;
Their financial loss hasnt been recovered as they havent been reimbursed by H and 
they cant currently plan future travel;
Given the current global vaccine programme, its possible that governments will 
require travellers to have had a Covid-19 vaccine before they can travel and it isnt 
clear when Mr and Mrs W will get their vaccine. And there are currently further 
restrictions and quarantine procedures in place, making future travel plans difficult;
The broker who sold this policy no longer sells travel insurance due to the pandemic. 
They feel this shows that it has reservations about the possibility of future travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AWP has treated Mr and Mrs W fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure that while Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Ws detailed response to our 
investigator, Ive carefully read and considered everything theyve said and sent us. But in 
making my decision, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide 
whether AWP handled the claim reasonably.
Ive considered the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy, as these form the basis of their contract 
with AWP. The cancellation section of the policy says:
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for:
Travel and accommodation expenses which you have paid or have agreed to pay under a 
contract and which you have not used and which you cannot get back (bold is my 
emphasis).
This section of the policy goes on to list a number of specified insured events which AWP 
covers. One of these says:
If after the time you booked your trip or purchased your policy, whichever is later, the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against all (but essential) travel to your intended 
destination and no travel and accommodation expenses are refundable or no alternative 
trip or travel has been offered.Its clear that Mr and Mrs W werent able to travel as planned as a result of Covid-19. I dont 
doubt how disappointing this mustve been for them and I can see that they took steps to try 
and recover their cancellation costs.
AWP says that as Mr and Mrs Ws accommodation provide has offered them a credit 
voucher for the full value of their stay, they havent suffered a financial loss which is covered 
by the policy. And it says that Mr and Mrs W will need to seek a cash refund directly from H if 
they wish to do so. 
Ive seen Hs email offer to Mr and Mrs W. It says that their booking is active and (it) offers 
(them) the opportunity to choose the same date or other in June in the next five years.
From what Ive seen, this offer was for the full value of Mr and Mrs Ws original booking 
costs. So while I can see that H told Mr and Mrs W it couldnt offer a cash refund, I think it 
was fair for AWP to conclude that Mr and Mrs W hadnt suffered a financial loss. I say that 
because H was offering Mr and Mrs W an effective credit voucher for the full amount theyd 
paid out.
This voucher is valid for a period of five years, for any week during each June within that five 
year period. I dont think its unreasonable for AWP to conclude that Mr and Mrs W might be 
able to make use of the voucher during this timeframe. So in my view, the terms of the credit 
voucher arent overly restrictive. While I understand Mr and Mrs W say it would be difficult for 
their daughter to join them for four of those years, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct 
AWP to pay their claim on this basis. I think its fair for AWP to consider that Mr and Mrs W 
may be in a position to use their booking before the end of June 2025.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W might prefer to get a cash refund from H. Especially as I 
appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain and it isnt clear what requirements 
there might be for international travel going forwards. But as Ive explained above, I think it 
was fair for AWP to consider that Mr and Mrs W havent suffered a financial loss in this case. 
Im also persuaded that the terms of Hs offer arent unfairly restrictive.
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy that AWP has told them that it wouldnt cover cancellation 
of the accommodation in certain situations, such as Hs bankruptcy, or the sale of the 
accommodation to another party. I dont think it would be fair for me to tell AWP to pay a 
claim based on hypothetical scenarios. My role is to consider what happened, not what 
might happen in the future. If Mr and Mrs W do find that H cant honour their offer, or travel 
restrictions remain in place in the future, they can get in touch with AWP at that point so that 
it can consider whether or not the circumstances are covered.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W have pointed to the fact that the broker which sold their policy is 
no longer selling travel insurance. However, the broker is a separate, regulated financial 
business to AWP and AWP isnt responsible for decisions it makes. So it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position, because I know how strongly they 
feel about their complaint, I think AWP has treated them fairly. So Im not telling AWP to pay 
their claim.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman