DRN-2530668
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt resolve a problem he had with accessing his 
banking online.
What happened
Mr T has explained that in July 2020 he began to have a problem with accessing TSBs 
online banking facilities. Because of this, he contacted TSB to sort the issue. Mr T has said 
he was told he would need to re-register for online banking, and that this would sort the 
problem.
But, after re-registering, Mr T still couldnt use online banking. He has explained that he was 
eventually told that the problem was something a number of consumers had experienced, 
after TSB changed its security processes for online banking. And that he had actually 
needed to change his username for the online account.
Mr T said he then changed his username, but still couldnt get into his online banking facility. 
He said he contacted TSB on a number of occasions to highlight this, and that the problem 
still hadnt been resolved. But the problem still wasnt sorted. Because Mr T was unhappy 
with this level of service, he raised a complaint with TSB.
TSB acknowledged there had been a problem some consumers had experienced because 
of it changing its security processes, and this had meant the need for Mr T to change his 
username. It apologised for this, and credited Mr Ts bank account with £25 to apologise for 
the issue. 
It also reflected on the fact Mr T was still having problems with logging into this online 
banking facility. In addition to the changing Mr Ts username, it made suggestions to help 
Mr T with getting back onto his account. For example, it suggested Mr T trying a different 
internet browser to access the website, calling the internet banking helpline for assistance, 
or visiting a branch where he could be helped by a member of staff.
Mr T remained unhappy with TSBs response. He said he had already spent a lot of time 
trying to sort the problem and didnt feel it was reasonable to expect him to visit a branch. 
Mr T also said he had tried using a new browser, as well as clearing his cache and cookies, 
but none of these had worked, and he still couldnt get online. 
Because Mr T remained unhappy with TSBs response, he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review. He said the problems he had experienced had meant 
hours of attempting to sort the problem. And this had caused inconvenience and anguish. 
So, Mr T felt TSB should increase its offer of compensation, in addition to enabling him to 
use online banking again. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ts complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that TSB had offered Mr T reasonable support options  such as calling the internet banking 
helpline so it could provide support to Mr T with resolving the problem. And she felt the £25 
compensation offered in this case was fair.
Mr T didnt agree. He said he didnt feel £25 was sufficient compensation. And, he said he 
had tried calling internet banking, and not been able to get through to someone  as well as 
time on the phone to the customer services department, who hadnt been able to help him.
As Mr T disagreed with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ive explained the reasons for 
my decision below. 
From the information provided by both parties, its clear Mr T has experienced a problem 
with accessing his online banking account. TSB has accepted that initially the reason Mr T 
wasnt able to log into his online banking was because of a change in its security 
requirements. Because this issue isnt in dispute, I havent needed to consider it any further 
here.
However, what I have needed to consider is whether TSB provided Mr T with the support it 
should have, when Mr T informed it of the problem in logging on to his online account. 
To understand what assistance was offered to Mr T, Ive looked at the conversation history 
between Mr T and TSB. From doing so, I can see Mr T contacted TSB via the online chat 
function at the very beginning of July 2020, to explain he couldnt log on to his account. 
At that point, TSB told Mr T to alter his log in details  his password, and memorable 
information. Two days later, when Mr Y contacted TSB again, it suggested Mr T use a 
particular web browser, and to clear the internet cache and cookies. Its my understanding 
Mr T tried both of these things, and it didnt resolve the issue.
So, a week later Mr T contacted TSB via online chat once more. It was at this point TSB told 
Mr T that the problem would be because of a change in its security requirements, and that 
Mr T would need to re-register for online banking, and change his username, so that it fit 
with TSBs new security criteria. 
I can understand why Mr T was unhappy at this point. It wasnt until the third time he 
contacted TSB that it told him of the known issue with his username. And the advisor Mr T 
spoke to on the third occasion wasnt able to give an explanation of why Mr T had not been 
told this information previously. Instead, they just said the other advisors may not have 
known the issue.
I do think that if this issue was known, it would have been reasonable for TSB to at least tell 
Mr T of this when he initially contacted it. It took ten days, and three times of contacting TSB 
for Mr T to receive the above information. And its clear this has been distressing for Mr T. 
He had needed to spend time of trying to get this sorted and understand what was 
happening with his banking facilities.  So, I can appreciate the upset this caused to Mr T.
TSB has offered Mr T £25 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced in respect of 
the above. And, it said if Mr T had experienced another financial loss  such as phone call 
costs, or parking charges because Mr T had needed to visit a branch, would review these costs too. Ive thought about whether this offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And, I think it was. 
I say this because I think this offer fairly recognises the inconvenience caused to Mr T during 
the ten days it wasnt made clear that he needed to change his username.
I understand Mr T has said he feels the compensation offered in this situation should be 
increased. In particular because Mr T has explained he still isnt able to access online 
banking, and this has caused a large amount of inconvenience. But I dont think it would be 
fair to hold TSB accountable for Mr T being unable to access his online banking here. 
I say this because I havent seen any firm evidence to show Mr T cant get online because of 
a mistake by TSB, rather than because of other factors. And, I do think TSB has tried to 
assist Mr T further, by providing other options that can be taken, to help Mr T get back 
online.
During Mr Ts last online conversation with TSB in July 2020, he was advised to clear his 
internet cache and cookies again and try a different web browser, now he had sorted the 
issue with his personal security details. Mr T responded and said he wasnt willing to 
download different software, and that clearing his cache again would lose passwords for 
other sites, so he didnt want to do this either. 
Whilst I understand Mr T took these actions before, and they didnt resolve any outstanding 
issues, I think it was a reasonable suggestion for TSB to make, now the log in information 
had been sorted. So, I think TSB did offer Mr T ways other to attempt to resolve the problem 
in suggesting this. 
TSB has also said it could also help Mr T in branch, or via the internet banking telephone 
line Mr T has reservations about attending a branch at the moment. And I can appreciate 
why. But TSB has also suggested another viable option for assisting Mr T  phoning the 
internet banking helpline. I do note Mr T has said he has tried to call this before. But I cant 
see he has waited on the line long enough to speak to someone, and see if they can help 
remedy the problem. I note it may take some time to connect with someone on this line  for 
example at busy times. But I think this is a reasonable alternative to visiting a branch. And, 
TSB has offered to review phone call costs in relation to Mr T calling to sort the problem. 
Based on what Ive seen, TSB has provided a number of suggestions and options to help 
Mr T resolve any outstanding issues. So, I think it has provided the assistance it should do, 
on learning the online banking facility wasnt working for Mr T. Given that Im satisfied TSB 
has acted fairly in the suggested ways it could support  I dont require it do anything more 
here. Mr T is welcome to contact TSB in the above suggested ways, for support with the 
issue.
My final decision
Given the above, Im satisfied the £25 compensation TSB Bank plc has paid Mr T is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. As is its offer to consider further costs, such as phone call 
charges and parking costs. And therefore, I dont require TSB Bank plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman