DRN-2691055
The complaint
Mr H complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Lender has supplied some information about the five loans it lent to Mr H. This table 
summarises the lending briefly.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Scheduled 
InstalmentsAmount Highest Repayment
1 20/10/2015 28/10/2015 2 £150.00 £108.60
2 14/11/2015 05/12/2015 2 £150.00 £115.80
3 21/12/2015 15/03/2016 6 £700.00 £273.46
4 02/08/2016 21/09/2016 12 £1,500.00 £408.50
5 28/12/2016 09/04/2020 12 £1,500.00 £316.81
Mr H says that he was £17,000 in debt at the time he took the £1,500 loans, and he had 
other short term loans to repay. He has explained that the £17,000 debts related to money 
from his family which he is repaying over time.
For the later £1,500 loan, by which I think Mr H means Loan 5, Mr H has accepted: 
I didn't fully state my expenditure at the time of applying for the loan which meant that I was 
granted it. This was because I was desperate to get the loan to pay off other loans. 
And Mr H has explained: It got to the point where I was paying out more than what I was 
earning which was done by taking out more pay day is obviously not sustainable.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mr Lender should put 
things right for Loans 4 and 5. The reason given was that a high proportion of Mr Hs income
was being used to repay those loans, so she thought that there was a significant risk that 
Mr H was not going to be able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow 
again.
Mr Lender disagreed and specifically pointed out:
Loan 4 is the start of a new loan chain
For Loan 4 Mr H had a disposable income of £720 and so could afford it
For Loan 5 Mr H had a disposable income of £632 and so could afford it
The instalment loan repayment schedule showed a decreasing amount in the 
monthly repayments as the loan term progressed
Mr Lenders checks were proportionate
Mr H may have provided Mr Lender with incorrect information and so Mr H should
account for that  he should exercise responsible borrowing
the ombudsman service has approached the complaint in a tick box manner
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said I was planning to uphold Loans 4 and 5. My provisional 
findings are set out in the next section of this decision in full. They are in italicised type-face 
to differentiate from my final decision findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
My provisional findings from my provisional decision dated 17 December 2020
Mr H has not disagreed with our adjudicators opinion. And I saw from Mr Hs complaint form 
that he was concerned about the later and larger loans. So, the earlier loans 1 to 3 did not
appear to be ones I needed to review as they seemed undisputed. So, I have made no
findings on those three. I have incorporated them into the overall picture when reviewing the
lending relationship. But I focussed on Loans 4 and 5 as they remained in dispute.
The overall lending relationship is one chain of lending and I do not agree with Mr Lenderwhere it says that Loan 4 was a new chain of lending. There is a break between Mr H
repaying Loan 3 and being approved for Loan 4, but not long enough, in my view, to lead
Mr Lender to approach Mr H as if he was a new customer after the break of four and a half
months. I have reviewed the loans as being consecutive.
Mr H has said that he was £17,000 in debt but this is not revealed on his credit file and the
reason for that is because Mr H has said that a lot of it were private loans within his family.
I would not have expected Mr Lender to have known about that debt unless he had declared
it to them. And as Mr H has not sent us information to demonstrate these loans and the
repayments on them then I have not been able to consider them. I have had to discount that
account of the additional debt.
Mr Lender has sent us summaries of the lending relationship. These included the loan
agreements, the declared income and outgoings when Mr H applied, the explanations on its
view of the loan applications, a very brief summary of any credit check results it did for each
loan and a summary of the repayments. I asked Mr Lender for some more details about the
results for Loans 4 and 5. The extra detail I received is set out here:
Loan 4
Credit Score 594 (This is a top 10% high credit score. The average score we see from is 
c.550)
Defaults in previous 12 months: 0
Delinquencies in previous 12 months: 0
Active Accounts: 3
Outstanding AAIs (Advances against Income): 0 
CCJ, IVA and Bankruptcy: False
Loan 5
Credit Score: 594 (This is a top 10% high credit score. The average score we see from is 
c.550)
Defaults in previous 12 months: 0
Delinquencies in previous 12 months: 0
Active Accounts: 3
Outstanding AAIs (Advances against Income): 0
CCJ, IVA and Bankruptcy: False
Mr Lenders justification for approving Loans 4 and 5 is that Mr Hs declared income and 
outgoings, combined with its affordability calculations and its own credit searches led it to 
decide that they were affordable to Mr H.
Mr Lender has calculated that to repay Loan 4 it would have taken 57% of Mr Hs disposable 
income and 37% of his net income. 
For Loan 5 Mr Lender had calculated: 
The highest amount repayable on this loan would have been £316.81 and this would 
have been against a disposable income of £632. This is just 50 % of the disposable 
income and just 30 % of the net income of £1,047.00.
My view is that the overall picture presents where Loan 4 was Mr Hs fourth loan in ten
months and he was asking for more than double the sum needed the last time. A net
monthly income of £1,100 (declared by Mr H) which had gone up a bit from £950 for the
earlier loans, would still be viewed as a relatively low level of income.My view, on Mr Lenders calculations, is that 37% of Mr Hs net income each month for 
Loan 4 and 30% of Mr Hs net monthly income for Loan 5 were figures which I think were a
high proportion of that income and not easily manageable.
I was aware that the instalment repayments for Loans 4 and 5 were on a sliding scale and
gradually reduced over the 12 month term for each. I factored this in.
But I have different written evidence from Mr H which is that he had a lot of debt and other
short term loans around the time he took these £1,500 loans  Loans 4 and 5. But the credit
report details Mr Lender has sent me do not show this. To try to resolve this I have looked to
see what Mr Hs credit file combined with the Mr Lenders assessment tells me. Mr Hs own
personal credit file has been sent to us and at the time Mr H applied for Loan 4, he had one
loan taken out with another lender on 30 July 2016 and the credit file reports that his
repayments were three lots of £547. So, this would have been open for some of the time that
Loan 4 was open.
The reality is that Mr H would have been paying the other lender £547 a month for three
months which would have been up to October or November 2016 on top of the planned
repayments for Loan 4. If Mr Lender had known this then my view is that it likely would have
appreciated that Loan 4 was not affordable to him.
Mr Lender may say that the approval of the loans just before it approved Loans 4 and 5 were
too close in time for its credit searches to have revealed them and so it was justified in not
incorporating them into their affordability assessment. I have thought about that. I have
limited information from Mr H, but his credit file I do have. And I can see from that record that
Mr H had been taking a series of loans from that other lender and the loans approved just
before Loans 4 and 5 from Mr Lender were just the latest in a sequence from that other
lender. Mr J had been paying that other lender several hundred pounds a month for some
time. So, I think that one of the loans would have been picked up and recognised by
Mr Lender if a full review had been done.
Three months after settling Loan 4 (which was repaid early) Mr H applied for another £1,500
which was approved and became Loan 5. Mr Hs personal credit file reveals that he had just
settled one loan with the same other lender on 10 December 2016 and he had just taken
another with that same lender on 21 December 2016. That was due to be repaid over two
payments of £366 each. The points I made about Loan 4, I repeat here.
Again, Mr Hs net monthly income would still be considered relatively low, and 50% and 30%
as proportions of disposable and net monthly income respectively were high and I think
would have been difficult to manage. Added to which he would have had another loan to
repay for two months going forward into Loan 5.
As I referred to earlier in this decision, the loan payments being affordable on a pounds and
pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay
without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the
repayments.
And I think that for Loans 4 and 5, Mr Lender needed to go further because of how long the
parties had been involved with each other  an established lending relationship  and
because of the amount Mr H was asking for, plus that these would have extended his debt
liability for a further 12 months. I think by this stage in the lending relationship a full financial
review would have been the proportionate way to check Mr H was able to repay Loans 4
and 5.I have made a provisional decision that using Mr Hs evidence shown in his credit reports
leads me to think that he had another loan just before each of the Loans 4 and 5 were
approved by Mr Lender. And these were the latest in a series from that other lender. And
whilst I appreciate that Mr Lender will say that its credit searches did not reveal any AAIs,
Mr Hs credit file shows me that he did. And the repayments of these plus the Mr Lender
loans were not likely sustainable.
So, I have come to a provisional conclusion, on the evidence I have now, that a full financial
review which is what I think Mr Lender ought to have carried out before approving Loans 4
and 5, would likely have revealed a person in continuous debt with other high cost credit
providers and as such the larger loans over an extended period of 12 months were not likely
sustainably affordable.
I am planning to uphold both Loans 4 and 5.
What both parties said in response 
Mr H agreed with my provisional decision and had no more to add.
Mr Lender was not content and has asked me to consider some points. It says that although 
Mr H has been able to show that he had other outstanding debts at the time of the 
applications for Loans 4 and 5, it as the assessing lender has shown that this was not the 
case. It goes on to explain that its lending decision as based on information pulled from the 
credit search it did.
Mr Lender explained that as Mr H has told it he was repaying £50 each month to other credit 
providers and that accorded with what it says it had seen from its own credit search and For 
this reason we did not deem it proportionate to request any further information from [Mr H], 
as none of the borrowing history or checks we carried out highlighted any cause for 
concern. 
Ive relooked at all this and my decision is to exercise my discretion on the grounds of being 
fair and reasonable in favour of Mr H. Ive thought about what Mr Lender has provided in 
terms of the credit search results, but it hasnt really provided anything new. So, my findings 
are still the same as those set out in my provisional decision.
And this is not the only reason that I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. The other reasons 
relate to the fact he was a relatively low-level earner and these loan repayments for Loans 4 
and 5 would have represented a relatively high proportion of his income. 
I said in my provisional decision that , on Mr Lenders own calculations, the repayments were 
going to be 37% of Mr Hs net income each month for Loan 4 and 30% of Mr Hs net monthly 
income for Loan 5. I think that these figures represent a high proportion of Mr Hs low level 
income and not easily manageable. But Mr Lender has not mentioned or sent anything to 
add to this part of my provisional decision findings. 
All my provisional decision findings are repeated here as final findings. 
I uphold Mr Hs complaint for Loans 4 and 5. 
Putting things right
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr H loans 4 and 5, and so I direct that it should do as Ive 
set out below. In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H from Loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and Mr Lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr H in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it
has done wrong and should put right. 
Mr Lender should:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything you have already refunded; and
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) pay Mr H the total of A plus B; and
D) remove any adverse payment information you have recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. If you have sold any of the loans you should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. It needs to
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct that PDL Finance 
Limited trading as Mr Lender does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Rachael WilliamsOmbudsman