DRN-2869293
The complaint
Ms R complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited havent met a claim on the Parts and 
Garage Cover (PGC) element of her roadside assistance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In May 2021 I issued my provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. Extracts from my provisional decision are below and this forms part of my 
final decision.
In July 2020 Ms Rs car broke down. She understood the reason for this was due to a 
cooling fan issue. She took it to a garage, who fixed it. She broke down again in 
August 2020  and this time understood it was due to a catalytic converter. She asked 
Acromas to pay for this as well, but they said they wouldnt, so she complained.
Acromas said the claim had been correctly turned down. They said as the fault has been 
ongoing since a previous breakdown, and shed been able to drive the car since the first 
fault, they wont assess the claim any further.
Unhappy with this Ms R contacted us and said she had a problem with her car and called out 
Acromas. She was told she had a problem with her catalytic converter and needed to get it 
looked at as soon as possible. She said she understood the policy terms covered catalytic 
converters. But, Acromas said they wouldnt meet the claim, so she asked us to look into 
things. She clarified shed only been told there was a cooling fan issue from the first 
breakdown.
Acromas explained when we asked for their side of things that on the first breakdown the 
garage had confirmed the only issue was a warning light  and it was OK to drive. In 
addition, it was established the same issue regarding the catalytic converter Ms R claimed 
for in August 2020 was identified in the previous call out in July. So, they identified the issue 
in the first breakdown in July, this wasnt repaired by the garage, and it then manifested a 
month later with Ms R having driven several hundred miles since. They said theyd consider 
this a pre-existing fault, and also a slow progressive fault  neither of which would be 
covered under the policy terms. They also felt Ms R needed to provide their patrolmans 
report to the garage for them to investigate things when she took her car there.
Our investigator considered everything and felt the complaint should be upheld. He 
acknowledged the first report did talk about the catalytic converter, but felt the important 
information was contained in the message element of the report. This only talked about the 
cooling fan, not the converter. He didnt think the fault code would have alerted Ms R to the 
potential issue unless it was highlighted by one of Acromas technicians. And he was 
satisfied based on the content of the message, and Ms Rs recollections, it wasnt. He felt 
because of this, Ms R was denied the opportunity to raise this with the garage for them to 
investigate.
Acromas felt our investigator wasnt taking into account all the evidence about the fault. And 
they repeated their comments that Ms R needed to provide a copy of the report to the 
garage, for them to consider things, rather than interpreting the report herself. Acromas also 
explained they only covered faults that caused the breakdown  but as good practice theyd 
point out any other issues which is why the catalytic converter was mentioned on the report 
from July even though it didnt cause the breakdown. So, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain when considering a claim under an insurance policy, I need to 
consider what the policy covers. If the policy doesnt cover Ms Rs situation, then it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to require Acromas to meet her claim, unless theyd made a 
mistake.
Ms Rs argument is that because the catalytic converter is covered under the policy terms 
then the payment should be met. Acromass argument is this wouldnt ever have been 
covered under the policy terms.
To help me decide this, Ive thought about each breakdown, and whether each situation 
should mean Acromas are required to meet this claim.
First breakdown
In the first breakdown its clearly mentioned the issue is about the cooling fan. In the 
recorded notes Acromass technician has diagnosed theres a catalytic converter issue, but 
the notes primarily talk about the cooling fan. I think the notes are more of a reflection of the 
conversation with Ms R, so it seems reasonable to say it was the cooling fan that was the 
topic of discussion. Ms R has also told us her understanding for the breakdown was purely 
because of the cooling fan. I think thats evidenced by her confusion about why the catalytic 
converter hasnt been paid out when the second breakdown happened.
Acromas have said the only reason the catalytic converter was mentioned is because their 
diagnostic tool picked it up when diagnosing the cooling fan. It does seem as though the 
reason for the breakdown was the cooling fan. The garage where she got it repaired only 
talks about the cooling fan - and Ms R has been able to drive her car for several hundred 
miles after it was initially repaired. That suggests the garage fixed the issue that caused the 
breakdown.
Theres a general exclusion in the policy terms for Acromas which says theyll only pay for 
claims made which caused the breakdown. So, I dont think I can fairly require Acromas to 
meet the cost of the catalytic converter as part of the first breakdown  because it doesnt 
seem to have caused it.
Second breakdown
Acromas have turned down this claim for a number of reasons  one of which say its 
because its a pre-existing fault which hasnt been fixed.The information was reported in the first breakdown notes, and again in the second one. So, 
at face value, it doesnt seem as though Acromas are acting unfairly by turning down the 
claim for a pre-existing fault.
Ive thought about Acromass point that the notes given to Ms R on the first breakdown say 
she needs to get things checked over. And Acromas think itd be reasonable for her to have 
passed over the information given to her about the first breakdown to the garage when 
getting the fault fixed.
Im persuaded by this argument. I dont think itd have been unreasonable for Ms R to pass 
over the information, or for the garage to ask for it. Although Acromass technician seemingly 
didnt tell her about the issues with the catalytic converter, I dont think this can mean theyre 
responsible for the costs of it becoming an issue later on  when the information was 
available to her. Ive also not been provided with anything to suggest the cooling fan, and the 
catalytic converter, are linked to each other. So, this would also suggest the fault found 
during the first breakdown, but not repaired at the garage, is the same fault that caused the 
second breakdown.
I do understand her frustration this wasnt directly mentioned during the first breakdown. But 
as that wasnt the focus of the issue, the cooling fan was, I think thats understandable. Im 
satisfied Acromas had provided enough information for her, or her garage, to have been 
aware of the issue. Because of that, I currently dont think Acromas are required to do 
anything further and dont plan on telling them to meet her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms R replied in detail, and Ive summarised the most relevant elements to her complaint in 
my own words:
She did provide the report to the garage  and the only fault they found was on the 
cooling fan. 
On the first breakdown she was told all the faults had been cleared.
On the second breakdown it was the catalytic converter that caused the issue and 
she was told by Acromas technician she was covered.
She said when the garage called Acromas they said theyd only cover it if there was 
a loss of power, and she said there was a loss of power. 
She had the car fixed because Acromas told her they wouldnt be covering the claim.
But she then got a further call a few weeks later to say someone would come out to 
look at the car  but shes had it fixed and the garage didnt have any parts now. She 
said it was only after this they said they wouldnt cover it as it was a pre-existing fault. 
She felt it was unprofessional of Acromas to have lost all the calls. 
Given some of this information was new, I asked Acromas to provide their comments on it. 
They essentially reiterated their own comments about why it was fair for the claim to be 
turned down.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry if Ive misquoted Ms R. Our investigator asked her to confirm that the garage wasnt 
asked to report on the catalytic converter issue. She replied and said yes thats correct the 
only issue was the fan and she got that sorted. Ive thought about whether this changes things, and although I appreciate Ms R will be 
disappointed, I dont think it does. I say that because, effectively, once the garage has been 
made aware of the issues then its for them to fix. 
I cant ever know what exactly happened, but I have to consider there was a fault found 
during the first patrol in relation to a catalytic converter. This should then be properly and 
fully investigated by the garage to fix any potential issues. 
So, here weve got Ms R breaking down with the catalytic converter being at least noted as 
an issue. It seems unlikely to me that if this had been properly fixed itd come up as an issue 
just one month later  when itd already been identified as an issue by Acromas the first time 
around.
I cant know why the issues werent properly fixed, but I do think it means Acromass point 
this was a pre-existing fault is still fair. As a result, I still wont be asking Acromas to pay 
Ms Rs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman