DRN-3929151
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr U complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) damaged 
their downstairs toilet during emergency repairs it was conducting under their home 
emergency policy.
Please note for ease Ill refer to Mrs A throughout this decision as she has been the primary 
complainant. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Following a callout for a blocked, overflowing and leaking upstairs toilet, Mrs A says the 
engineer damaged her downstairs toilet. She said the engineer was trying to clear the 
blockage from the drain just outside her downstairs toilet, but they caused a hole in the 
bottom of the toilet pan. 
Admiral has said that its engineer mentioned that while on site they were asked to look at the 
downstairs toilet, and the engineer recommended a plumber attend and replace the toilet 
due to a crack in the unit.
Mrs A phoned and complained the same day and informed Admiral that the engineer had 
caused the damage.
Admiral acknowledges its been told two conflicting stories and says it cannot see that it has 
been given enough proof to say that the engineer did in fact cause the damage.
It said if Mrs A was able to provide any more proof of the engineer causing the damage, and 
any proof that the unit was not broken prior to the visit, it would consider this further.
Mrs A says the downstairs toilet had no problem prior to this visit. She said if she had an 
issue with it, shed have reported it like she had with her upstairs toilet.
Our investigator upheld the complaint she was persuaded by Mrs As testimony and 
requested Admiral to rectify the situation by whatever means viable. Mrs A accepted the 
investigators view on the complaint, but Admiral have not replied so the complaint has been 
passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the timeline of events, Mrs A first put in a claim in early January 2022. There 
is only a report of the upstairs toilet being blocked overflowing and leaking through the 
ceiling. Mrs A was asked if there was another toilet in the house and this is recorded on 
Admirals notes as yes. There is nothing to suggest at this point there was a problem with 
the other toilet.
A couple of weeks later Mrs A had to get Admiral to come out again as the upstairs toilet 
was still leaking and there was a suspected drainage problem that wasnt rectified. Again, I 
can see no notes to suggest Mrs A has made any reference to not having a working toilet in 
the property. 
When the contractor visited the notes recorded say: 
Arrived on site to blocked toilet, tried to clear blockage with plunger with no success, took 
pan connector off any tried to use rods and a wheel to clear but the wheel was hitting 
something solid, found stack which has a rodding eye, Jetted downstream from rodding eye 
but could not jet upstream as the upstairs toilet is coming in blind, would recommend a 
CCTV survey to find any issues with pipework, as I was about to leave property the 
customer came out and said that there was a problem with the down stairs toilet, I went to 
have a look recommend a plumber to attend to change the downstairs toilet as when our 
engineer looked there was a crack in it. We also recommend a CCTV survey to investigate 
issues with the pipe work.
After this visit Mrs A called Admiral to report the toilet had been broken by the engineer, and 
now she had no working toilet in the house.
When there is conflicting information like in this case, I will have to make a decision on a 
balance of probability. Mrs A has provided photographs that show not just a crack but a hole 
at the bottom of the pan and scratch marks are all round this which I think on balance 
couldve been caused by rodding. 
Im persuaded by Mrs As testimony that if she had another broken toilet, shed have 
contacted her insurer as she had for the upstairs toilet. She had no reason to ignore the 
downstairs toilet being broken and then wait for the engineer to turn up to say that it needs 
looking in to, shed have reported it alongside the claim for the upstairs toilet. I also think if 
there had been a problem prior to the visit, Mrs A wouldve been reporting to Admiral the 
urgency as she had no working toilet in the house for her and her family to use. 
Putting things right
Im therefore persuaded that the toilet is more likely to have been damaged in error by the 
engineer and I instruct Admiral to put Mrs A back in the position she was prior to the 
engineers visit by either repairing it or if a lasting and effective repair isnt possible replacing 
the toilet.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman