DRN-3282618
The complaint
Mr A complains about two loans from Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, 
(Bamboo), which he says were unaffordable. 
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr A with two loans. Loan 1 was for £1,300 and was taken out in     
August 2018. Loan 2 was for £1,768.90 and was taken out in February 2019. Mr A received 
£886.76 from the proceeds of Loan 2 as the rest of the proceeds were used to repay Loan 1. 
Some of the information Bamboo provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 21 August 
201811 February 
2019£1,300 11 monthly 
repayments 
of £150.75 
and 1 
monthly 
repayment of 
£150.8012
2. 11 February 
2019Not yet 
repaid£1,768.90 59 monthly 
repayments 
of £101.21 
and 1 
monthly 
repayment of 
££101.23 60
The interest rate on Loan 1 was 65.88%, (89.9% APR). If Mr A made each payment when it 
was due, hed pay £1,809.05 in total.
Mr A referred to Loan 2 as a top up loan and he received £886.76 from the loan proceeds. 
The amount of £882.14 was taken from the loan proceeds by Bamboo to repay Loan 1. The 
interest rate on Loan 2 was 65.88%, (89.9% APR). If Mr A made each payment when it was 
due, hed pay £6,072.62 in total. 
Mr A says that the loans were unaffordable for him and Bamboo would have realised this if it
had checked properly before giving him the loans. It would have seen from his credit record 
that he had recently missed payments, he had defaults and he was in a debt management 
plan (DMP). When he took out Loan 2, Bamboo should have seen from his credit record 
that his financial situation had got worse. Mr A wants Bamboo to remove the interest from 
the loan, so he only has to repay what he borrowed.
In its final response letter, Bamboo said that it used an income verification tool, which drew 
on bank account data to check that Mr A had the necessary income.  It said that its 
affordability assessment showed that after deducting Mr As living costs and debt servicing 
costs, he had a disposable income of £186.21 to put towards the proposed loan payment of 
£150.75. It had calculated Mr As living costs using the amount of £391 from statistical data 
and the accommodation costs of £625 declared by Mr A. Bamboo said the debt servicing 
costs were £547.79 which it had taken from its credit checks. Bamboo said that Mr A had 
sufficient disposable income to make the loan sustainably affordable for him and he passed 
its automated checks. So, it had no requirement to ask for any additional proofs, such as 
bank statements.
Bamboo also said that its credit checks showed that Mr A hadnt defaulted on any line of 
credit in over three years, he had not been in arrears by more than one month in the last six 
months and he had no County Court Judgements registered in his name. The majority of his 
active credit was up to date and, whilst it could see that Mr A did have some defaults 
recorded against him, these were historic and reducing so did not give it any cause for 
concern. Bamboo noted that two of Mr As accounts were with a debt collection agency, one 
being a credit card account which was reducing monthly and the other being a 
telecommunications account that had a balance of just £12.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. 
.
Bamboo disagreed and responded to say that it felt Loan 1 should not be upheld, but it 
accepted that there were grounds to support the complaint in respect of Loan 2. It said that 
the main reasons for its decision were:
 The loan term was just 12 months and the loan amount was £1,300  it didnt feel it was 
proportionate to have asked for further evidence from Mr A. His credit report showed he had 
available credit, for example on a credit card with a £300 limit he had an in-credit balance. 
On some of his balances he was paying a greater amount than the minimum which would 
have been required, for example on his card with a limit of £550, he had paid £479 towards a 
balance of just £72 the month prior to the Bamboo application. It wasnt concerned by the 
defaults as these were historic, and Mr A was making repayments towards these
 Mr A had self-declared on Loan 1 that he was paying £625 towards his rent. Bamboo
considered this a very large amount considering he was living with his parents. This £625 
should have comfortably covered all of the bills.
 It appreciated that the affordability was tight, but nonetheless there was affordability there. 
Mr A had a choice to repay the loan between 12 to 60 months and he made a choice to 
select 12 months, feeling comfortable he could afford it. His payment record on this first loan 
showed that he could afford it.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A
and to Bamboo on 27 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id said that Bamboo had accepted that there were some grounds to support the complaint 
about Loan 2 and it said that Loan 2 didnt need to be investigated further. So, Id only 
investigated Loan 1 but included this Services usual redress for Loan 2 in the redress 
section. 
Id noted that when Bamboo lent Loan 1 to Mr A the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Id said that Bamboo would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I didnt go into detail on these points. Id said that 
Bamboo needed to check that Mr A could afford to meet his repayments without difficulty 
before agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could make his 
repayments out of his usual income without having to borrow to meet them, while meeting 
his existing obligations and without the payments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation. The assessment needed to take into account the nature of the credit and 
Mr As circumstances. 
With this in mind, my main consideration was whether Bamboo had treated Mr A fairly when 
it agreed to lend to him. Id thought about whether Bamboo had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing his application to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the 
information it knew, and what it ought reasonably to have known. 
At the time of the loan application for Loan 1, Bamboo gathered some information from Mr A 
about his income and accommodation expenses. It assessed his living costs using statistical 
information and it had also carried out a credit check. 
Mr A had told Bamboo he had a monthly income of £1,750. He said he lived with his parents 
and paid rent of £625. He had three dependents. Bamboo didnt ask Mr A for any information 
about his living costs or whether he made payments to his dependents. It assessed his living 
costs according to statistical information as £391. The lender also assessed Mr As credit 
commitments as £547.79. Bamboo calculated that Mr A had a monthly disposable income of 
£35.46 after its loan repayment was made. I thought there was a very foreseeable risk here 
that Mr A wouldnt have been able to meet his repayments over 12 months without difficulty. 
It wouldnt have taken very much unexpected or seasonal expense to leave Mr A in the 
position of having to borrow to meet his loan repayments. So, I thought Mr A would have 
needed a larger disposable income for the loan to be sustainable. And, I didnt think Bamboo 
made a fair lending decision here to provide the loan to him based on the relatively low 
amount of Mr As disposable income. 
Id asked the investigator to ask Mr A whether the amount of £625 he said he paid for rent 
included all his living costs. He said that the amount of £625 included utilities, but not all his 
living costs. Id also asked the investigator to ask Mr A whether his three dependents were 
living with him or whether he was paying them maintenance. He said that he was paying 
them maintenance of between £400 and £500. So, whilst Bamboo considered the amount of 
£625 to be a very large amount considering Mr A was living with his parents, and it said that 
amount should have comfortably covered all of the bills, it appeared this wasnt the case for 
Mr A. And it appeared that Bamboo hadnt considered whether Mr A was paying 
maintenance to his dependents.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr As 
living costs without verifying them. Bamboo used data from the Office for National Statistics 
(ONS), which was based on the finances and expenditure of the average consumer, to 
estimate Mr As living expenses. But it seemed to me that Mr As circumstances were likely 
to fall outside this average portfolio. So, I didnt think that using ONS data  which was 
unlikely to reflect the existing commitments of someone in Mr As circumstances - was fair 
here. In Mr As situation, I thought it would have been proportionate for Bamboos income 
and expenditure assessment to be tailored to his circumstances. As it wasnt, I didnt think its 
checks were proportionate here.Id also reviewed Bamboos credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr A had          
13 active credit accounts and that four of these had been opened in the previous six months. 
I thought this showed a recent need for credit. Mr A had a total balance outstanding of 
£13,469.
I could see there were three accounts on the credit checks which had been defaulted, the 
last of which was around 39 months prior to Mr As loan application. All three accounts still 
had balances outstanding. It appeared that Mr A was paying monthly payments of £5 and £1 
via a DMP on two of the accounts with respective balances of £1,322 and £1,062, and no 
repayments had been made on one defaulted account with a balance of £12.
I appreciated that having some historic debt wasnt automatically a barrier to taking on 
further credit. But I thought Bamboo ought to have taken further steps to check that Mr A 
would be able to meet its repayments sustainably, given he wasnt potentially able to clear 
his existing debts without borrowing again. 
Bamboo was likely to be aware from its credit check that Mr A had borrowed a short term 
loan of around £365 just two months prior to his application to Bamboo. It also appeared that 
Mr A had taken out another eight short term loans  between mid-January 2018 and          
late-March 2018. I thought the relatively recent high cost credit borrowing might have caused 
Bamboo concerns as I didnt think this suggested that Mr A had been managing his money 
well in the months before his loan application. He was also using six credit cards and the 
balances on two of these were near their respective credit limits of £200 and £300. The 
checks showed that Mr As last monthly payments on these two cards were just £7 and £10 
respectively.
 
I also said that Bamboo would be aware that its credit checks might not have provided a 
complete picture of Mr As credit commitments at the time of his loan application. The 
information wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Also, not all lenders 
reported to the same credit reference agencies. 
In addition, Id noted that the amount of Mr As monthly credit commitments (based on those 
calculated by Bamboo) together with Bamboos monthly loan repayment amount totalled 
around 40% of his income. I thought that Bamboo ought to have been concerned about this 
and that it was unlikely to be sustainable over 12 months.
Id said I wasnt going to investigate what further checks might have shown in view of what 
Id said above. In particular, I thought Bamboo should have had significant concerns about 
the relatively low disposable income it had calculated based in part on statistical figures and 
without consideration being given to the maintenance paid by Mr A to his three dependents. I 
also thought Bamboo ought to have reasonably expected that Mr A would be likely to incur 
unexpected expenses over a term of 12 months, especially as he had three dependents. 
And I was satisfied that the available information demonstrated that Mr A wasnt in a position 
to take on any more debt and so Bamboos decision to arrange the loan wasnt fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
But I thought it worth mentioning that Id reviewed the credit report Mr A had provided to this 
Service. I could see that this showed that Mr A had a significantly larger amount of existing 
credit at the time of his loan application than that shown in Bamboos credit checks. I could 
see hed taken out two payday loans in the ten days prior to the loan application as well as a 
new mail order account in the same month. In addition, Id noted that Bamboo had referred 
to a credit card with an available credit limit of £300 in its response to the investigators view. 
But I could see that by July 2018, this card had a balance of £300. Another credit card which showed a balance of £32 in Bamboos credit checks had an increased balance of £386 by 
July 2018. 
Id noted that Bamboo had said that Mr As payment record on Loan 1 showed that he could 
afford it. But I could see that hed repaid his first four repayments and then he paid his fifth 
repayment late and incurred a late fee. Mr A had then sought a top up loan from Bamboo 
and took out Loan 2.
So, Mr A had only made five out of 12 repayments on Loan 1 before seeking a top up and 
one of those was late. And I didnt think the repayments he did make necessarily meant that 
the loan repayments were repaid without the repayments having a significant adverse effect 
on his financial situation. In particular, Id noted from the credit report provided by Mr A that 
he had taken out two payday loans and opened two new credit cards within four months of 
obtaining Bamboos loan.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think Bamboo had acted fairly when it provided 
Loan 1 to Mr A. And, subject to any further representations by Mr A or Bamboo, I intended to 
uphold Mr As complaint about Loan 1. As Bamboo had upheld Mr As complaint about   
Loan 2, my proposed award also included our usual directions for that loan, and I said 
Bamboo should put things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I understand that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and that Loan 2 hasnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Mr A back into the position he would have been had                
Loans 1 and 2 not been agreed for him, Bamboo needs to ensure that Mr A only repays the 
total amount of money he received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2. So, 
Bamboo needs to:
1. Add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been given 
Loans 1 and 2. For the avoidance of doubt this added up amount should not include 
any interest, charges, document or any other administration fees;
2. The payments Mr A made (to Loans 1 and 2) should be deducted from this amount;
3. Any payments made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds the amount of 
money Mr A received should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr A;
4. Interest at 8% per year simple should be paid on any overpayments made, if they 
were, from the date they were paid by Mr A to the date of settlement;*
5. If the total amount of money paid by Mr A doesnt exceed the total amount of money 
he received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2 (and for the avoidance of 
doubt any outstanding balance shouldnt include any interest, charges and document 
or other administration fees), Bamboo should treat Mr A positively and 
sympathetically regarding repayment of the balance. This may mean agreeing a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan with him; and
6. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file as a result of Loans 1 
and 2. 
If Bamboo has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 2 it should buy it back if it is able to do so 
or chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If Bamboo isnt able to buy the 
debt back or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about 
steps 1. to 6. above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. Mr A responded to my provisional decision to say he agreed with it.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr A and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold Mr As complaint about Loan 1 and require Bamboo to take the steps set out above 
under the heading Putting things right - what Bamboo needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint about Loan 1. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, to put things right as Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman