DRN-3914686
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the claim process and service he received from AWP P&C SA (AWP) 
when trying to make a claim under his motor warranty.
What happened
Mr A has a motor warranty for his vehicle underwritten by AWP. When Mr A noticed three 
separate issues with his vehicle, he took it to a manufacturer garage and let them know he 
had a warranty with AWP.
The garage told Mr A that there would be a delay in them being able to book his vehicle in 
for an inspection due to appointment availability, and that hed need to pay separate charges 
for diagnosing each of the three issues. They also said hed be responsible for paying for 
their diagnostic fees before AWP would be able to say whether he had a valid claim under 
his warranty.
Mr A was unhappy with this and complained to AWP. After logging the complaint, AWP had 
eight weeks to issue a final response, but they were unable to do so by the relevant date. 
When the eight-week period expired, AWP let Mr A know he could approach this service at 
that point.
Around a month later, AWP issued their final response and said that it was Mr As 
responsibility to pay for diagnostics in the first instance, and the policy terms outlined this. 
They outlined that they would pay for these if there was a valid claim. They also noted 
Mr As concerns with the manufacturer garage and delays in available appointments, and 
that diagnosing issues would be separate with an associated charge for each  but they said 
that as they were a separate company to AWP, Mr A would need to approach the 
manufacturer directly to complain about the garage.
Mr A arranged for diagnostics and repairs to be carried out privately at minimal cost (they 
were identified as minor issues). But Mr A would like AWP to refund the cost of the warranty 
and provide compensation, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said that under 
Mr As policy terms, he was responsible for arranging and paying for the diagnosing of 
issues before making a claim to AWP, and they would cover the cost if the claim was found 
to be valid. She thought that process was fair.
The investigator recognised that AWP had delayed sending Mr A written confirmation of the 
process, but both the policy terms and manufacturer garage had outlined the correct process 
 which had been followed, so she didnt think Mr A had been disadvantaged by the delay.
Mr A doesnt agree and has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The manufacturer delays in booking in the vehicle and the associated charges
Mr A is unhappy that when visiting the manufacturer garage there was a delay in them being 
able to book his car in for an inspection. He is also unhappy that the manufacturer garage
charges for diagnosing issues  and each issue separately. 
Whilst I note Mr As concerns, my consideration of his complaint is limited to his warranty 
with AWP and their handling of things. This is because I can only consider complaints about 
regulated businesses carrying out certain activities  AWP here. The manufacturer of 
Mr As vehicle (and their network garage) is a separate company to AWP which doesnt fall 
within my jurisdiction. So, Im not going to comment on the manufacturers availability of 
appointments, their processes, or specific rates they charge for diagnostics, as I dont think 
AWP is responsible for these.
If Mr A is unhappy with the manufacturer and/or their garage, hed need to raise it with them 
directly.
The claim process
Mr A is unhappy that he needs to cover the cost of diagnosing issues with his vehicle before 
making a claim to AWP. Hes concerned that if AWP then didnt accept his claim, he wouldnt 
be able to recover those costs he incurred.
The terms of Mr As policy confirm:
It is your responsibility to authorise any dismantling of the insured vehicle or any 
other work required to diagnose any faults with the insured vehicle.
We will only pay for diagnostic costs directly associated with a valid claim under this 
insurance.
With an insurance claim, the onus is generally on a policyholder to show an insured event 
has occurred. Under the terms of Mr As policy, AWP is confirming that if there is a valid 
claim, theyd cover the costs of the diagnostics. I dont think thats unfair. By contrast, if there 
wasnt a valid claim under the warranty, I wouldnt expect AWP to be responsible for the cost 
of diagnosing uninsured issues on behalf of Mr A.
Therefore, whilst I recognise Mr A is unhappy with the process that hed need to follow in the 
event of a claim, thats in line with the terms of his policy and I dont think thats unfair or 
unreasonable.The delay in responding to Mr A
Mr A is also unhappy he had to wait around three months for AWP to provide a response 
confirming whether he was required to pay for diagnostics in the first instance. He said that 
because of the delay, he had to keep moving his vehicle inspection appointments. And Mr A 
then went on to arrange private repairs in the interim, whilst he awaited confirmation from 
AWP that he was responsible.
I cant consider complaint handling by AWP in isolation as it doesnt fall within my jurisdiction 
to do so. But I can consider how long it took AWP to confirm to Mr A that he needed to pay 
for diagnostics in the first instance. And I agree that it took a long time for them to outline this 
in writing.
However, like our investigator, I dont think this delay has disadvantaged Mr A. Whilst he 
chose to wait for a written response (which happened to be via a complaint final response), 
and moved appointments etc. in the interim, hed already been told the correct process when 
he first took his vehicle into the garage - and this was also outlined in his policy terms. 
Therefore, Mr A was already made aware of the correct process from the outset.
I also note that Mr A sent some follow up emails to AWP asking them to provide confirmation 
sooner, but he also could have contacted AWP by telephone if he was unhappy at having to 
wait for AWPs written response and wanted clarification of the policy terms sooner.
With the above in mind, and whilst I appreciate itll disappoint Mr A, Im not going to direct 
AWP to refund the cost of the warranty or pay Mr A compensation.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman