DRN-2625026
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt place Mrs Cs money into 
an interest bearing account while her funds were frozen after she passed away.
The estate is represented by Mrs Cs daughter, Ms C.
What happened
In August 2018, Mrs C sadly passed away. A month later, her daughter Ms C transferred 
£150,000 from Mrs Cs savings account with Barclays to Mrs Cs current account, which was 
also with Barclays. She then transferred £50,000 from the current account to her brothers 
account. Ms C says she also tried to transfer £50,000 to her own current account, but this 
didnt go through.
 
In October 2018, Ms C wrote to Barclays to let it know that her mother had passed away. 
She said she hadnt informed Barclays earlier because she had only recently received her 
mothers death certificate. She told Barclays that she was the sole executor of her mothers 
will and was trying to carry out her mothers wishes by transferring money to her brother and 
to herself online. She asked how she could access the remainder of her mothers money to 
distribute it according to her will. 
Barclays sent Ms C details of what was required as part of its bereavement process. The 
funds remained in Mrs Cs current account while the necessary paperwork was provided and 
processed. Barclays transferred the funds to Ms Cs solicitors in April 2020.
Ms C complained to Barclays that interest hadnt accrued on her mothers account while it 
was frozen. Barclays said it wasnt at fault. If the bereavement process had been followed 
and the funds in Mrs Cs savings account had been left untouched, the full amount would 
have continued to accrue interest. This didnt occur because Ms C had transferred the funds 
before Barclays was made aware of Mrs Cs passing.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He thought that 
Barclays should have done what it could to reverse the transactions made in September 
2018, once it became aware they had been performed without the proper authorisation. He 
recommended that Barclays pay Mrs Cs estate interest on £100,000 at the savings account 
rate from October 2018 to April 2020.
Barclays disagreed with our investigators view. It said it wasnt at fault because Ms C had 
switched the funds from Mrs Cs savings account into her current account. She did this 
without consulting Barclays and before informing it of Mrs Cs passing. It had also sent Ms C 
information to make her aware that she could have discussed placing the funds into an 
interest bearing account in November 2018.
As Barclays has disagreed with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the estate of Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays says that if the correct bereavement process had been followed and the funds in 
Mrs Cs savings account had been left untouched, the full amount would have continued to 
accrue interest. A letter it sent to Ms C in November 2018 confirms that the amount in      
Mrs Cs savings account on the date she passed away in August 2018 was just over 
£150,000. This letter also says: Credit and/or debit interest will continue to accrue on the 
account(s) until all formalities have been completed.
I appreciate Barclays wasnt aware that Mrs C had passed away when £150,000 was 
transferred out of her savings account into her current account in September 2018. But its 
acknowledged receiving Ms Cs letter dated October 2018. This made Barclays aware that 
Mrs C had already passed away when the money was transferred, and the transaction had 
been completed by someone who didnt have the authority to do so at the time. At that point, 
it should have been clear to Barclays that the money had been transferred without the 
proper authority. So, I think it should have taken steps to put things back in the position they 
would have been if this hadnt happened. 
I understand £50,000 had already been moved to Ms Cs brothers account. But the other 
£100,000 was sitting in Mrs Cs current account, which was frozen. So, I think it would have 
been fair and reasonable to move it back to Mrs Cs savings account, where it could have 
accrued interest while the necessary paperwork was received and processed. 
Barclays says it isnt responsible because Ms C moved the money before letting it know that 
Mrs C had passed away. It also says it made her aware that she could have asked Barclays 
to move the money from the current account to an interest bearing account. 
The matter seems to have been complicated by the fact that the money was transferred by 
Ms C who is also the executor of Mrs Cs estate. But this complaint is brought by the estate 
of Mrs C. Its not Ms Cs personal complaint. Barclays was aware that an unauthorised 
transfer had taken place when it received Ms Cs letter dated October 2018. If it had moved 
the £100,000 that remained in Mrs Cs current account back to her savings account at that 
time, the estate wouldnt have lost out on the interest that would have accrued. So, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay the estate of Mrs C the interest it lost out 
on.
Putting things right
Barclays should calculate how much interest would have been applied to the £100,000 if it 
had been in Mrs Cs savings account from the date it became aware shed passed away (in 
October 2018) to the date the money was transferred from Mrs Cs current account to Ms 
Cs solicitors (in April 2020) and pay this to the estate of Mrs C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman