DRN-3332387
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a term assurance policy by Zurich Assurance Ltd. In 
summary, he says the adviser led him to believe that he had to take out the policy in order to 
secure the borrowing, but it was sold so the adviser could earn commission. Mr S did not 
want or need the cover provided by the policy. To resolve his complaint, he wants to have 
the premiums he paid refunded with interest.  
What happened
Mr S took out a joint capital repayment mortgage in 2003 with his brother. In addition to the 
mortgage, he was recommended a Mortgage and Family Protector Policy by a financial 
adviser. Zurich takes responsibility for the advice as the adviser was one of its appointed 
representatives. The mortgage was provided by a separate business. 
The term assurance policy comprised decreasing term life assurance, critical illness benefit 
and payment protection benefit if Mr S was off work from illness or injury for more than six 
months. The policy had a £65,000 sum assured matching the initial mortgage lending, the 
same 25-year term and a premium set just under £30 each month.   
Mr S agreed to take out the policy and completed an application on 1 June 2003. The policy 
began in July 2003 but went on risk on 3 August 2003. It was cancelled in July 2008.  
In 2019, he and his brother lodged a complaint with the mortgage lender, in advance of the 
August 2019 deadline for payment protection insurance (PPI) complaints. After a delay, that 
business then directed him to Zurich. 
In September 2020, Mr S complained to Zurich. He referenced a court ruling relating to 
undisclosed commission for PPI cases as he felt this applied to the sale of his policy.
A second complaint was also made by his brother on the same basis, that he had also been 
mis-sold term assurance alongside their joint lending. 
Zurich rejected the complaint in October 2020. It said the policy did not include PPI.
Mr S appealed the decision and explained that his cover had been mis-sold, with Zurichs 
adviser insisting it was taken out to secure their borrowing.   
Zurich issued a further response in November 2020. It said the adviser had not been 
required to produce fact-find documentation as this was not a requirement in 2003. However, 
she had identified a protection need for Mr S and his brother and made an appropriate 
recommendation on that basis. It also said that the policy documentation did not set out that 
it was a condition of the lending or that it would influence approval of their mortgage.    
Mr S said he and his brother still disagreed. He said they were eligible to pursue mis-selling 
claims. They were both in difficult financial positions and believed the premiums they had 
paid previously ought to be returned to them.    
Mr S and his brother therefore lodged their complaints to this service, where each of them 
were considered by one of our investigators. This decision is for Mr Ss complaint about his 
specific policy with the partial reference beginning #13250.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should succeed. He said he hadnt seen any 
evidence to suggest the cover was a compulsory requirement of Mr Ss and his brothers 
mortgage. Although workplace benefits were held by Mr S, he did not think those were 
guaranteed. He was satisfied the recommendation for the policy was suitable and that it 
hadnt been mis-sold. 
Mr S said he disagreed and he and his brother made a number of detailed submissions. I 
have reviewed them in their entirety, though I shant be setting them out in full here. He 
noted in summary that:
he and his brother were aged 23 and 22 respectively, and the cost to them for the 
policy premiums (almost £30 and £35) each month was significant when they had 
limited income;
no care was taken by Zurich to sell each of them more appropriate policies;
they were both at exceptionally low risk of either critical illness or death;
they lived in a geographical area that had a high statistical risk of redundancy;
and, Mr S went on to be made redundant in 2006 but the policy did not cover his loss 
of wages;
both he and his brother are victims of years of mis-selling of financial products;
he does not feel the investigator properly considered the complaint;
the arguments he has made should be given more weight;
the entire file should be reviewed by an ombudsman;
this was their first home purchase and he and his brother agreed to anything in order 
to have the lending approved;
they were intending on selling the property in the future;
the policy proposed seemed more appropriate for a middle-aged customer with a 
family;
the Zurich adviser was local to their area and she should have known about the 
limitations on local job prospects; 
he and his brother held the greatest concern about redundancy, not any other type of 
insurance protection;
their view is that the adviser was incentivised to sell the policy whether it benefitted 
either one of them or not;
they were both single at the time of the advice;
the property purchase was supposed to be an investment for their respective futures;
he believes the sale was unfair and not geared to either of their needs;
the mortgage lender did not require them to take out additional insurance;
they now accept that some cover in the form of life assurance may have been 
appropriate at the time, but neither he nor his brother were permitted to break down 
the policy in that way;
if they had been allowed to make an informed choice they would have sought policies 
offering death and redundancy benefits only;
critical illness insurance was clearly sold to them to protect families that they did not 
have;
they were not given any information about a cooling off period or the right to change 
their minds;
even if it is the case that they were not sold PPI, the type of cover was still capable of 
being mis-sold;Zurich has avoided any liability or responsibility throughout the complaint process, 
which has been unduly stressful and time consuming for them;
in addition to a refund of premiums he and his brother seek additional compensation 
for the trouble and inconvenience they have been placed under by Zurichs actions;
they also feel that the PPI case of Plevin is relevant to the sale of this policy and this 
complaint should be reconsidered on that basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr S and his brother have both brought complaints to Zurich regarding their 
policies and they originally pursued the matter here jointly. It is correct for the two complaints 
to be split as they each held individual policies. To be clear, this complaint concerns just Mr 
Ss policy with the partial reference #13520  there will of course be similarities across the 
wording used in the background and the findings of the complaints as they arise from the 
same circumstances, but each complaint has been considered separately. 
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I realise this wont be the answer Mr S has hoped for. However, I am also of the 
view that this complaint should not succeed. In summary, my findings are:
I can appreciate why Mr S initially took the view that his policy might have been PPI, 
as it was set out as a type of mortgage protection;
however, the policy wasnt PPI;
PPI is a different type of cover, primarily designed to offer protection for the 
repayments to a lending should a policyholder fall ill, be unable to work or face 
defined circumstances where they cannot meet repayments of a specified debt;
this policy was a form of term assurance;
Mr Ss policy offered life assurance and critical illness insurance for the same term 
and amount of the mortgage lending;
the policy also had an additional payment protection benefit equal to 1% of the sum 
assured  that was cover where after a defined period of long-term ill health (more 
than six months) a limited payment could be made of income benefit;
I recognise the name of this add-on benefit sounds similar to PPI and naturally 
caused Mr S and his brother to question the type of policy they had been sold;
however, it was a term assurance policy geared to offer mortgage protection in the 
form of insurance akin to the mortgage lending for the events of death or critical 
illness;
the other payment protection benefit was an add-on option that is sometimes 
included in policies of this type, but it was not PPI;
the arguments Mr S has made in terms of the Plevin Supreme Court case do not 
apply here, that case related to commission payments on a PPI policy;
in any event, the documentation provides confirmed value as to the commission 
payable to the adviser if the policy went ahead;
that commission was paid to the adviser does not automatically mean the proposal 
for a protection policy was unsuitable;
I have no reason to dispute Mr Ss recollection, and I can how he has gone into some 
detail about what happened at the time and thereafter in respect of his redundancy;
but I must weigh up all of the evidence including Zurichs version of events and the 
limited contemporaneous information available;
having done so, I am not able to conclude that the adviser coerced or compelled Mr 
S into taking out the protection policy;I believe it most likely that the recommendation was a proposal for Mr S to consider; 
I say that noting that the mortgage was taken out with a different business and Mr S 
has confirmed that the mortgage lender did not require any protection policy to be 
taken out as a condition of the lending;
but even if this wasnt the case, I do not believe the recommendation made to Mr S 
was unsuitable;
the information obtained at the time confirms Mr S did not have any other benefits 
that replicated life assurance or critical illness cover;  
for the period the policy was in force, Mr S had the benefit of cover that, in the event 
of a valid claim, would have made a lump sum payment equivalent to the combined 
mortgage liability had he passed away or been diagnosed with any of the listed 
serious illnesses in the policy;
Mr S was supplied with key features about the policy, explaining what it comprised;
it did not offer income protection insurance (a monthly income for a certain defined 
period) which would be appropriate cover for possible future redundancy;
income protection cover is not the type of policy sold alongside mortgage lending as 
its set up to protect loss of employment rather than to clear a specified debt;
I recognise Mr S and his brother were young at the time however, that does not 
mean insurance is entirely unsuitable for them;
policies of this type are priced according to insurance risk, of which age is one factor 
 so they are inherently cheaper the younger an applicant is at the start of the term;
and though Mr S is entitled to feel otherwise, having cover for a substantial debt in 
the event of death or suffering from a critical illness is a sensible step to take at any 
age  because there was a large financial liability to protect;
and Mr S has told Zurich and this service that he and his brother had limited means, 
which would support the view that insurance of this type could be a valuable benefit;
however, Ive seen no clear evidence that would lead me to conclude the premium 
was unaffordable for Mr S such that the recommendation wasnt appropriate;
I do not believe Zurichs appointed representative acted unfairly on unreasonably in 
making the recommendation in the event Mr S and his brother were taking on a new 
mortgage debt  with another business or otherwise;
it follows that I dont believe the term assurance to be mis-sold, nor do I agree that 
the premiums should be returned to Mr S for the period the cover was in force.  
My final decision
I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman