DRN-3341585
The complaint
Miss W complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Likely Loans) 
provided lending to her which was unaffordable and irresponsible. She says that she had 
significant debt at the time of the lending. 
What happened
In June 2020 Miss W applied for a loan of £3500 with Likely Loans. The loan was approved 
at an interest rate of 89.9% APR with a total of £6380 being repayable over 24 months at 
£265.87 per month. Miss W stated that loan consolidation was the reason for her application. 
Miss W has struggled to make the repayments on the loan from the beginning.  
In January 2022 Miss W complained to us that Likely Loans had lent to her irresponsibly. 
She said that at the time of the lending decision she had very high level of borrowing, a 
number of missed payments, payment arrangements with creditors, and a less than 
satisfactory credit history.  She says that she was in financial difficulty and had suffered a 
family bereavement which was all impacting her mental health. 
Miss W further complained that she had never spoken to anyone at Likely Loans and felt 
they shouldnt be allowed to provide loans without doing so. 
Likely Loans provided their file to us. They said that Miss W had declared an income of 
£17900pa. on her loan application and told them she was living with her parents so they had 
performed a standard credit assessment on her, which showed that Miss W had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the proposed loan repayments. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. He didnt think that Likely Loans had lent 
to Miss W irresponsibly. 
Miss W doesnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision, which is why it has 
come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
In cases like this, I have to look at what checks the lender carried out when it made the 
decision to approve the lending and consider whether those checks were proportionate and 
in accordance with the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) 5.2. This involves looking at 
what information was available to the lender at the time, and whether based on that 
information, the lender should have been alerted to the need to undertake further checks. 
 
I have considered all of the information provided to me by Likely Loans about how they 
assessed Miss Ws application, and I have also considered what Miss W has told us. 
Miss Ws application to Likely Loans states that she has income of £17900 and was living 
with her parents.  She didnt provide a breakdown of expenditure. 
Likely Loans said that they used the information provided by Miss W, analytics data, and  
data from her credit record to establish whether the lending was affordable. The credit record 
data shows how a customer is managing their accounts, any outstanding balances, debts 
and payment history. 
This information showed that Miss W had net monthly income of £1260.86. Likely Loans 
deducted estimated living expenditure of £655.66 to include rent to parents and a single 
persons expenses and they took account of debt of £6162 which generated repayments of 
£271 per month which they also deducted. After a buffer of £50 this left Miss W with £284.20 
which would have been more than enough to meet her monthly Likely Loans repayment of 
£265.87. 
Likely Loans also noted that the purpose of the loan was stated as debt consolidation, so 
that it would be likely that some of the £271 current debt repayments would be replaced with 
the new loan. 
Likely Loans also checked for any adverse credit information, but Miss Ws record showed 
that she was managing her repayments well, with no defaults, and no County Court 
Judgements. The records showed that it was 52 months since her last payday account was 
opened, which indicated she was not reliant on that sort of borrowing.
 
Having reviewed all of this information, I am satisfied that Likely Loans checks were 
proportionate on this occasion. The information showed that Miss W had sufficient 
disposable income, and although she did have a significant amount of debt at the time of 
application, it was being well managed, and using the new loan to consolidate the existing 
loans would have meant that the level of repayments were not significantly higher.   I dont 
consider there was any reason for Likely Loans to ask for additional information. 
 
In view of the above, I am unable to find that Likely Loans have failed in their obligations to 
assess creditworthiness in accordance with CONC 5.2.1. 
Miss W has also raised an issue about whether a lender should be able to lend without 
speaking to the customer. There isnt any obligation for a lender to speak to a consumer 
before making their decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, Im not upholding Miss Ws  complaint, and Oakbrook Finance 
Limited trading as Likely Loans do not need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman