DRN-3085009
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S is unhappy the Nationwide Building Society provided a credit account, 
and later increased the credit limit on that credit account, to the late Mrs S at times when the 
provision of such credit wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
The late Mrs S held a credit card account with Nationwide. Sadly, in August 2019, Mrs S 
died. Her son acted as executor for her estate, and when reviewing his late mothers 
finances became aware of the Nationwide credit account, which he felt had credit limits and 
balances such that Mrs S had no reasonable possibility  as a retired pensioner with little 
chance of an increase in personal income  to have ever cleared.
The estate of Mrs S felt that this meant that Nationwide had allowed the late Mrs S to 
maintain her account in a state of persistent debt, which they didnt feel was fair. So, the 
estate of Mrs S raised a complaint, which was later referred to this service.
Nationwide looked at the complaint, but they noted that the events being complained about 
had all taken place more than six years ago, and as such they felt that the complaint had 
been raised too late for it to be reasonably considered. But one of our investigators looked at 
this complaint, and they felt that this was a complaint that this service could consider the 
merits of, and so they asked Nationwide to consider the merits of this complaint themselves.
Nationwide looked at the merits of the complaint. They noted that because of the time that 
had elapsed since the events being complained about they no longer retained all the 
information pertaining to those events, but they felt that there was nothing in the information 
that they did have available to them that gave them reasonable cause to consider that either 
the initial provision of credit to the late Mrs S or the later credit limit increases should be 
deemed as being instances of irresponsible lending. So, they didnt uphold the estate of   
Mrs Ss complaint.
The estate of Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, and they confirmed that 
they wanted this service to assess their complaint. One of our investigators looked at the 
merits of this complaint, but they also didnt feel that the information that was available about 
the provisions of credit in question were sufficient such that those provisions of credit could 
fairly and reasonably be considered as being instances of irresponsible lending, and so they 
also didnt uphold the complaint.
The estate of Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events being complained about here are the initial provision of credit by Nationwide to 
the late Mrs S which took place in October 2002, when Mrs Ss credit account application 
was approved with an initial credit limit of £8,640, and also the credit limit increases which 
took place on the account in December 2012, when the credit limit was increased to 
£12,100, and in January 2014, when it was increased to £14,600.
The estate of Mrs S feel that Nationwide didnt fulfil their obligations to undertake 
creditworthiness checks which should in all likelihood, given that Mrs S was a retired 
pensioner at the time of the credit provisions, have resulted in Mrs S not being considered as 
being creditworthy at those times. The estate of Mrs S also feels that the provision of this 
credit to the late Mrs S by Nationwide meant that the late Mrs S unfairly found herself in a 
state of persistent debt, where she was able to make the minimum payments required on the 
account but couldnt afford to make larger payments to reduce the overall balance owed.
I can appreciate the estate of Mrs Ss strength of feeling, however there are some important 
points of consideration that I feel must be confirmed immediately here.
The first is that is that in 2018 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) amended the rules 
about creditworthiness assessments to include that credit providers had to assess whether 
the provision of credit to a consumer was affordable for that consumer. Previous to this 
amendment  as all the events being complained about here are  the requirement was only 
that the credit provider assess whether the consumer was likely to be able to pay the 
monthly payments that may become due on that credit, and didnt include whether it would 
be affordable for a consumer to be able to make such payments.
This amendment of the rules surrounding creditworthiness assessments complimented the 
publication of new rules by the FCA about consumers who were considered as being in a 
state of persistent debt  characterised as being consumers who could only afford to make 
close to the minimum monthly payment required by their credit accounts, but whom couldnt 
afford to make larger payments so as to reduce the overall amount of debt present on those 
accounts.
The estate of Mrs S believes that the late Mrs S was in a state of persistent debt. And I note 
that Nationwide themselves had identified the late Mrs S as being in a state of persistent 
debt following the implementation of the new rules and had issued correspondence to the 
late Mrs S about this before she unfortunately passed away in 2019.
But the persistent debt rules werent in force at the time of either the initial provision of credit 
in 2002 or the late credit limit increases in 2012 and 2014. And the rules arent retrospective, 
meaning that Im unable to consider these rules in the context of this complaint.
The second point I feel that its important to highlight is that credit providers such as 
Nationwide are generally only required to retain personal information about their customers, 
such as creditworthiness assessments, for as long as its necessary to retain that information 
for its lawful purpose. This means that its incumbent on a credit provider to not retain a 
customers creditworthiness assessment beyond a time when its likely that the information 
contained within that creditworthiness assessment will no longer be needed for any 
functional purpose. 
In this instance the provisions of credit being complained about range from 2002 to 2014, 
and as such its difficult to see why Nationwide should have continued to retain the 
information they gathered about the late Mrs S at those times, including any creditworthiness 
assessments, given that it seems likely that the information contained within those 
creditworthiness assessments would no longer fulfil any useful, lawful purpose. 
Indeed, Nationwide have confirmed that they no longer hold information surrounding these provisions of credit, including creditworthiness assessments or details of any conversations 
that they may have had with the late Mrs S at those times. And, given the information 
retention requirements explained above, this service wouldnt expect Nationwide to still 
retain that information. And this makes it difficult for me to consider upholding the estate of 
Mrs Ss complaint here. 
This is because, as an impartial dispute resolution service, its difficult not to conclude that 
Nationwide are effectively prejudiced against by the passing of time here, given that they 
reasonably no longer hold any information or evidence that they might previously have held 
which may have demonstrated why the provisions of credit to Mrs S had been assessed by 
Nationwide as being responsibly provided.
This is of particular relevance to the initial provision of credit in 2002. Nationwide no longer 
hold any records relating to this provision of credit, which took place over two decades ago. 
And this absence of information, as well as the significant passing of time, means that I dont 
feel that I can fairly, reasonably, or impartially conclude that this credit was provided to the 
late Mrs S irresponsibly by Nationwide. 
In regard to the credit limit increase in 2012 and 2014, Nationwide no longer retain the 
creditworthiness assessments pertaining to these increases, although they note that such 
assessments must have taken place in order for the increases to have been offered to the 
late Mrs S. Nationwide also note that the late Mrs S had to actively accept the offered credit 
limit increases before they were implemented to her account, which means that the credit 
limit increases werent applied to the late Mrs Ss account without her explicit consent.
But some information from the time of the credit limit increases does survive, most notably 
statements from the credit account itself and from a current account that the late Mrs S held 
with Nationwide, as well as some general information obtained by Nationwide from credit 
reference agencies about the late Mrs Ss wider financial position.
This information includes that the late Mrs S didnt have any significant adverse reporting on 
her credit file  such as defaults, bankruptcies, or county court judgements  and that shed 
never exceeded the credit limit on her Nationwide credit account or missed a payment on 
that account since the account had been opened  except for one instance of a late 
payment. And, taking this information into consideration, I dont feel that theres anything 
present within this information that ought reasonably to have given Nationwide cause to 
suspect that the late Mrs S might not be able to make the payments that would be required 
on the credit account even after the credit limit increases  in line with the creditworthiness 
assessment requirements that were in place at those times.
So, while I acknowledge that if the late Mrs Ss account were judged by the standards in 
place today that she might be considered as being in persistent debt, those standards arent 
applied retrospectively, and so I dont think itd be fair to say that Nationwide should now act 
in line with what these current persistent debt standards say.
And while it was the case that Mrs S was of pensionable age when the credit was provided 
here, a business wouldnt be expected to refuse lending solely on the basis of someones 
age (which may be considered as an act of discrimination) but would be expected to base 
its lending decision on all the information available to it at that time. 
And while I understand that the estate of Mrs S feels that Nationwide should have 
recognised the late Mrs S as being vulnerable at the times that they provided further credit to 
her, I havent seen anything in the information available to me to suggest that Nationwide 
should have necessarily made this assumption. And, as referred to previously, much of the 
information that Id need to fairly assess this point, including details of any conversations that Nationwide may have held with Mrs S at those times, is unfortunately no longer available.   
All of which means that I dont feel that theres reasonable evidence available to me here for 
me to impartially and fairly say that Nationwide acted unfairly or didnt do what was expected 
in terms of the checks they may have made before deciding to provide the further credit to 
the late Mrs S that they did. Instead, what I have seen shows that the lending was granted a 
long time ago and that Mrs S was able to maintain it over a significant period of time. I 
realise that this goes against what the estate of Mrs S believes, but its what the available 
and limited evidence shows me. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that the estate of Mrs S will want here, but it follows 
from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that the estate of Mrs S will understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman