DRN-4252996
The complaint
Mr P complains about Lloyds Bank PLC stopping his cheque and causing him a financial 
loss. 
What happened
Mr P paid a £20,000 cheque from his Lloyds bank account to Building Society A to open an 
ISA. 
Prior to depositing the cheque, Mr P visited a Lloyds branch to ensure there wouldnt be any 
problems. Mr P says he was informed the cheque would be successfully paid as his balance 
was sufficient and his signature was confirmed. 
However, the cheque was subsequently flagged for a security check and later returned 
unpaid. 
Due to the ISA 6 April 2023 deadline, Mr P had to quickly arrange to use funds from his 
savings account with Building Society A. Mr P explains the rules of this account meant he 
wouldnt be able to reinvest his £20,000 once he withdrew it. So, as this was his only option 
to set up his ISA he would lose out on the 2.45% interest rate the account earned.
Mr P complained to Lloyds. Lloyds said they didnt make an error when they cancelled the 
cheque. They explained they initially flagged the cheque for a security check because of its 
high value and attempted to contact Mr P. But, as they couldnt speak with him to confirm the 
validity of the payment, they returned the cheque.  
Lloyds though did accept their branch staff shouldve made Mr P aware that the cheque 
could be stopped for a security check and wanted to put him back into the same financial 
position by offering to cover loss of interest. This was calculated to be £490, which was 
based on 1 year on £20,000 at 2.45%. They also offered £70 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr P was dissatisfied and complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint as she thought Lloyds offer was fair and reasonable.
As Mr P remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
From reviewing the file, Im satisfied that when Lloyds stopped Mr Ps cheque they acted 
within their terms and conditions and in good faith to protect his account. However, I could 
understand Mr Ps upset, stress and frustration here. 
This is because it was an important transaction with a deadline, the cheque was payable to 
himself, he visited the branch in advance of paying his cheque into an ISA, was led to 
believe the cheque would be paid successfully and cant see that Lloyds called him to 
prevent the cheque being cancelled. 
Also, when he discovered the cheque was cancelled it was necessary for him to make other 
arrangements. And the only solution to secure his ISA was to move his funds from a savings 
account but, as that had a similar investment restriction, he still faced a loss of interest.
Lloyds accept they made an error and said:
We want to ensure Mr P is put back into the same financial position by offering to cover loss 
of interest, even though the cheque wasnt paid due to genuine security check, as Mr P was 
led to believe the cheque would be paid successfully.  
So, whats left for me to decide is whether the following redress offered by Lloyds is fair and 
reasonable to put this right:
 2.45% interest for 1 year on £20,000
 £70 compensation
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards is 
detailed on our website and tends to be modest. 
Lloyds accept that Mr P wouldnt have needed to withdraw £20,000 from his high interest 
savings account with Building Society A had it not been for an error on their part. And 
because of Building Society A account rules, he couldnt reinvest his funds in the same 
account in that year. However, Mr P feels Lloyds interest offer is insufficient because he is 
likely to have had the opportunity of earning a greater amount of interest and, as an 
example, he cites interest rate increases.
I looked at Building Society As interest rates and considered all the available information 
including the arguments Mr P set out in his written and verbal submissions. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded that Lloyds offer isnt fair or reasonable. 
Mr P was in a position where after Lloyds cancelled his cheque, he still had the opportunity 
to invest £20,000 in a savings account that had a competitive interest rate  although he 
feels it would initially been less than 2.45%. So, I think the amount of interest he had the 
opportunity to earn on the £20,000, together with Lloyds £490 payment, wouldve covered 
annual interest rate hikes. In addition, Mr P would have the option of earning interest on the 
£490. However, I appreciate any delay accepting Lloyds offer would shorten this benefit.  
So, as the £490 Lloyds offered would be in addition to the interest Mr P couldve earned on 
£20,000, Im satisfied it takes into account factors such as interest rate increases which I 
recognise have occurred in 2023. 
On first look Lloyds £70 compensation offer does appear low, however I consider it to be 
fair. I say this because Lloyds were entitled to stop the cheque, the offer is for inconvenience 
and the main cause of Mr Ps upset, stress and frustration was his concern about lost 
interest. And, as explained above, Im satisfied that Lloyds have addressed this in a way that 
covers his loss, allows for interest rate increases and time to find an alternative savings 
account.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed, having considered all the above Im not 
upholding this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman