DRN-1843382
The complaint
Mr D applied for a mortgage with Sainsburys Bank Plc and is unhappy with the inspection of 
the property as hes now discovered serious defects post-completion.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys Bank doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of 
a surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a 
requirement that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. Sainsburys Bank isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual 
surveyor or any act (or omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for.
Sainsburys Bank is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant 
consider complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can 
consider against Sainsburys Bank is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of 
surveyors and having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
The valuation report that was carried out was for mortgage purposes only, it wasnt a full 
survey of the property. The report says The property is in acceptable overall condition but 
does require general upgrade, maintenance and repair beyond the scope of a report of this 
nature. So it could readily be inferred from this that there were likely to be issues beyond 
the scope of the basic mortgage valuation report that had been carried out.
The report contains a section entitled Important notice to applicants and that says:
This report is in the format required by Sainsbury's Bank ("the Bank") to assess the 
property for mortgage purposes only. A copy of the report has been provided to you as a 
matter of courtesy for information only and should not be disclosed to any third party. In 
the event of such disclosure, no responsibility will be accepted either by the Bank or the 
valuer to the third party.
The report has been obtained by an independent valuer and has been prepared solely for 
the Bank and the Bank's purposes. It is a report for mortgage purposes, not a building 
survey and should not be regarded as such. You should note the Bank does not warrant 
the purchase price is reasonable. The valuation figure is for mortgage purposes only and 
will not necessarily represent the purchase valuation of the property. You should seriously 
consider whether a more detailed inspection and report should be obtained on your own 
behalf as this report may not mention any defects which a more in depth report/survey 
would reveal.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the RICS residential mortgage 
valuation specifications. No warranty is given or implied by the Bank or the valuer that the 
statements or opinions expressed or implied in the report are accurate or valid or that the 
purchase price is reasonable. The Bank recommends that you obtain your own report to 
satisfy yourself as to the property's condition and value. Otherwise, you will proceed 
entirely at your own risk, as neither the Bank nor the valuer accepts any responsibility to 
you for the content of this report.
Mr D had concerns about the property so contacted Sainsburys Bank on 23 April to ask 
whether damp readings had been taken. Sainsburys Bank raised that as a query with the 
surveyor and said it would call Mr D back. Unfortunately it didnt do so, but rather than follow 
it up Mr D completed on the purchase on 10 May and then complained about the property 
post-completion.
Sainsburys Bank was wrong not to call Mr D back when it said it would, but I cant hold it 
liable for Mr Ds decision to complete the purchase without getting an answer from the 
surveyor. I also cant hold it liable for Mr D not getting a more detailed report/survey despite 
the mortgage valuation report saying there were repairs needed beyond the scope of the 
report and Mr D himself noticing a potential damp problem with the property.
The valuation report Sainsburys Bank received didnt highlight any issues with the property 
such that it wouldnt have been considered as suitable security for the mortgage. It follows 
that Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank granted the mortgage in good faith.
Sainsburys Bank has paid Mr D £150 compensation for not calling him back when it said it 
would and having considered everything Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable offer. I 
simply cant hold Sainsburys Bank liable for anything else as the valuation report wasnt its 
responsibility and Mr D should have contacted Sainsburys Bank before he exchanged 
contracts and completed on the property purchase when he hadnt heard anything back.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider the compensation paid by 
Sainsburys Bank Plc in its response to the complaint is fair and reasonable. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before 7 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman