DRN-3315577
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about their secured loan account held with Swift 1st Limited. 
They are unhappy with Swifts handling of their account, and say that delays by Swift in 
agreeing a short settlement meant their equity release mortgage didnt go ahead. To settle 
the complaint Mr and Mrs E want Swift to write off at least 50% of the loan balance.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Both Swift in its final response letter dated 11 June 2021 and our investigator in her letter 
dated 21 January 2022 set out the timeline of events, so I wont repeat them here. Our 
decisions are published, and its important not to include any information that might lead to 
Mr and Mrs E being identified.
Briefly, in 2008 Mr and Mrs E took out a second charge secured loan with Swift, borrowing a 
total (including fees) of £21,350 over a period of 25 years. The loan has consistently been in 
arrears since 2008. 
In 2009 a possession order was granted by the court, suspended on payment of the current 
instalment plus £100 per month. However, payment hasnt been made in accordance with 
the court order and the arrears have increased. No payment has been made to the account 
for almost three years.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs E queried how the loan balance had increased. In a final response letter 
dated 7 April 2015, Swift clarified how this had happened.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs E had been able to arrange an equity release mortgage, and had a 
mortgage offer. This would have cleared their main mortgage (with another lender) in full, but 
wouldnt have been enough to pay off the Swift loan in full, as the balance was by then about 
£60,000. They started negotiating with Swift to see if it would agree a short settlement. 
Also in 2019 Swift was granted permission by the court to apply for a warrant of eviction. It 
put matters on hold while they were considering Mr and Mrs Es offers of settlement. Various 
offers were made, and each time Swift asked for evidence of the source of funds, but this 
information wasnt forthcoming and instead at one point Mr and Mrs Es solicitors, rather 
than providing the requested evidence, made a Data Subject Access Request to Swift. The 
timeline is set out in the investigators letter, but I can see there were several offers made 
between May 2019 and December 2019. 
It wasnt until August 2019 that Mr and Mrs E revealed the source of the funds would be their 
new equity release mortgage. This meant that Mr and Mrs E would have no monthly 
mortgage payments and so would have disposable income available to pay off part of the 
loan balance on an unsecured basis.
In December 2019 Swift agreed to accept £29,000 in a lump sum, plus £13,000 to be paid 
off at £250 per week, the first payment being made on 1 January 2020.
Payment wasnt made, however, and Swift chased Mr and Mrs Es solicitors. The solicitors 
didnt respond until April 2020, when it was explained that a restriction had been registered 
against the property title, which needed to be removed. Mr and Mrs Es solicitors also said 
that delays were down to the equity release lender.
Swift was still prepared to wait for the equity release mortgage to complete and was told this 
would be completed on 29 May 2020. There was no further contact until February 2021 
when the solicitors told Swift they were no longer acting for Mr and Mrs E.
No payment has been made and Swift decided to begin legal action. Before doing so, Swift 
wanted to find out from Mr and Mrs E what was happening and to have a little more insight 
into their current circumstances. As thered been no contact from Mr and Mrs E for some 
time, in June 2021 Swift wrote to Mr and Mrs E explaining that it would instruct a field agent.
This prompted a complaint from Mr and Mrs E, who were unhappy about Swift saying it 
would instruct a field agent. Mr and Mrs E also questioned the loan balance, and said they 
held Swift responsible for the equity release mortgage not going ahead.
Swift didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. At 
this point Swift didnt consent to us looking at anything that had been covered in the final 
response letter dated 7 April 2015, which was Swifts response to Mr and Mrs Es query 
about how their account balance had increased.
Our investigator was satisfied this part of the complaint was out of time. She didnt uphold 
any other part of the complaint, being satisfied that Swift wasnt responsible for the equity 
release mortgage not going ahead.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 14 February 2022 I issued a decision in which I explained that Mr and Mrs Es complaint 
about the account balance up to the final response letter dated 7 April 2015 was out of time.
Ive looked at the account statements from that date onwards. The balance has increased 
due to missed payments, arrears management fees, legal fees and interest. Im satisfied that fees and interest have been added fairly, and I can see that there has been a considerable 
amount of account management carried out by Swift as a result of having to deal with 
missed payments, legal proceedings and payment proposals that have not been adhered to.
Given this, Im satisfied that the account balance after 7 April 2015 has increased because of 
the way the account has been conducted by Mr and Mrs E, and in accordance with Swifts 
management of it. Ive seen nothing in the account history to persuade me that Swift is 
claiming capital, fees and interest to which it is not entitled, in line with the contract terms 
and its tariff of charges.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Swift to decide to instruct a field agent to visit Mr and 
Mrs E in June 2021. I can see from the telephone notes that Mr and Mrs Es financial 
position appeared to be stretched, and in addition their employment status wasnt entirely 
clear. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Swift to request a field agent to visit 
Mr and Mrs E to find out more about their situation. The visit didnt take place, and Mr and 
Mrs E are entitled to decline a field visit. But I dont think Swift did anything wrong so Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
With regard to the short settlement, Ive looked at the timeline of events, and the 
correspondence between Swift and Mr and Mrs Es solicitors. As I said above, I will not set 
out all the details of what happened.
After reviewing the history of the matter from early 2019 onwards, when Mr and Mrs E first 
approached Swift about a short settlement, Im not persuaded there has been any undue 
delay by Swift in its responses to Mr and Mrs Es solicitors. If the equity release mortgage 
did not complete as anticipated, this was not as a result of anything Swift did, or didnt do.
So although I am sure it was probably disappointing for Mr and Mrs E that the equity release 
mortgage didnt go ahead, Im satisfied this wasnt Swifts fault. Im not upholding this part of 
the complaint.
Other matters
Swift has a possession order granted in 2009 and prior to the complaint coming to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Swift was about to ask the court to issue a warrant of 
eviction. Swift agreed to put this action on hold while we looked at the complaint. Taking 
possession of the property is a last resort, but its not unreasonable for Swift to expect the 
loan to be repaid.
I note in the past that each time Swift has said it will issue a warrant, from about 2010 
onwards, Mr and Mrs E have made promises to pay which have not been adhered to. I think 
Swift has shown considerable forbearance, but given the number of broken arrangements 
over the years and the amount outstanding (over £60,000), Swift is under no obligation to 
continue to allow the arrears to increase.
Given this, I think its only right to explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court 
and we dont have the power to interfere in legal proceedings. On this occasion, Swift 
agreed to put matters on hold while we were looking at this complaint.  I must make it clear, 
however, that we cant order Swift to do so. The correct process for stopping Swift from 
taking possession of the property is by making an application to the court to suspend a warrant of eviction. I note Mr and Mrs E have done this in the past, in August 2018 in relation 
to Swift, and in March 2019 in relation to possession action taken by the lender on their first 
mortgage. So Mr and Mrs E are familiar with the process they need to follow in these 
circumstances.
So I would be remiss if I did not make it explicitly clear to Mr and Mrs E that if Swift decides 
to proceed with legal action and Mr and Mrs E bring another complaint to us in the hope that 
we will ask Swift to put matters on hold, we are unlikely to be able to interfere with the legal 
proceedings. I wouldnt want Mr and Mrs E to be under any misunderstanding that we are an 
alternative avenue to suspending possession or that we are able to bypass Swifts legal right 
to take possession without Mr and Mrs E having to go to court.
I hope that things wont reach that point and that Mr and Mrs E are able to resolve their 
difficulties with Swift. I can see from the evidence that Mr and Mrs E have had a hard time 
since 2008, but I cannot emphasise enough the seriousness of the position they are now in. 
If they have not already done so, Mr and Mrs E might find it helpful to take advice from one 
of the free debt advisory agencies such as StepChange, Shelter or Citizens Advice. We can 
provide Mr and Mrs E with contact details for those agencies, if theyd like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman