DRN-2612816
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are concerned about the amount of compensation National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) has offered to settle their complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a loan with NatWest in August 2004 and at the same time took out a 
PPI policy. The PPI was cancelled in December 2004. In April 2005 Mr and Mrs D took out 
another loan to refinance the first loan. No PPI was taken out with the second loan. 
When Mr and Mrs D complained they had been mis-sold PPI NatWest agreed to uphold their 
complaint. It offered a total of £547.11 after tax in compensation to settle the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D were not happy with the amount of compensation as they felt it should have 
been more, especially the compensatory interest amount.
Our adjudicator said the compensation NatWest had offered was fair. Mr and Mrs D 
remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Therefore, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking 
at what is fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
Mrs and Mrs D took out a PPI policy at the same time as a loan in August 2004. The 
premium for the policy was added to the loan so interest was charged on the premium 
amount. The policy was cancelled in December 2004, so it only ran for four months. At this 
point a rebate for the PPI premium and the interest it had caused, was set against the 
remaining balance of the loan.
But not all the costs of the PPI that had remained in the loan were actually included in the 
rebate. A small amount of PPI costs remained in the loan. When the first loan was 
refinanced, the amount remaining in it for the PPI costs was paid by the new loan. 
When PP is mis-sold the compensation must put the consumers, as far as possible, in the 
position they would have been in if they had never taken out the PPI. In this case NatWest 
have worked out that Mr and Mrs D actually paid £138.38 for the PPI premiums whilst the 
policy was active. This amount was paid as part of the monthly repayments for the first loan.
But as Ive indicated, not all the costs of the PPI were removed from the loan when the PPI 
was cancelled, so some additional cost remained in the loan and some of the repayments 
paid for this PPI cost until the first loan was refinanced. When the second loan was taken out 
some of the PPI costs from the policy were paid for by that second loan and some interest 
was paid on the amount of PPI carried into the second loan.
NatWest have taken all these factors into account when working out the total costs paid by 
Mr and Mrs D. In addition to the costs for the PPI paid in the first loan repayments it has 
worked out that the PPI carried into the second loan, and the interest caused, came to 
£145.17. So, this amount plus the amount repaid with the first loan (£138.38) comes to 
£283.55, which is the total of what Mr and Mrs D actually paid for the PPI when repaying 
both loans. 
NatWest has also worked out some compensatory interest on the amounts Mr and Mrs D 
were out of pocket for the costs of the PPI and this in total came to £329.45 before tax. This 
was the amount of compensatory interest calculated to the dare of the offer in September 
2019. Once tax was deducted, as required by HM Revenue and Customs, the net amount of 
compensatory interest was £263.56. When this is added to the actual costs of the PPI Mr 
and Mrs D paid, of £283.55, it gives the total compensation amount of £547.11, which is 
what NatWest offered.
I have looked at what NatWest has calculated, and it is in line with what I would expect. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs D feel the compensatory interest should be more, this has been 
calculated in line with requirements based on 8% simple interest per year. And having 
looked at NatWests calculations I think the amount identified as compensatory interest is 
correct and fair.
NatWest made the payment of compensation to Mr and Mrs D in January 2021. At this point 
it updated the 8% calculation so at this time, in total, Mr and Mrs D were paid £571.58. 
Updating the compensatory interest is what I would expect.
I cannot see NatWest has done anything wrong in the way it has worked out the 
compensation due and paid to Mr and Mrs D. It is in line with all requirements and guidance 
and I think it is fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I think the compensation National Westminster Bank 
Plc has calculated and paid to Mr and Mrs D for the mis-sold PPI is fair and I am not 
upholding this complaint that any more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman