DRN-3479839
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc approved her for a loan. 
This complaint is brought to this service on Miss Ds behalf by her appointed representative.
What happened
Miss Ds representative became aware that HSBC had approved Miss D for a loan. Miss Ds 
representative didnt feel that HSBC should have approved the loan because Miss D has 
leaning difficulties, which Miss Ds representative felt HSBC should have reasonably been 
aware of while conducting Miss D through the loan application. Miss Ds representative also 
believed that Miss D had been coerced into applying for the loan by a third-party, who had 
used the proceeds of the loan themselves. So, Miss Ds representative raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at the complaint. They confirmed theyd undertaken checks at the time of the 
loan application and felt that thered been nothing resulting from those checks which should 
have given them cause to suspect that Miss D couldnt afford the loan or understand the 
nature of the loan such that it shouldnt have been provided to her.
Miss Ds representative wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also 
didnt feel that HSBC had acted unfairly in providing the loan to Miss D, and so they also 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss Ds representative didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our 
investigator, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ds representative has explained to this service that Miss D was coerced into taking 
this loan by a third-party who used a significant portion of the loan funds for their own gain.
I can therefore appreciate how this would be a highly emotive matter for Miss D and her 
representative. However, I feel that I must begin by clarifying the scope of what this service 
can consider regarding this complaint.
Importantly, this is a complaint against HSBC. Therefore, the scope of this complaint is 
limited to HSBCs rationale and actions in providing the loan to Miss D. And it must be noted 
that when assessing whether Miss Ds loan application should or shouldnt be approved, 
HSBCs assessment was focused purely on Miss D herself, and didnt take the third-party to 
whom Miss Ds representative refers into account.
I dont doubt Miss Ds representatives account of what the third party did here, but I do note 
that shes expressed strong feelings in response to our investigators view of this complaint 
including that the actions of the third party werent taken into account by our investigator. 
I therefore feel its important to confirm that I will be taking the actions of the third party into 
account here, in so much as whether I feel HSBC should reasonably have recognised that 
Miss D was being coerced. However, I must acknowledge that such coercion is a difficult 
thing to impartially and objectively assess, given my considerable distance from the events 
under consideration.
Ill also be considering here whether I feel that Miss D demonstrated that she had the 
capacity to enter into a personal loan contract with HSBC. This involves an assessment not 
only of whether I feel Miss D did or didnt have an understanding of the loan that she was 
applying for, but also whether it was reasonable for HSBC to have believed that Miss D 
could understand the nature of the loan she was applying for.
Considering the affordability aspect first, when Miss D applied for the loan, she told HSBC 
she was living with parents and had a net monthly income of approximately £1,100. HSBC 
considered Miss Ds monthly outgoings and expenses at that time, including that Miss D had 
a HSBC credit card account to which she making monthly payments, and assessed Miss D 
as having disposable income remaining after outgoings and expenses of £594 per month. 
The loan that Miss D applied for, which was for £11,000 over a five-year term, had monthly 
repayments of £266. This meant that if Miss D was approved for the loan, her disposable 
income after taking the monthly loan repayments into consideration would still be in the 
region of £328 per month. Given this relatively large amount of remaining disposable 
income, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to have considered that Miss D could, 
in all likelihood, afford the £11,000 loan that she applied for.
HSBC also believe there was nothing resulting from the application process and assessment 
that should have given them any reasonable cause to believe that Miss D couldnt 
understand the nature of the loan she was applying for. 
I feel that it must be noted at this point that this service hasnt received any form of evidence 
from Miss D or her representative which confirms the nature of Miss Ds learning difficulties. 
Indeed, Miss Ds representative has explained that Miss D has never been formally 
diagnosed. As such, its very difficult for me, in the absence of this confirming evidence, and 
given the impartial nature of this service and my distance from the events under 
consideration, to be able to fairly or reasonably state that Miss D most likely didnt 
understand the nature of the loan contract that she was entering into.
Furthermore, even accepting that I may be wrong about this point, and that Miss D may not 
have understood the nature of the loan that she was applying for, Im not convinced from the 
information and evidence available to me that this should or would have been readily 
apparent to HSBCs staff who conducted the loan application with Miss D.
One of the reasons I say this is because HSBC have explained that neither the staff member 
who administered the application process in branch, or another staff member from a different 
branch with whom Miss D made a similar application a few months previously, noted 
anything about how Miss D presented herself personally which indicated that Miss D couldnt 
understand the loan. 
HSBC also note that they hadnt been informed that Miss D had learning difficulties at any 
point before the application was made, and that Miss D had existing credit commitments 
including a HSBC credit card account which Miss D had maintained without significant 
incident and which HSBC contend supports their position that it appeared that Miss D would 
in all likelihood be able to understand the nature of the loan she was applying for.
Conversely, Miss Ds representative feels that Miss Ds learning difficulties are such that HSBCs staff members, when liaising with Miss D directly, couldnt in all reasonableness fail 
to recognise and understand that Miss D has those learning difficulties, or that Miss D might 
not understand the nature of personal loans. Miss Ds representative has provided 
information and testimonies to that effect from several people whom Miss D has close 
contact with, including a support worker with whom Miss D works, as well as herself.
Miss Ds representative has also questioned whether the HSBC staff member that 
conducted the application completed the application process as they should have done, 
including whether they paid sufficient attention to Miss D to notice her learning difficulties, or 
whether the staff member followed the correct process having noticed Miss Ds learning 
difficulties. 
In circumstances such as this, where the testimonies of the complainant and the respondent 
business differ significantly, I have to make a decision about what I feel is most likely to have 
happened, on balance, and in consideration of all the information and evidence available to 
me  if its reasonably possible to make such a decision.
To that effect, I havent seen anything within the information available to me to suggest that 
the correct loan application process wasnt followed by the HSBC staff member that 
conducted that application with Miss D. Im aware that Miss Ds representative feels that its 
conjecture on the part of this service to assume that the correct process was followed. 
However, it must be noted that Miss Ds representative wasnt present at the loan application 
herself, and so I feel that any assumptions that she may make about whether the correct 
process was followed or not are equally conjectural.
I also feel that it is more likely than not, on balance, that Miss D was able to complete the 
application process without indicating to HSBC that she couldnt understand the nature of 
the loan she was applying for such that her application shouldnt have been approved. 
There are several reasons for this, including that Miss D already held credit products which 
she was managing without incident. But I also note that that Miss D had applied for a similar 
loan in another branch a few months earlier (an application which was approved but where 
Miss D then declined the loan terms offered to her) and another loan at a third branch about 
18 months later, and that during none of these applications was it believed by any of the 
different staff that conducted those separate applications that Miss D might not be able to 
understand the nature of the loans shed applied for.
It also must be noted that had HSBC recognised that Miss D had learning difficulties, this 
may not have precluded Miss D being approved for the loan. This is because it would be 
unfair for HSBC to discriminate against individuals with learning difficulties as long as they 
have the capacity to enter into formal arrangements.
Instead, if it were felt that Miss D could understand the nature of the loan, then I feel that it 
would have been reasonable for HSBC to have approved her application for it, subject to it 
being affordable for her. And given that the loan appeared affordable for Miss D, and that 
Miss D already held credit accounts that she maintained without incident and appears not to 
have given any clear declaration or indication to HSBC that she couldnt understand the 
nature of the loan, then I can appreciate why HSBC would have felt that there wasnt any 
reason why Miss Ds loan application shouldnt be approved.
Unfortunately, as Miss Ds representative has alluded to in her correspondence with this 
service, the possibility also exists that the third party who the representative explained 
coerced Miss D into taking the loan was also able to coach Miss D so that her inability to 
understand the loan wasnt apparent to HSBC. But if this were the case, while reprehensible 
on the part of the third party, it wouldnt be something I would consider holding HSBC accountable for. And this was because under such circumstances, HSBC would still be 
offering the loan to Miss D having followed a fair assessment process and in good faith.
Ive also considered more broadly whether HSBC should reasonably have recognised that 
Miss D might have been coerced by the third-party. But unfortunately, there are no detailed 
records from the application, and so its unclear what influence the third-party had, or indeed 
any formal confirmation that the third-party was present during the application process at all. 
Theres also no direct testimony from Miss D herself as to what happened, and while I 
appreciate that Miss Ds representative has provided an account of events, respectfully, she 
also wasnt personally present when the loan was applied for. 
Additionally, this service has asked Miss Ds representative to provide evidence of coercion 
by the third-party, as well as for evidence of the results of another complaint about the third-
party that Miss Ds representative has referred to in her correspondence with this service. 
But this requested evidence hasnt been provided.
In consideration of all the above, I dont feel that it can be demonstrated or evidenced that 
Miss D was coerced by the third-party, or that HSBC should reasonably have been aware 
that Miss D was being coerced, if it were the case that she were. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Miss D or her representative was wanting, but taking 
everything I have detailed and explained here into account, I find it very difficult to conclude 
that HSBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D by approving the loan 
application as they did. 
This is because, ultimately, as explained, I feel its more likely than not that Miss D was able 
to complete the loan application without providing any reasonable indication to HSBC that 
she might not be able to understand the nature of the loan she was applying for, and also 
because I dont feel that theres enough evidence to fairly say that HSBC should have been 
aware that Miss D might have been coerced into applying for the loan.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any 
further action. I hope that Miss D and her representative will understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman