DRN-3817777
The complaint
Ms P complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as NFU Mutual (NFU) caused delays to a claim she made under her car insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2022, Ms Ps car sustained some damage, and so she contacted NFU on 29 June 
2022 to make a claim for the repairs.
Ms P requested that she use her own repairer to complete the work  instead of NFUs 
approved repairer. 
Ms P complains about the delays in the repair work being carried out. She says NFU didnt 
tell her that her claim would be delayed if she used her own repairer  and theres nothing in 
the policy documents to notify her of this. Ms P says NFU didnt tell the repairer that she had 
an excess to pay which caused further delays to the claim. 
NFU responded to Ms Ps complaint but it didnt uphold it. It provided Ms P with a timeline of 
what had happened during the claim and said that it didnt think the delays had been down to 
anything it had done wrong. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, Ms P referred her complaint to this service. She told us she 
has been very stressed by the unhelpful nature of NFU. To put things right, Ms P would like 
NFU to apologise and to rectify its policy documents. Ms P also noted that NFU didnt 
comment on the point she made about the mistakes in the invoice to the repairer.
Our Investigator looked into things for Ms P, but they didnt uphold the complaint. Having 
reviewed the evidence available, the Investigator didnt find that NFU had caused delays to 
the claim being completed. 
Ms P responded to the Investigator to ask for an Ombudsmans decision. She said that NFU 
didnt make it clear that by her using her own repairer would result in delays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Ms Ps complaint. 
Given that Ms P chose to use her own repairer, I cant find NFU responsible for any delays 
that occurred as a result of her repairers actions. NFU wouldnt have any control over the 
actions of that repairer as theyre a completely separate and unconnected entity  so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold NFU responsible for anything the repairer might have done 
wrong.
Both parties are aware of the timeline of events  so I wont go over it in detail here. But 
having reviewed the claim timeline myself, alongside NFUs internal contact notes, I havent 
found that NFU has caused unnecessary delays to this claim. On the contrary, I can see that 
NFU chased the repairer when it didnt receive the information it was expecting in order to 
validate the claim.
I appreciate Ms P is unhappy that NFU didnt tell her that by using her own repairer could 
cause delays to the claim. But every repairer is different, it is up to that repairer how long it 
takes to correspond and submit information to NFU to progress matters. So, I wouldnt have 
expected NFU to have told Ms P that using her own repairer could cause delays  because it 
might not have, and it generally doesnt.
In relation to Ms Ps comments about the excess not being deducted from the invoice, this 
isnt something NFU has done. The repairer invoices NFU for the work completed, and so 
its up to the repairer to ensure the invoice is for the correct amount. The first invoice that 
was sent to NFU didnt include the deduction of excess that was payable by Ms P. But this 
was rectified the following day and an amended invoice raised. So, I dont find that any 
unnecessary delays have been caused because of the excess not initially being deducted 
from the invoice, and I think NFU were quick to communicate with the repairer to put things 
right.
I have seen Ms P has made comment that she wasnt aware that shed need to pay the 
repairer the excess. But I can see that she was told that she would be required to pay an 
excess  and this is generally payable to the repairer. Again, I havent seen that Ms P not 
being aware of this process has caused delays. And I dont find that NFU has done anything 
wrong here by not specifically telling her the excess would need to be paid to the repairer.
I know Ms P will be disappointed by this decision, as I know she feels NFU have provided 
her with a poor service. But for the reasons Ive explained, I havent found that it has done 
anything wrong in relation to this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman