DRN-3320860
The complaint
Mr W complains about GE Money Home Lending Limiteds (GE Money) refusal of his 
request for a refund and compensation.
What happened
Mr W is represented in his complaint. But for ease of reading I will refer only to Mr W in this 
complaint. I do this even if it was his representative who sent us submissions on his behalf 
rather than Mr W directly.
In November 2008 Mr W entered into an agreement with a supplier I will call A. Under the 
agreement A was to supply Mr W with a roof coating product. The roof coating product 
contract was paid for, in part or in total, using a finance agreement provided by GE Money.
Mr W complains that A negligently misrepresented the roof coating product to him. Further, 
he complains that A breached its contract with him. Mr W suggests that because of what he 
characterises as negligent misrepresentations and or the breaches of contract and because 
of the type of finance he used he can look to GE Money to put things right. Specifically, he 
relies on the rights he suggests he has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75).
In February 2019 Mr W brought his claim under Section 75 to GE Money. In response in 
September 2019 GE Money declined to meet his claim. In brief, it suggested that Mr W had 
run out of time to take action against it. This was because, according to it, potentially Mr W 
only has a like claim against it, as against A. Since it considers that any claim against A is 
time-barred so is any like claim against it. Moreover, it did not agree that negligent 
misrepresentations had been made.
Dissatisfied with GE Moneys response Mr W came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. She did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld.
GE Money appeared to accept our investigators recommendation. But Mr W rejected our 
the recommendation.
In summary, Mr W did not accept that any cause of action he might have was time-barred. In 
addition to the arguments he had raised before he suggested in any event we had applied 
the wrong start point when looking at this point. He suggested the relevant deadline is 
extended in the case where there has been fraudulent misrepresentation. According to Mr 
W there has been fraudulent misrepresentation. Moreover, he was completely unaware of 
any issues with the roof coating product until September 2018
Mr W asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I have already mentioned Mr W is relying on the rights he suggests he has under Section 
75. I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint, Ive taken 
Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mr W pursued a claim for negligent misrepresentation 
and or breach of contract. This service is not a court but an alternative to the courts.
Mr Ws complaint is that GE Money hasnt properly exercised its duties under the finance 
agreement it had with him. Specifically, he refers to its duties under section 75. That says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
GE Moneys stance is that any claim Mr W had against A is now time barred due to the 
Limitation Act 1980. Specifically, it relies on those provisions that say a cause of action, of 
the types complained about here, shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from 
the date on which the cause of action accrued. These provisions have already been dealt 
with in great detail earlier in this complaint. It does not seem that the parties dispute the 
application or meaning of the provisions so there is no need to go into such detail again 
here. 
In brief, I find, that the date on which the cause of action accrued is the date on which the 
contract was entered into and the work commenced and any loss on the part of Mr W was 
made  as far as I am aware this is November 2008. It follows Mr W had six years from 
November 2008 to bring a claim. Mr W did not bring any claim until outside the six year 
deadline. That is, they brought their claim in February 2019. Only a court can make a finding 
about whether the cause of action is time-barred. But in the circumstances, given the 
provisions of the relevant law and the circumstances of this complaint I dont find that GE 
Money acted unfairly in taking this relevant law into account in this complaint..
Mr W suggests that there is evidence of fraudulent misrepresentation and this too impacts 
on his rights to bring a claim. But up until now Mr W has relied on negligent 
misrepresentation. He is now raising a new argument. This new argument was not raised 
with GE Money in the complaint nor dealt with by GE Money before now, it follows I have no 
power to look at this new argument in this decision.
Mr W suggests he did know anything was amiss until September 2018 as the relevant date. 
This is important as when he had the knowledge required to bring a claim for damages and 
knowledge of the right to bring such a claim can impact on how the limitation period is 
reckoned. However, to support his complaint Mr W has talked about the specific nature of 
the representations, according to him this included that the roof treatment would eliminate 
moss algae and lichen growth, and or protect against it. Plus, he tells us either the treatment did not work at all or was not applied under the conditions required for the product to work 
correctly. I have seen photos of the house and the roof taken in September 2018.  It shows 
well established moss and lichen. The roof can be seen from the ground. In the 
circumstances, it seems unlikely that Mr W would not have noticed before September 2018 
that the moss and lichen was not eliminated. Moreover, If Mr W did not have lichen or moss 
on his roof in 2008 why did they want the roof treatment? 
Alternatively, if the lichen and moss was indeed removed in 2008, then it seems unlikely that 
Mr W did not find out it had grown back before September 2018. I say this especially 
because the growth of the moss and lichen seems to have been easily discoverable by them 
and being very extensive and can be seen from the ground. It is correct to say I cant say for 
sure when the well-established moss and lichen may have re-appeared, if that is what 
happened. But I dont need to do so. It is for Mr W to demonstrate that the lichen and the 
moss was not there before then and he have not done so. It follows that for all of these 
individual reasons I am not persuaded by what Mr W said about this complaint point.
In the circumstances, and for the reasons given, I find I have no proper basis for saying that 
it is fair and reasonable that GE Money be required by this service to take any further action
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman