DRN-1891523
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt make him aware of the 
fees they were charging him over a number years for the use of his debit cards abroad.
What happened
Mr C has two Select current accounts with NatWest. He says that a few years ago he visited 
a branch of NatWest to enquire whether he could use his debit cards on these accounts 
abroad in a eurozone country and whether he would incur any fees. He says he was told that 
he could use the cards and without charge.
Mr C says that, while abroad, he regularly checked his bank accounts using a mobile app, 
which showed his purchases but did not indicate any charges. This app was updated in 
October 2019 at which point it did begin to indicate the currency exchange rate and the 
foreign use transaction fee applied.
Mr C became alarmed that such fees had been applied over a number of years by NatWest 
without his knowledge. He started using a credit card which didnt incur such charges and 
opened a local bank account in the country. He complained to NatWest, seeking a refund of 
all the foreign transaction fees applied to his two current accounts over the period.
NatWest looked into the complaint but didn't agree. It said the account terms and conditions 
set out clearly the charges which would apply for use of the debit card abroad. It also said 
that these charges had been clearly specified for each transaction on the account 
statements which had been provided to Mr C.
Mr C didn't feel this was fair, so he brought his complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is quite apparent that Mr C was unaware that foreign use charges were being incurred as 
he used his debit cards abroad. This is shown by how he switched to using his credit card 
and opened a local bank account very shortly after the upgrade to the app which brought the 
charges to his attention.
However, the question for me is whether NatWest did anything wrong  in particular, 
whether it should have done more to make Mr C aware of the charges.
Unfortunately, there is no record of the conversation which took place in the branch when 
Mr C says he was informed that he could use his debit cards in the eurozone country without 
charge.
It has also not been possible for me to review the information which would have been 
available to Mr C through the older version of the app, though I dont doubt that the charge 
was not clearly apparent, given that Mr C began to recognise it immediately following the 
upgrade in October 2019. 
However, the app was only one way in which NatWest presented account information to 
Mr C. In addition, it provided him with regular statements and, when he opened his accounts, 
it would have provided him with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions are very clear, stating prominently the charges which would apply 
for foreign use of the debit card.
Moreover, these charges were also clearly specified for each individual transaction on the 
statements sent by NatWest to Mr C. I have seen many of these statements and confirmed 
the accuracy of both the postal address and the email address used by NatWest.
I have sympathy for Mr C as the cumulative effect of the charges is significant. And Im sure 
that, if Mr C had been aware of the charges earlier, he would have found other ways to make 
his purchases. However, given that the charges were clearly set out in the terms and 
conditions and, more importantly, were clearly specified on each statement sent to Mr C over 
a number of years, I dont believe the bank can be said to have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
It follows that my decision is that NatWest did not act unfairly in how it provided Mr C with 
information about the foreign use charges on his bank accounts, and therefore no action is 
required. 
I note that, in response to the view given by our investigator, Mr C did not agree with the 
calculations the investigator had made. However, for the reasons set out above, I havent 
commented on these calculations as they do not make a difference to my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman