DRN-3530530
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his motor insurer Acromas Insurance Company Limited because 
his policy was cancelled, he had to find new cover which was more expensive, and he also 
continued to pay for the old, cancelled policy.
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident with a police car. The police accepted liability for the 
incident and Mr L notified Acromas. He was initially unsure whether the police would repair 
his car or if hed have to progress a claim with Acromas. Acromas said it thought his car 
should be written-off, but the police agreed to complete repairs. So he told Acromas not to 
progress his claim. In January 2021 it agreed to mark its file as notification only. But it had 
already told the broker the car was a total loss. So the broker cancelled the policy. When 
Mr L found out he asked for it be reinstated but was told this couldnt be done. In need of 
insurance he arranged alternative cover. 
Mr L complained and has said he was told that he had to keep paying for his cancelled cover 
in the meantime. In a final response dated 11 October 2021 Acromas said that following a 
call with Mr L in December 2020, it hadnt been made clear to it that he had not wanted to 
claim. So it didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator felt Acromas had known this was a notification only but had failed to update 
the broker in that respect. He said Acromas should refund to Mr L any duplicated premium 
payment and pay him £250 compensation. When Acromas suggested that the broker had 
been responsible for cancelling the policy, our investigator explained that the broker had 
been acting on behalf of Acromas when carrying out that activity. So he was satisfied that 
Acromas was responsible for the consequences Mr L suffered. 
The complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration. I also felt it should be upheld 
 and for largely the same reasons. But my view on fair and reasonable redress was 
different. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Acromas file shows that it accepted on 7 January that this incident was not to be dealt with 
as a claim by it. It acted swiftly to remove the total loss marker from the industry records and 
to change the claim records to show a notification only had occurred. But the problem for 
Acromas is that when it did this it had already told the broker that the car was being treated 
as a total loss  and when it changed the other records it did not update the broker. So the 
broker, whether it was acting for Acromas or on its own account at that time, then acted on 
information which, by that point, was out of date. I wouldnt expect a broker to feel as though 
it has to second guess or check up on what appeared to be a normal and clear claim update 
from the insurer. Acromas failed to update the broker following it revising the total loss 
outcome, and the direct result of that failure was that Mr Ls policy was cancelled. 
Mr L has shown me that he continued to pay for the Acromas policy until it expired at 
renewal in October 2021. Why he did that isnt really that important. Acromas was not 
bearing the insurance risk for him and his car at that time. And no claim had been made on 
the policy. So Acromas needs to pro-rate the cover it did provide from its start until it was 
cancelled on 8 February 2021. Mr L has paid it £244.89 in total, so it must then reimburse 
the difference between what Mr L paid it and the pro-rated insurance cost. As the policy 
should never have been cancelled, Acromas cannot keep anything for any cancellation fee. 
And it should add interest to each premium amount that makes up the reimbursement sum 
from the date each was paid by Mr L until settlement is made.
Im also aware of the new policy Mr L had to purchase. The cover seems similar but it was 
more expensive than the policy he had with Acromas. I appreciate that any incident, even if it 
doesnt result in a claim against a policy, will often result in an increase in premium. But the 
policyholder would only usually be subject to such an increase at the point the policy renews. 
But for Acromas failure Mr L would have continued with his policy, which cost him £20.30 
per month, with a final payment being made in October 2021 of £20.26. As it was, on 
9 February 2021 Mr L had to pay his new insurer £29.06 and £27.27 per month thereafter. 
That is a total increase for Mr L in the period until his Acromas policy was due to renew in 
October 2021 of £64.56 (£247.22 paid for the new policy against £182.66 for the cancelled 
cover). Im going to require Acromas to pay that sum to Mr L. And to every overpayment 
amount that makes up that total, to add interest from the date the overpayment was made 
until settlement is made.
I understand that Mr L was caused a lot of upset and inconvenience when he was told the 
policy had been cancelled. His car was in a public area and he had to find another way of 
getting home in order to try and sort out new cover. I also understand that this has generally 
been very frustrating for him and I know hes felt compelled to keep paying the old premium. 
I think £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Mr L said he accepted my decision. Acromas didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr L accepted my provisional decision, and Acromas made no objection to it, Ive no 
need to change, or add to, my findings or award provisionally stated. My provisional findings 
and award are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Acromas to:
Pro-rate the cost of the policy from its start until 8 February 2021 when it was cancelled, 
without applying any fees or charges which would otherwise be due when a policy 
cancels. 
Reimburse Mr L the difference between the pro-rated policy cost and the £244.89 he has 
paid for cover, plus interest* on each premium amount that makes up the reimbursement 
sum from the date each was paid by Mr L until settlement is made.
Pay Mr L £64.56 as reimbursement of the extra cost of cover he had between 
February 2021 and October 2021 inclusive, plus interest* on each extra monthly cost 
that makes up that sum from the date it was paid until settlement is made.
Pay Mr L £250 compensation for the upset he was caused.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr L for HMRC purposes.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman