DRN-1627945
 
complaint
Miss O says Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a regular monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss O took PPI with a charge card in 1995. The PPI was sold to Miss O by another firm but 
Allianz has accepted responsibility for this complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. So I will refer 
to the seller as Allianz to make things easier. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Os complaint should be upheld but Miss O didnt agree. 
So, the complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Os complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Os complaint. Ill explain why.
To get the cover Miss O had to tick a box for it. Had she not wanted the cover she could 
have left this unticked. And Miss O has signed the application form to show she agreed with 
its contents. So on balance I think that Miss O chose to take the policy and did so knowing 
she had a choice about it, even if she cant remember that now, many years later. 
Miss O told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents her best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Miss O only 
took the policy because she was put under pressure to do so.
Whilst Miss O thought she was advised to take the cover, Allianz have told us the sale was 
made with no advice given to Miss O. The application form includes the following, We 
strongly recommend you take cover by ticking the box.  This is a general recommendation 
and that part of the postal application form is pre-printed. Theres no evidence from the time 
of the sale of a bespoke recommendation being made to Miss O, based on her personal 
circumstances. So, it seems most likely that Allianz didnt recommend that Miss O take the 
PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. Instead Allianz had to provide information 
that was clear and not misleading so that Miss O could decide about the policy for herself. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know 
about Miss Os circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped her from 
buying it.I say this because Miss O was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Miss O at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think Miss O could have found the policy useful. I say this because Miss O told us she 
only had statutory sick pay and modest savings to rely on if anything went wrong. The policy 
could have paid 15% of the balance until the claim stopped or the balance was repaid, 
whichever occurred first, and this would have been in addition to Miss Os sick pay. And the 
PPI would also have provided cover if Miss O lost her job. So, having considered all of this, I 
think the policy could have been useful to her. 
So I dont think that Miss O lost out as a result of anything Allianz might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint about Allianz Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman