DRN-2413352
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car supplied with finance from Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers.
Mr A experienced issues with the brakes, the turbo and the parking sensor. He reported 
these issues to the supplying dealer who agreed to look at the car. Mr A says he returned 
the car to the supplying dealer at least four times but not all of the necessary repairs were 
carried out. Because of this, Mr A arranged to have the brakes repaired at a different garage, 
which he paid for. He complained to Close Brothers.
Close Brothers reimbursed Mr A for the cost of some of the repairs hed paid for. But it 
refused to reimburse the cost of repairs to the brakes and said the issues had been due to 
wear and tear. 
Mr A remained unhappy. He says that a fault with the axel wasnt repaired when it should 
have been, and this caused the car to break down in December 2019. Mr A paid for the axel 
to be repaired in January 2020.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt think the car is of satisfactory quality 
and wants to reject it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was enough evidence to 
say that the problems with the brakes and the axel were present at the point of supply and 
felt these issues were more likely to be due to wear and tear given the age and mileage of 
the car.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the independent inspection report stated that the car should be 
returned dot the supplying dealer for rectification.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances including the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.  Id expect a 
second-hand car such as that supplied to Mr A to have a degree of wear and tear and to 
require more repairs than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would 
need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to faults 
caused by general wear and tear.
Mr A and Close Brothers disagree about whether the car had an inherent fault. Ive looked at 
all the available information and taken the circumstances of the case into account to decide 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report. This found that the car had been fitted with 
new brake pads and discs, that there was noise from the turbo, that the gear change was 
erratic, and that the car felt underpowered. It also found that the parking sensor didnt 
function.
Although the report says that the car should be returned to the supplying dealer for repairs, it 
doesnt say whether the faults would have been present at the point of supply.
Ive taken into account the age and mileage of the car. the car was around 11 years old 
when supplied and had covered around 94,000 miles. As Ive already said, Id expect a 
second-hand car to show signs of wear and tear. I can see that the car passed a MOT in 
February 2019, just before Mr A acquired it. The brakes were checked as part of the MOT 
and were noted as advisories. If there was an inherent fault with the brakes or the axel, I 
would have expected this to have been identified at MOT. However, because there werent 
any issues identified, I think its more likely that the faults with the brakes and the axel were 
due to wear and tear.
In relation to the axel, I under stand that this broke in December 2019, which is outside of 
the first 6 months. Under the relevant law, its up to Mr A to show that the fault was present at 
the point of supply. I can see that Mr A covered around 2000 miles since the point of supply. 
If there had been a fault with the axel at the point of sale, I would have expected it to have 
become apparent much sooner than it did. So again, I think its more likely that this issue 
was due to wear and tear. 
I appreciate that it is frustrating when things go wrong with cars but not every fault is a point 
of supply fault which renders the car of unsatisfactory quality. In this case, there isnt enough 
evidence to persuade me that there was a point of supply fault with the car. I think its more 
likely that the issues were due to wear and tear. So, I wont be asking Close Brothers to do 
anything,
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman