Complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc  broke its promise not to take away a 5% credit interest 
rate on its Classic Plus current account after a year.
Background
Mr S has a Classic Plus current account with TSB. In early 2018 TSB experienced very 
significant problems with its computer systems which attracted much criticism. In a radio 
interview at the time, TSBs Chief Executive Officer (CEO) indicated that the credit rate of 
interest on current accounts would be increased to 5%. When asked by the interviewer how 
long this was for, the CEO replied:
That rate doesnt change. So we are not like other banks that give you a high rate and then 
take it away. That rate is there for good.
A few days later TSB wrote to its current account customers. It confirmed that in addition to 
waiving certain fees and, to show how grateful it was for the patience and loyalty of its 
customers, it would increase the credit rate of interest from 3% to 5%. The notice to 
customers also stated We promise we wont take this away after a year.
Just over a year later TSB wrote to its customers again giving them two months notice of its 
decision to decrease the rate of interest on the Classic Plus current account to 3%. 
Mr S says that this is a breach of the promise that was given. He complained to TSB. It told 
him it hadnt broken its promise since the 5% interest rate wasnt taken away after a year. It 
was taken away after 14 months. It also said that the decision to reduce the rate was taken 
after a regular review of interest rates and to better reflect the current position of the 
industry.
Mr S brought his complaint here and our investigator didnt uphold it. She said that TSB had 
not acted unfairly or unreasonably since the account terms and conditions allowed it to 
change the rate. She also said that having an interest rate of 5% for life on a current account 
is not something that we would expect a bank to offer. 
Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
DRN-1020976Ive thought about what a fair and reasonable interpretation of the promise that was given 
here is. In particular, whether it was sufficient to change the terms and conditions in the way 
that Mr S says.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. They clearly state that the interest 
rate is variable, which means that TSB can change it. A fixed rate of interest doesnt usually 
apply to an account of this kind except sometimes for a short promotional period. I think that 
when TSB promised not to take the 5% rate away after a year it was trying to reassure 
customers that, unlike most promotional rates of interest, the rate wouldnt automatically be 
taken away immediately after this time had passed. 
I can see why Mr S was disappointed when the rate was changed here though. I do think it 
would have helped if TSB was clearer in its communication about this when it made the 
decision to change the rate initially. But this doesnt mean that the terms and conditions of 
the account were changed, or stopped applying, in the way hes said. Such an interpretation 
would mean that not only could TSB never decrease the rate of interest on the account, it 
also couldnt ever increase the rate of interest. So I dont think its reasonable to interpret 
what TSB said in this way. 
Ive also looked at the notice which TSB sent Mr S about its decision to reduce the interest 
rate to 3%. TSB has given Mr S two months notice of its decision and has also told Mr S that 
if hes not happy then he can end his agreement and move his account to another bank. By 
doing this, it meant Mr S had a fair amount of time to make alternative arrangements if hed 
made any financial decisions based on the increase to the rate here. 
So overall, Im satisfied that TSB isnt required to do any more. Since the 5% interest rate 
continued to apply for more than a year, I dont agree that TSB has broken its promise or the 
terms and conditions for the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr. S to accept or reject my 
decision before 24th March 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman