DRN-1921595
The complaint
Mrs G complains that FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wont 
reimburse her for the repair costs that shes incurred on a car that was supplied to her under 
a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mrs G under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance that she electronically signed in June 2018;
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs G was about three years old and had a price of 
£9,995  the cars mileage was shown on the agreement and the invoice as 4,440 
but the MOT test records show that the cars mileage was 17,994 when it was 
supplied to Mrs G;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car had failed an MOT test before it was supplied to Mrs G, it was then repaired 
and passed an MOT test but Mrs G says that there were issues with the cars 
performance when it was supplied to her and there were some warning lights;
she took the car for diagnostic testing in March 2019 but no fault was found, she paid 
£90 in August 2019 for an investigation of the warning lights and she paid £504.20 to 
have the air filter replaced in September 2019;
she complained to MotoNovo Finance about the issues with the car and it said that 
she needed to prove that any faults were present or developing when the car was 
supplied to her;
she arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in October 2019 
and paid £398 for an inspection report  the report recorded that the cars mileage 
was showing as 11,775 and said that there were issues with: the condition of the air 
filter, broken air box/housing, disconnected vacuum pipe and damaged turbo 
charger, and numerous missing interior trim parts, all of which should have been 
seen and noted prior to sale/handover/collection;
MotoNovo Finance said that the expert had presented no mechanical evidence to 
show that the issues were the dealers liability  and the dealer had stopped trading;
Mrs G paid £2,520.46 for the cars turbo to be replaced in December 2019 and she 
says that that revolved the issues and that the warning lights now dont come on;
Mrs G has described the issues that she had with the car, including the failed MOT 
test before the car was supplied to her, the poor performance and the warning lights 
and the car was inspected by an independent expert who identified issues with the 
car and said that they would have been present or developing when the car was 
supplied to her  he also identified a discrepancy with the cars mileage;
Mrs G paid for the cars turbo to be replaced and she says that that has dealt with the 
issues; 
I consider it to be more likely than not that there were issues with the car when it was 
supplied to Mrs G and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of 
those issues; and
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for MotoNovo 
Finance to reimburse Mrs G for the repair costs that shes incurred and to take the 
other actions identified below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay a total of £3,114.66 
to Mrs G to reimburse her for the £90 that she paid for investigatory work, the £504.20 that 
she paid to have the air filter replaced and the £2,520.46 that she paid to have the turbo 
replaced  all with interest. I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to reimburse 
her for the £398 that she paid for the experts report, with interest. 
Mrs Gs use of the car has been affected by the issues that shes had with it. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to refund to Mrs G 15% of the monthly 
payments that she made under the agreement from the date that the car was supplied to her 
until the date that the turbo was replaced, all with interest, to compensate her for the impact 
of those issues on her use of the car.
These events will also have caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs G. I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay her £200 to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I order FirstRand Bank Limited, trading 
as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1. Pay £3,114.66 to Mrs G reimburse her for the repair costs that shes incurred.
2. Pay £398 to Mrs G to reimburse her for the cost of the experts report.
3. Refund to Mrs G 15% of the monthly payments that she made under the 
agreement from the date that the car was supplied to her until the date that the 
turbo was replaced.4. Pay interest on the amounts at 1, 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Pay £200 to Mrs G to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mrs G a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman