DRN-2029720
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home contents insurance with St 
Andrews Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mrs Ws insurance policy with St Andrews started in 2007. It initially cost £228 and remained 
at that price for the next two years due to an introductory deal. In 2010 the insurance cost 
£272. 
In 2019, the renewal quote was for £545. At this time, Mrs Ws brother helped her look for 
alternative quotes online and found she could insure with St Andrews for just £118. She 
cancelled her existing policy and took out this cheaper one, and complained that shed been 
treated unfairly.
St Andrews offered to refund some of the premiums paid since 2014, plus some additional 
compensation. That was because St Andrews said that Mrs Ws late husband had dealt with 
the policy before that, and her brother helped her in 2019. So, St Andrews wasnt sure if 
Mrs W wouldve been able to engage with the price of the policy from 2014 onwards. St 
Andrews initial offer was for a total of £115.35. 
Following our involvement, St Andrews recalculated its offer which resulted in an increase  
an additional refund of £87.22, plus interest at 8% simple per year for the time Mrs W was 
without that money, plus additional compensation of £50. 
Our investigator felt the increased offer was a fair way to resolve this complaint. Mrs W 
disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mrs W 
fairly throughout the period she held its insurance policy.
If I find that St Andrews hasnt treated Mrs W fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what St Andrews has offered is fair.
I understand there was an introductory offer in 2007, with the price frozen for the second and 
third years of the policy. I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup the cost of 
such offers over subsequent years, as they may result in a customer initially paying less than 
the true cost of providing the insurance.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. Insurers will typically, over 
the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined models. If an 
insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will increase accordingly  
theres nothing wrong with this.
But where an insurer knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt 
engaging with the renewals process over many years, they should have taken care to make 
sure they treated these consumers fairly  and that they didnt take advantage of the 
consumers behaviour by increasing their premiums just because they didnt engage with the 
cost. 
Mrs Ws policy started in 2007 and her husband contacted St Andrews in 2012 and 2013 
about the price. On both occasions, he obtained a discount on the renewal premium. And 
Mrs W complained about the price in 2019. So, I dont think this is a case where there was 
no engagement with the cost of the policy over many years.
However, St Andrews has offered to refund some of the premiums paid since 2014, plus 
some additional compensation. Having looked at St Andrews overall offer, and the 
circumstances of this complaint, Ive decided that this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
the complaint. 
In 2019, Mrs W obtained insurance with St Andrews for much less than her renewal quote. 
So, I can understand why Mrs W would think this means she was treated unfairly in previous 
years. But the new policy she took out included a new customer discount. That means that 
the price she was charged may have been less than the true cost of providing the insurance 
policy. 
Also, this was a different policy to the one she had previously. Insurance policies are not all 
the same  they have different levels of cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions 
that can affect the price charged, as will the makeup of the pool of customers that each 
policy covers. So, just because the new policy taken out online cost a lot less than her new 
policy  that doesnt mean the amount charged before was unfair.
There are now rules (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers should, in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve had their policy for a number 
of years. These didnt exist when Mrs W took out her policy with St Andrews and even if 
they had, the rules dont go as far as to say insurers need to tell their customers about 
alternative products. So, I dont think St Andrews needed to tell Mrs W in its renewal letters 
when a newer product was introduced.
Overall, I think St Andrews offer of settlement is fair in this case.
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, St Andrews should pay Mrs W:
Its initial offer of £115.35  and if this included interest for the time Mrs W was without 
that money, the interest element should be updated to the date of payment.
The additional refund of £87.22, plus interest at 8% simple per year for the time Mrs W is 
without that money.
Additional compensation of £50.My final decision
My decision is that St Andrews Insurance Plcs offer of settlement is a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve this complaint. It should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman