DRN-1884062
The complaint
Mrs H complains that First Underwriting Ltd (FUL) took too long to settle a claim under her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H was a named driver under her husbands car insurance policy. This provided 
comprehensive cover for damage in the event of fire. Mrs Hs car caught fire by the side of a 
major road and was badly damaged on the evening of 2 December 2019. 
Her husband made a claim to FUL under his car insurance policy. FULs assessor concluded 
that the car was a total loss and it settled the claim later the same month.
Mrs H says that she was without a car during this period and, given her personal 
circumstances, believes FUL should have settled the claim quicker. She also says FUL 
failed to provide adequate customer service by not offering her a courtesy car or any other 
support while her claim was being processed.
FUL explained that it had settled the claim within four weeks of the fire and believed this to 
be reasonable. Mrs H was unhappy with this response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt think FUL had done anything wrong. She was satisfied that it settled 
the claim within a reasonable time. She also explained that Mr Hs policy didnt include the 
use of a courtesy car so FUL was under no obligation to provide one. 
Mrs H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, FUL uses a third-party company to handle its claims process. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any reference here to FUL includes its claims handling company.
I can see that the timeline of events after the fire was as follows:
3 December. Mrs Hs husband made a claim under his policy.
5 December. FUL instructed its recovery agent to collect the car.
11 December. FULs agent collected the car.
16 December. FULs assessor inspected the car.
17 December. The assessors report concluded: The vehicle has sustained heavy 
fire damage to the front of the vehicle Repair costs far exceed the value of the 
vehicle and it should be considered a total loss
30 December. FUL settled the claim.
I appreciate that Mrs H was without a car throughout this period, and I understand that this 
was a difficult time for her. I can also imagine that the fire itself would have been very 
traumatic for her and her family, and Im glad that everyone was ok. 
However, her husbands policy didnt include the use of a courtesy car in any circumstances 
where they were without the use of their car. Ive reviewed FULs internal notes which show 
that FUL explained this to Mrs H on 10 December, a week after the claim. I appreciate that 
Mrs H believes FUL should have provided a courtesy car as good customer service, but Im 
satisfied that FUL was under no obligation to offer this.
Given the timeline above, Im also satisfied that FUL arranged for the car to be collected, 
transported to its repairer, and inspected within two weeks. FULs letter to Mrs H on 17 
December 2019 shows that it contacted Mr H and agreed a settlement figure the same day it 
received the assessors report. The claim was settled within another two weeks.
Overall, Im satisfied that FUL dealt with Mrs Hs claim fairly and within a reasonable time. It 
follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman