DRN-3693756
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) reduced his overdraft limit from £1,500 to 
£560 without any grounds or consent and that this resulted in him having to use his credit 
card more frequently.
What happened
Mr B had a bank account with Lloyds with an arranged overdraft facility of £1,500. Following 
a review of the account Lloyds notified Mr B electronically on 15 November 2021 that it had 
made the decision to reduce the overdraft limit to £560 coming into effect on 22 December 
2021. Lloyds informed Mr B that should he wish to keep the original limit it would have to be 
treated as a new application.
As Mr B advised Lloyds the reduction would impact his finances, Lloyds financial assistance 
team agreed to freeze the daily interest on his account for 30 days and then set up a 
payment plan and gave a further three months to give him the opportunity to review his 
circumstances.
Mr B complained to Lloyds that his overdraft limit was reduced dramatically without consent 
or confirmation or response. He doesnt understand this given hed never missed a payment 
or been in arrears in the time hes been a customer of Lloyds and that he is now in financial 
difficulty and needs his overdraft limit back.
Lloyds said an overdraft facility is not guaranteed and is repayable on demand and following 
review of the overdraft facility a decision was made to reduce the limit to reflect how Mr B 
used it and what is affordable for him. Notice was given electronically as Mr B had chosen to 
receive correspondence paperless. Lloyds said at this time on review of his circumstances it 
wasnt able to offer an increase in his limit. 
Mr B was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and reached the conclusion that Lloyds 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly by reducing Mr Bs overdraft so it more 
closely matched his spending habits and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed  he doesnt believe given his extenuating circumstances it was fair to 
reduce his overdraft limit so severely and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr B is complaining that Lloyds reduced the overdraft limit on his account. Before I go any 
further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the banking facilities 
Lloyds is offering Mr B are fair and reasonable. Ultimately, what services a bank offers  
including how much money it is willing to lend - is a commercial decision. Just like it is up to 
Mr B to decide whether to accept what Lloyds is offering or to take his business elsewhere. 
And providing Lloyds gave Mr B the correct notice of the change in his overdraft limit in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account under Section F  Overdrafts 11. state that 
overdrafts are repayable on demand and that Lloyds will review overdrafts regularly and 
can reduce or remove any limit based on the review and that it will give at least 30 days 
notice.
Lloyds have provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr B on 15 November 2021 giving him 
notice that his overdraft limit will be reduced from 22 December 2021. This is more than the 
30 days notice required in the terms and conditions of the account. So I cant say Lloyds 
have made an error here or done anything wrong in reducing Mr Bs overdraft limit.
I understand Mr B may be unhappy about the sudden reduction in his overdraft limit, but 
overdraft lending is supposed to be for unforeseen emergency borrowing and a bank does 
have a duty to ensure that any lending it makes is affordable. So I cant say that Lloyds has 
done anything wrong when on review of Mr Bs overdraft facility it took the decision to reduce 
the level of debt. Indeed  based on what Mr B has told us and Lloyds about his current 
circumstances and financial difficulties, Lloyds is taking action in-line with what Id expect by 
not increasing his debt and assisting him by putting a freeze on charges and setting up a 
payment plan. 
So given Lloyds gave Mr B the correct notice of the overdraft limit reduction and that it is 
trying to assist Mr B with his current financial circumstances I cant say Lloyds has done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. 
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as Lloyds has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman