DRN-2615126
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way the National House-Building Council (NHBC) have dealt 
with a claim he made in relation to damage caused by an ingress of water to his flat. He says 
NHBC have unfairly refused to accept the total claim, and for the part of the claim they have 
accepted, the settlement figure is significantly lower than the cost of the repairs. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 5 February 2021, setting out why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any final comments by 
19 February, following which time I would proceed to issue my final decision. Both parties 
have now responded to the provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I set out the following: 
What happened
Mr S owns a flat which is built into the pitched roof at the top of the block of flats. His 
flat includes a roof terrace / balcony which is also within the roof space. I will refer to 
this part of the property as the roof terrace. 
In late 2018, an ingress of water caused damage to Mr Ss flat and the flat below. In 
the course of having the doors to the roof terrace replaced, in late 2018 / early 2019, 
it became apparent to Mr S that the frame was unsupported from the bottom at one 
end and the lateral ties to the sides of the frame were only fitted with one screw at 
each end. In Mr Ss opinion, this prevented the doors from being closed properly. He 
also said the roof terrace floor was incorrectly sloped. This meant that rather than 
directing rainwater away from the doors and wall, towards the drainpipe, the 
rainwater was being directed to the faulty joints. He believed that this, together with 
the omission of the waterproof membrane between the foot of the doors and 
windows, resulted in the ingress of water to his property, and to the property below. 
In January 2019, Mr S made a claim under section 3 of his NHBC warranty for 
rectification of poor workmanship of the original build which he considered should 
include the repair of the waterproof membrane, together with the correction of the 
slope of the roof terrace floor. 
Initially, NHBC declined the claim on the basis that, among other reasons, the third 
party whod carried out works to that area may have adversely affected the 
waterproof membrane. Mr S persuaded NHBC that that wasnt the case, so they 
arranged for a claims investigator to inspect the property on 4 March 2019. Following 
the inspection, a report was issued which concluded the cause of the ingress of 
water and subsequent water damage was due to the omission of the waterproof 
membrane. The claims investigator believed that this had allowed water to enter the 
home below the threshold up stand and leak through the floor structure into the flat 
below. His report was silent on this issue of the slope of the roof terrace floor. When 
later questioned about this omission, he said he couldnt recall that being discussed.
The scope of work prepared by the claims investigator provided for works to be 
completed, totalling £2,257.65. Mr S provided an initial quote for the work, from the 
property management companys preferred contractor (in September 2018), for 
£9,703.20. He explained that this quote didnt include any costs for works to correct 
the slope of the roof terrace floor.
In March 2019, Mr S arranged for a temporary repair to be carried out to the property, 
which NHBC subsequently reimbursed him for. With regard to the scope of works, Mr 
S told NHBC that he thought the scope of works was very light on costs, and hed 
have to allow NHBCs contractors to do the work, because he couldnt get the works 
done for that cost. However, in April 2019, NHBC offered Mr S a cash settlement as 
they didnt think their contractors could do the works, given Mr S had his own 
contractors on site, replacing the door and windows to the roof terrace. NHBC also 
declined to cover the cost of removing and refitting the windows and doors on the 
roof terrace because they were of the view that Mr S had plans to do that anyway.
Mr S complained to NHBC about their decision to decline part of his claim in relation 
to the slope of the roof terrace floor. On 5 April 2019, NHBC sent Mr S their final 
response letter in which they said:
the claim had been accepted on the following basis: 
As the damage was caused by inadequate waterproofing (i.e. a non-
compliance with our Technical Requirements) in the external wall (one 
of the listed items on page 13 of the policy) and would cost more than 
£1,630 (£1,000 Indexed, as set out in the policy) to repair, we 
confirmed this is valid under Section 3 of the policy;
it had been established that the water damage had been caused by the 
defective waterproofing below the balcony doors, and not as a result of the 
fall of the roof terrace floor;
as the fall of the roof terrace floor wasnt causing damage to the property, it 
didnt constitute a valid claim under section 3 of the policy.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response NHBC had provided to his complaint and raised 
some further points of clarification. In June 2019, they wrote to him again and added:
balconies arent listed in the policy as one of the areas covered by Buildmark 
in years three to ten, which is why they were unable to assist with any works 
that may be considered necessary to alter the fall;
they couldnt offer additional cover for a further 10 years against any future 
leaks, but the remedial works should be covered for a statutory period of six 
years from their completion by the contractor who carried out the repairs; 
under the policy terms and conditions, the cash settlement sum will be the 
cost NHBC would have had to pay if they had arranged for the works to be 
done;
the cash settlement sum offered did include the cost of the works required to 
remove and re-instate the balcony door / windows, but wouldnt include the 
cost of the windows and doors as they are not covered by the policy;an assessment of the costs Mr S had provided show the main items of price 
difference related to the scaffolding, asphalt and decorations. They also said 
that while their calculations were based on measured quantities, Mr Ss 
quotation only provided a price, without the quantities, so NHBC didnt feel it 
was possible to directly compare the figures quoted; and
their costs are based on those published by Hutchins, a pricing guide widely 
used throughout the building industry, together with an uplift to comply with 
any private contractual agreement they have with their appointed contractors. 
On that basis, theyre satisfied the works can be completed in line with their 
costs by any independent contractor offering a fair price for the works.
NHBC concluded by saying they remain satisfied the amount theyd offered is 
adequate to meet their full liability to Mr S under the policy and suggested that as the 
works required affected a common part of the building, Mr S may wish to seek further 
advice from his managing agents about whether they could get the works completed 
at a similar price to the cost theyd offered.
Mr S remained unhappy with NHBCs response so brought his complaint to our 
service in July 2019. He informed our investigator that heavy rainfall had caused the 
temporary repair to fail. In August 2020 Mr S arranged for the repairs to be done, to 
mitigate any further damage to the property.
In July 2020 our investigator issued her view upholding the complaint. She concluded 
that NHBC needed to cover the cost of removing and refitting the doors and 
windows, because that needed to be done to rectify the defect. She also required 
NHBC to rectify the incorrect slope of the balcony floor. She was of the view that 
Mr Ss explanation wasnt unreasonable  and that if the slope wasnt rectified there 
was a chance that rainwater would cause further water ingress and the repair 
wouldnt be lasting and effective. Mr S accepted our investigators view but NHBC did 
not. In response they said:
their investigations determined the cause of the water ingress was due to 
inadequate waterproofing in the external wall below the balcony doors. Prior 
to their investigation Mr S had contacted them stating a roofing specialist had 
told him the fall was incorrect, but he didnt provide them with a report or any 
official correspondence in support of that; 
their liability to Mr S is limited to the cost of rectifying the defective 
waterproofing which theyre satisfied will stop the water entry and provide a 
lasting repair. Theyre also satisfied that it is a fact that the damage was 
caused by the defective waterproofing because that was established in their 
investigation report;
the cost of repair (£2,257.65) does include the removal and re-fitting of the 
windows and doors, which they say is included in the scope of work. Their 
email to Mr S on 7 July 2019 confirmed that the costs for removal and re-
fitting of the doors was taken into account in the main body of the schedule; 
and with regard to Mr Ss claim for the slope of the balcony floor, they pointed to 
their final response letter in which they explained that they were advised that 
the fall of the balcony floor wasnt what had caused the water damage inside 
the flat. They re-iterated that the damage was a direct result of the defective 
waterproofing below the balcony doors. They added that although they 
acknowledged the comments about the fall to the balcony floor, as that wasnt 
causing damage to the flat, that didnt constitute a valid claim under section 3 
of the policy.
As NHBC didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is agreed that Mr S has made a valid claim under section three of the Buildmark 
Policy. What remains for me to decide is whether, NHBCs proposed cash settlement 
of £2,257.65 is sufficient to satisfy their liability to settle the claim. In reaching my 
provisional decision on this complaint, Ive considered the following questions:
Should the costs of correcting the slope or fall of the roof terrace floor be 
included in the cash settlement amount?
Have the costs of the removal and reinstatement of the doors and windows 
leading to the roof terrace been adequately provided for in NHBCs scope of 
works?
Is the cash settlement offer from NHBC sufficient to meet their liability to 
settle the claim? 
Is Mr S due any other compensation for the delays, distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the way the claim has been 
handled? 
Correction of the slope / fall of the roof terrace fall
An email was included in NHBCs business file from their claims investigator in which 
he said that he couldnt recall the floor terrace slope being raised as a specific issue 
during the meeting at the property. He only recalled discussing that some mastic 
asphalt repairs would be required at the junction between the terrace roof and the 
external wall, but no further work, than that needed to repair the defect would be 
covered. He explained that hed restricted the investigation to the areas covered by 
the policy, i.e. the cause of water ingress into the property through a defect in the 
external wall / roof. He quoted the relevant Technical Requirements which included:
Chapter 6.1 - D4 External walls shall be suitable for their exposure and resist 
the passage of moisture to the inside of the dwelling
Chapter 7.1 - D8 Flat roofs (and balconies functioning as roofs) shall 
adequately resist the passage of moisture to the inside of the buildingThe claims investigator concluded that accordingly, as long as the walls and flat roof 
of the home are performing, as above any other issues of the design are not covered 
by Section 3 of the policy. 
In response to our investigators view, NHBC said that although they acknowledged 
the comments about the fall of the balcony floor, as that wasnt causing damage to 
the flat, that didnt constitute a valid claim under section 3 of the policy. 
Our investigator then asked Mr S if he had a report confirming that the fall of the 
balcony contributed to the damage, and he confirmed that he didnt. He maintained 
that this was discussed at the meeting at the property with the NHBC claims 
investigator, but the investigators report was silent on that point. And NHBCs 
correspondence after that had focused on not covering the re-sloping of the roof 
terrace floor on the basis that balconies werent covered by the policy. 
Mr S disputed that the area was a balcony because it formed part of the roof of the 
flat below. He also observed that at no point had NHBC disputed the balcony has an 
incorrect fall. In his view, if the fall wasnt corrected, then the water would stand on 
the surface or flood, which is what he said was happening on the roof terrace and 
was contributing to the water ingress to the flat below. He believes that although the 
correct application of the waterproofing would initially stop the water ingress, failing to 
correct the fall could lead to the early degradation of the waterproof covering. 
I have sympathy for the points Mr S has made in relation to the slope of the roof 
terrace being a likely contributor to the ingress of water into the property. However, I 
dont have any evidence in the form of an expert report, or investigation report, that 
concludes the slope of the roof terrace was a cause of the water ingress. NHBCs 
claims investigator concluded the cause of the water ingress was the omission of the 
waterproof membrane, which Mr S also agreed with. However, he felt that was only 
part of the explanation for the water ingress, and he expressed concern that if the 
slope wasnt corrected, that wouldnt achieve a lasting and effective repair. 
NHBCs claims investigator, on the other hand, was confident that repairing the 
waterproof membrane would provide a lasting and effective repair. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, or contradictory, as it is here, I have to make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not, is the 
case. And in the absence of any expert evidence to support Mr S view that repairing 
the waterproof membrane, in isolation, wont achieve a lasting and effective repair, 
Im not currently persuaded that this is most likely the case. Based on the available 
expert evidence, I find it more likely that the cause of water ingress was the omission 
of the waterproof membrane, as opposed to the slope of the roof terrace floor. It 
follows that Im currently of the opinion that NHBCs proposed repair would likely 
have been lasting and effective. 
Also, under section 3 of the policy terms and conditions NHBC is only required to put 
right any issues, with the home or common parts, which amount to a breach of 
NHBCs technical requirements. In the event of a breach of those requirements, 
NHBC will pay for: 
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any 
actual physical Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following 
parts of the house, bungalow, maisonette or flat and its garage or 
other permanent outbuilding, or its Common Parts:NHBCs claims investigator accepted that damage caused to an external wall and a 
balcony functioning as roof could be covered under section 3. However, in the 
absence of evidence to show that an incorrectly sloping floor would breach a 
technical requirement, and in the absence of evidence to show the slope of the floor 
caused damage to the property, Im currently of the view that it isnt unreasonable for 
NHBC to reject Mr S claim in relation to the correction of the slope of the roof terrace 
floor. 
However, I dont think NHBC treated Mr S fairly in the way they addressed this 
element of his claim. Mr S has repeated his concerns about the slope of the floor of 
the roof terrace on several occasions, so I find it unlikely that this wasnt discussed at 
the meeting with NHBCs claims investigator. Ive also not been provided with any 
evidence to show that Mr S was given the claims investigators explanation about 
why the slope of the floor of the roof terrace wasnt covered. If the technical 
requirements had been highlighted and the explanation given to him, that as long as 
the walls and flat roof of the home are performing, in accordance with the technical 
requirements, any other issues of the design are not covered by Section 3 of the 
policy, Mr S would at least have felt that NHBC had considered his claim in this 
regard. Rather, NHBCs responses to Mr Ss submissions on this point comprised 
repeating the statement that balconies werent covered by the policy, which was 
irrelevant, as the claims investigator had clearly stated that external walls and flat 
roofs were covered.
Im currently of the view that NHBCs failure to clearly and fairly address this 
significant concern of Mr S in relation to whether their proposed resolution would 
providing a lasting and effective repair, throughout the period of the claim (now in 
excess of two years) has caused him distress and inconvenience that he should be 
compensated for. So, although Im not intending to require NHBC to take any further 
action in relation to the slope of the roof terrace floor, I am intending to award Mr S 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the way theyve 
handled this aspect of his claim. I will set out the compensation amount later in this 
decision when considering the overall distress and inconvenience that Mr S has 
suffered as a result of the way the NHBC have handled his claim.
Removal and reinstatement of the doors and windows leading to the roof terrace
Our investigator concluded that the removal and reinstatement of the doors and 
windows leading to the roof terrace had to be done in order for the repair works to be 
completed  and I agree. What isnt clear is whether NHBC have included costs 
related to that, in their scope of works. Initially, NHBC said that as Mr S was 
removing the doors and windows anyway, the item didnt need to be included, but 
they later said it had been included in the scope of works. Mr S couldnt leave his 
property without doors and windows installed, pending the settlement of his claim, so 
the doors and windows had to be reinstated at that time. As the repair works couldnt 
be scheduled to coincide with that work, due to the settlement of the claim being in 
dispute, then Im satisfied that the cost of removing and reinstating the doors and 
windows does need to be covered by NHBCs cash settlement offer.
Having carefully reviewed NHBCs scope of works, I accept that in the purpose 
section on page 1 of the scope of works, reference is made to temporarily removing 
the PVCu door window unit and reinstalling the door / window unit. But it isnt clear to 
me that costs have been included to cover the works to remove and reinstate the 
door / window unit. At the end of the itemised section of the schedule of works, a 
comment has been added to the effect that the removal and reinstatement is 
currently work in progress by the policyholder. So, Im currently of the view that the actual costs of removing and reinstalling the door / window unit havent been 
provided for in NHBCs scope of works.
Is the cash settlement offer sufficient to meet NHBCs liability to settle the claim?
NHBC have accepted liability to settle the claim. So, what remains for me to decide is 
whether their cash settlement offer is sufficient to discharge that liability. However, 
before I consider the quantum of the claim, Ive first addressed the issue of who 
requested the cash settlement, in lieu of the repair works being completed by 
NHBCs contractors. Im considering this first because it has a material impact on 
whether the cash settlement offered will be considered sufficient to settle the claim. If 
a business doesnt offer to carry out the repairs, and instead offers a cash settlement, 
the settlement amount needs to meet the costs to the consumer, of completing the 
repairs. 
In an email exchange between Mr S and NHBC on 13 March 2019, NHBC said 
theyd look to offer a cash settlement for this type of claim as it is usually quicker to 
instruct a local tradesman who has availability to attend immediately. They said there 
can often be a slight delay, depending on availability, when NHBC approved 
contractors attend. 
On 26 March, Mr S queried whose choice it was to settle the claim by a cash 
settlement rather than having the repair works done. He suggested there could be 
some benefit to a cash settlement, however, he also expressed concern about 
NHBCs schedule of works being very light on costs and said that if NHBCs 
contractors could carry out work of an appropriate standard and liaise with all 
interested parties for those costs, then he may have to defer to them. 
On 1 April 2019, NHBC told Mr S that it was his choice whether to cash settle, 
saying: you also have an option for a cash settlement to have the works carried out 
by your own contractors. However, NHBCs case history notes show that on the 
following day the claims investigator decided that since Mr S was already doing work 
to the windows, they couldnt get their contractor out to do the works, so it was best 
that Mr S continue with his contractors, making a cash settlement the best way 
forward. The NHBC then made Mr S a cash settlement offer, saying: Please see the 
attached settlement form for you to review, sign and return to us. We have concluded 
that the best way forward is to cash settle the claim as you have commenced the 
works with the window/door replacement, and it will only make sense for your 
assigned contractors to proceed with the works. 
In December 2019, Mr S told us that NHBC were refusing to do the full repair costing 
and were only offering between £2,000 and £3,000 and he couldnt find anyone to do 
the repairs for that sum. He also said the NHBC was refusing to do the repairs 
themselves.
In February 2020, Mr S told us that following the recent storms they were having 
extreme issues with the water ingress. In April 2020, he said that the property 
management company was proceeding to get the works done because, the three 
storms in late January and February 2020 had overwhelmed the temporary repair, 
and they needed to progress with the repairs to the building to avoid further damage 
and risk to the residents. He observed that did mean the evidence would disappear.  
In August 2020, Mr S confirmed the works would be going ahead and again told us 
that the NHBC had been invited to organise the work using their own contractors but 
they had declined.As mentioned previously, where the evidence is inconsistent or contradictory, as it is 
here, I make my decision on the basis of the balance of probabilities, that is, what I 
think, more likely than not, is the case.
Having weighed up all of the available evidence, I think it more likely than not, that 
the NHBC chose to offer a cash settlement to Mr S, rather than carry out the works. 
A number of reasons were offered for why they thought it was the best way forward. 
However, Mr S didnt sign the settlement form when received, and expressed 
concern throughout, at the level of costs included in the NHBC scope of works, 
saying that he couldnt get the works done for that total sum, so the NHBCs 
contractor would need to carry out the works. Eventually, to mitigate further damage 
to the property, Mr S arranged for the repair works to be done.
As Ive provisionally concluded that the decision to offer a cash settlement for the 
claim was made by the NHBC, it follows the cash settlement offer needs to be 
sufficient to enable Mr S to have the works done. 
So, the next issue Ive provisionally decided is whether the offer of £2,257.65 made 
by the NHBC to Mr S is sufficient to satisfy their liability under the policy to pay the 
claim and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S told us that the works were completed in August 2020 for a total of £7,476.50. 
The invoice from the contractor said the time taken to complete the works was ten 
days, with four operatives. The labour was billed at £4,000 and the materials at 
£3,476.50 for the following works: To lay a suprema high performance felt overlay to 
the terrace as per the quote dated 14 February 2020. The works more particularly 
detailed in the 14 February 2021 quotation included removing tiles and the old mastic 
asphalt, skirtings, expanded metal lathing, sand and concrete screed; apply bond 
primer and vapour control layer; supply BSF isolating control layer; lay mastic asphalt 
parma screed, supply isolating membrane; fix mastic asphalt, and brushing two coats 
of white solar reflective coating to the exposed vertical upstand, and fit natural paving 
slabs on support pads. 
The contractor also added that on removing the windows and doors they found there 
was a large section of screed that was missing under the double-glazed units and the 
damp proof membrane was missing. The screed was cut back, and a new damp 
proof membrane was installed and concreted to the correct falls. The tiles were 
removed and a new felt system installed with paviours installed on top. 
The schedule of works provided by the NHBC quoted £2,257.65 for temporarily 
removing the PVCu door window unit and remove the timber upstand to the width of 
the opening and replace complete with associated mastic asphalt waterproofing and 
re-install door/window unit, replace water damaged skirting and window boards and 
make good internal decorations to window reveals and adjacent wall areas. Six 
hours of labour was separately included in the scope of works. When asked about 
why there was such a big difference between Mr S costs for repair and the NHBCs, 
the claims investigator initially said that the main items of price difference relate to 
the scaffolding, asphalt and decorations. He said that NHBCs calculations are based 
on measured quantities, whereas Mr S quotation only provided a price without the 
quantities, so the figures quoted couldnt directly compared.
Having considered the two scopes of work, I asked NHBC for some further 
clarification. Although the claims investigator has now retired, NHBC were able to 
obtain some comment from another claims investigator and provided some further 
explanation in relation to the differences in the two costs of repair.I queried why labour costings were only included for the roofers works, and the 
NHBC said that the rates shown for the joinery and decoration included material and 
labour costs. They agreed that there were no costings included for the removal and 
replacement of the doors and windows, which should have been included. They also 
agreed there was no allowance made for the removal and replacement of tiles and 
paving slabs, which there should be, in the area immediately in front of the doors. 
They also agreed there was no reference to the provision of a lead tray, and said it 
wasnt clear where the tray should be. They agreed that there was no provision for 
the replacement of the missing section of screed and confirmed the claims 
investigator did say in his report that the threshold needed reconstructing. With 
regard to the difference in the calculation of labour costs, four men for 10 days 
compared with four hours plus a schedule price for roofing/asphalt repairs, NHBC 
said it seems they have replaced the complete flat roof covering, whereas the NHBC 
was only allowing for repair.
In relation to their contractor rates, the NHBC confirmed there was no discount 
applied and in fact they include an uplift dependent on where the contractor is based 
in the country. They also confirmed the rates used to confirm a cost of repair are built 
from the Hutchins Schedule of rates, a well-known construction pricing regime used 
in the construction industry.
Its not straight forward for me to assess how much of Mr S scope of works should 
be provided for in the NHBCs cash settlement offer. A report from an independent 
expert isnt available, because the works have now been completed due to the 
ongoing ingress of water following stormy weather conditions. NHBC have agreed 
that a number of significant elements of the costs of repair were omitted from the 
schedule of works, and the claims investigator who completed the schedule of works 
is no longer employed by the NHBC. Mr S also gave NHBC a number of 
opportunities to arrange for their own contractor to do the works.
In reaching my provisional decision on this issue, Ive considered which evidence is 
more persuasive, as to the accurate cost of works required to deliver a lasting and 
effective repair. Given the number of items and costs that NHBC incorrectly omitted 
from its scope of works, I find the invoice Mr S has provided for completion of the 
works, together with the scope of works included in the February 2021 quotation, to 
be more persuasive than the scope and costs put forward by NHBC. I also note that 
NHBC havent provided me with any persuasive evidence to suggest there were 
elements included in the works that werent necessary to give a lasting and effective 
repair. So, taking everything into account, Im currently minded to require NHBC to 
reimburse the full cost of repair of £7,476.50, in settling Mr S claim.
Mr S has told us that the property management company, T, paid the contractors 
invoice and recovered the costs from the owners through the service charge. Hes 
requested that the cost of repair be reimbursed to T, so they can return it to the 
owners of the flats in the development in their appropriate shares. So, should Mr S 
accept the final decision on his complaint, Im intending to require the NHBC to pay 
the sum of £7,476.50 plus interest, into Ts bank account (as provided by Mr S to 
them).
Is any other compensation due to Mr S?
Ive next considered whether NHBCs handling of Mr S claim has caused him 
distress and inconvenience that he should be compensated for.Ive already explained why I think compensation is due for the way in which NHBC 
addressed Mr S claim regarding the slope of the roof terrace floor. In addition, I think 
the delays Mr S suffered in having his claim settled also added to the distress and 
inconvenience caused by NHBCs overall handling of the claim. He made the claim in 
January 2019. In April 2019, he had to arrange for temporary repairs to be carried out 
to the flat, which failed the following February. Given the ongoing damage that was 
being caused to the flat, and the failure of the temporary repair, Mr S then had to 
arrange for the works to be completed in August 2020 in the knowledge that NHBC 
were only offering to reimburse a small part of the cost, in their settlement offer. 
NHBC didnt engage meaningfully with the costings provided by Mr S, but appeared 
to be set on cash settling the claim. So, what should have been a fairly straight 
forward repair, became a protracted and drawn out matter. 
Mr S has told us that hes found the whole experience very frustrating and stressful 
and has lost five months of rent and incurred five months of council tax as he had to 
give notice to his tenants to vacate the property to get the works done. Although the 
policy doesnt provide cover for loss of rent, Ive taken Mr S comments into account 
when deciding the amount of compensation which should be paid to him. Taking 
everything into account, Im intending to award Mr S £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the way NHBC have handled his claim.
I concluded that I was intending to uphold the complaint and require NHBC to pay £7,476.50 
to T, the property management company, to settle the claim, and £750 to Mr S for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused by the way the claim was handled.
I also clarified in an email of the same date, that the £7,476.50 needed to be paid together 
with VAT on that sum.
NHBC accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S also accepted my provisional decision, but in addition, provided the following 
comments:
Mr S has clarified that the decision to change the doors wasnt an arbitrary one. 
Rather, the new doors and windows were ordered as a result of carrying out 
investigations into the possible cause of the water ingress. During those 
investigations it was found that the roof terrace doors had sagged, and the frame had 
distorted due to incorrect fitting by the builder. Removal of the doors also uncovered 
the other structural issues that lay beneath them.
He feels that NHBCs initial refusal to consider his complaint was totally 
unreasonable, which was borne out by the site visit of NHBCs claims investigator. 
He said that during the site visit with the claims investigator the following factors 
contributing to the ingress of water were discussed: the fitting of the windows and 
why theyd failed; the missing part of the structure at the intersection of the roof 
terrace and the upstand; and the incorrect fall of the roof terrace. But the report 
produced by the claims investigator left him dumbfounded by its omissions, leading 
to further communications with NHBC.
He says its wrong for the claims investigator to rely on the technical requirement, in 
isolation and maintains the fall of the roof terrace was incorrect and an obvious 
contributor to the water ingress problem.
He believes the amount calculated for the cash settlement didnt even cover the partial solution detailed by NHBC and repeated that hed asked them to do the works. 
He felt that in making the cash settlement a time limited offer, NHBC was trying to 
force his hand.
With regard to the question of what compensation is due, Mr S has added that hes incurred 
the cost of replacing the windows and doors, which if theyd been fitted properly, should still 
have been in good working order. Hes explained that the owner of the flat below, that 
suffered damage from the water ingress, had to have the property vacated for the ceilings to 
be repaired. Hes also pointed out that during the period of the repair, four residents lost the 
use of their parking spaces due to scaffolding etc; all of the leaseholders have faced 
increased service charges theyve had to fund; and the redecoration and ceiling replacement 
in the flat below has been covered by the building insurance which will lead to increased 
future premiums.
Ive taken these further comments into account in making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the further points made by Mr S, but they havent led me to a different outcome. I 
appreciate that the owner of the flat below his, and the other leaseholders have also been 
impacted by matters arising from this claim, however, Im only able to award compensation 
to Mr S, as he has the contractual relationship with NHBC. Im also satisfied that Ive taken 
the other points Mr S has raised, into account, when making my provisional decision.
So, for the reasons detailed in this decision and my provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint and make the awards detailed below.  
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require the National House-Building 
Council to 
Pay £7,476.50 plus VAT to T, the property management company, in settlement of 
the claim, together with interest* from the date T paid the invoice from the building 
contractor until settlement is made; and 
Pay £750.00 compensation to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered 
as a result of the way the National House-Building Council has handled his claim. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. If the 
National House-Building Council considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from any interest due to Mr S, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require the National House-Building 
Council to pay the awards detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman