DRN-3299329
The complaint
Mr Y complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Helm Godfrey
Partners Ltd (Helm Godfrey). Hes said the investment it recommended for part of his SIPP
(Self Invested Personal Pension) presented a higher degree of risk than he had agreed to
take. He has also said he was incorrectly assessed as a Professional Client.
What happened
I issued my Provisional Decision on this complaint on 10 September 2021. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the background and my provisional 
findings here.
Background
Mr Y has said he was introduced to Helm Godfreys adviser in 2010 by a friend. He said he
was looking to discuss the investments held within his SIPP as he had in excess of £800,000
held on deposit in it.
A Meeting Note dated 24 March 2010 recorded that Mr Ys SIPPs total value was
approximately £1.4 million. Helm Godfreys adviser completed a Risk Profiler Questionnaire
which Mr Y signed on 27 March 2010. It included the following questions and Mr Ys
responses.
Q - Which statement best describes your objectives for this investment?
A - I want to achieve higher long-term returns and am prepared to tolerate reasonable levels
of volatility.
Q - At the beginning of the year you have £100,000 invested. The chart and options below
show the performance of five different hypothetical investments. Each bar gives a range of
possible values at the end of the same year. Which investment are you most happy with?
A - Portfolio B £124,000 to £90,000 (out of a range of A to E). A was £114,000 to £96,000
and E was £144,000 to £72,000.
Q - What level of fall in the value of this portfolio over a one-year period would concern you,
bearing in mind that equity investment requires a long term view?
A - 10% to just under 15%. There were five categories ranging from 0% to 5% to None of
the above concern me.
 The questions and answers were input into a well-known providers online risk profiler which
produced an Assess attitude to risk report. This report generated a score which was
described as giving:
an indication of the level of risk your client is prepared to take with this investment on a
range from 1 (low risk) to 10 (high risk).
The score was 7. A handwritten asterisk was marked against the following wording:
This questionnaire was completed with a particular product in mind.
Mr Y signed a Helm Godfrey Client Agreement on 12 May 2010 (there is also another date
on it - 12 August 2010). This included:
It is a requirement of the Financial Services Authority that all clients being advised on
designated investment business are categorised into one of three categories. Unless
otherwise agreed in writing, you have been categorised as a "Retail Client" giving you the
highest level of protection. However you have the right to request a different categorisation if
you wish.
A Confidential Client Information Fact-Find for Mr and Mrs Y was completed and signed by
Mr Y on 12 May 2010.This recorded:
Mr Y was a business owner/property developer
Mr and Mrs Ys estimated income was around £1 million per year
They had approximately £450,000 in an ISA
Mr Ys attitude to risk was Balanced Adventurous. It described this as Likely to suit  
an experienced long-term investor seeking returns that significantly outpace 
inflation. A handwritten note said Likes to self invest to a large extent. Distrust of 
institution and lack of imagination.
Under clients knowledge and experience the experienced box was ticked. Another 
box handwritten into the fact-find was also ticked as professional
Mr Ys company had had a good year with £2 million in profits. It said other property 
investments were doing well in an investment company
Notes added to the fact find said Mr Y had a portfolio of properties. Helm Godfrey 
has said Mr Ys portfolio of properties was worth approximately £6 million.
The application for the investment was signed and dated by Mr Y on 20 May 2010.
A New Business Submission Sheet referring to the £100,000 investment was signed by the
adviser on 20 May 2010 and the administrator on 21 May 2010.
A letter from the SIPP provider to Helm Godfrey dated 25 May 2010 said:
Further to your letter dated 20th May and a conversation I have had today with your
colleague [name of adviser], please find enclosed the application form for [Mr Ys]
investment in the Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell (Cell1). Also find enclosed various money
laundering documents ..and a cheque in the sum of £100,000. 
Mr Y was sent a suitability letter by Helm Godfrey dated 26 May 2010. This said, amongst
other things, that Mr Y:
Was in his mid-50s
Was the managing director of a business
Wanted to retire in 5 years time
Was contemplating selling his company at retirement for a figure in the region of £10 
million
Had a SIPP worth about £1.35 million
The suitability letter included the following:Attitude to Risk
At our meeting on 27 March 2010 you completed a risk profile questionnaire. The 
questionnaire has been processed and the results show you have a risk level of 5 on a 
scale of 1 to 7 where 1 is the lowest risk and 7 is the highest risk. Your risk level would 
indicate a balanced to adventurous attitude to risk.
This is consistent with the portfolio you have put together and the rather adventurous 
investments you have undertaken in the past.
Recommendation
From the funds within your SIPP trustee bank account I have recommended an 
investment of £100,000 in the Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell. I would confirm that in order to 
make these investments you will need to be classified as a Professional Client.
During our meeting I provided you with written confirmation of the definition of a 
Professional Client however I would ask you to please read the definition below and kindly 
sign the attached letter confirming your understanding of being categorised as a 
professional client.
It went on to say:
The definition of a Professional Client is as follows:
A professional  client  is a client  that "Is capable  of making  his/her  own Investment  
decisions  and understand  the risks  involved".
Appropriateness: Where we assess whether a product or service is appropriate for you, we 
can assume that you have the necessary level of experience and knowledge to understand 
the risks involved in relation to any Investment, service, product or transaction. We 
therefore may not issue you with the same level of documentation as that provided to a 
Retail Client.
Eligibility to Complain: As a Professional Client you would not be an "Eligible 
complainant" and may lose the right of access to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Any 
complaint you make will be dealt with under our Internal complaints procedures.
Financial Promotions: We may take your status into consideration in determining what 
Information should be Included In a financial promotion to you in order to satisfy our 
requirement to make the communication fair, clear and not misleading.
And later in the letter it said:
The investment is consistent with your current attitude to risk.
Rejuvenation Mauritius is as a cell of Rejuvenation PCC Limited, an open-ended protected
cell investment company which is registered in Guernsey and authorised by the
Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
There are no Cancellation Rights associated when investing in the Rejuvenation Mauritius
Cell.
I [Helm Godfreys adviser] am a director of Rejuvenation PCC Limited.I would refer you to the following risk factors when investing:
 The value of your investment may go down as well as up and a shareholder may not get
back the full amount invested.
 There is likely to be an illiquid market in the shares and in such circumstances
shareholders may find it difficult to realise their investment.
 You should note that shares will not be redeemable until after the property is sold and will
not be transferable other than in very limited circumstances.
 It is appropriate to consider investing over the medium to long term.
 There can be no assurance that Rejuvenation Mauritius will achieve its investment
objective. Past operating history is no guarantee to its likely future performance.
 There is no guarantee that the investment will produce a greater return than your [name of
provider] SIPP bank account.
Mr Y signed an undated declaration which said:
I confirm that I wish to be treated as a professional client in respect of my investment in the
Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell.
I confirm that I have been made aware in writing of the investor and compensation rights I
may lose in respect of making an investment in the Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell. I confirm
that I am aware of the consequences of losing such protections.
£100,000 was invested into Rejuvenation PCC Limited re Mauritius Cell on 31 July 2010.
This bought 80,645 units priced at £1.24 each.
Mr Y subsequently complained to Helm Godfrey by letter dated 15 December 2016. The
value of the investment had fallen significantly and he complained that, in brief, the
investment wasnt suitable for his circumstances.
Helm Godfrey didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint and it was subsequently referred to us. Helm
Godfrey didnt think the complaint had been referred to us within the relevant time limits. I
issued a decision on our jurisdiction to consider the complaint on 1 March 2021. My decision
was that we were able to consider it. In this decision, I am now considering the merits of Mr
Ys complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y complained to Helm Godfrey by letter dated 15 December 2016. In it he said:
The reason for my complaint is that the investment was not suitable for my circumstances
because
 I was identified as a balanced investor, not very high risk investor
 At no time could I be categorised as a professional investor (a high net worth
client but certainly not sophisticated) The investment was not commensurate to my attitude to risk
And when Mr Y referred his complaint to us he said in his letter dated 21 March 2017 that he
wanted to complain about an investment he made into his pension after taking advice from
Helm Godfreys adviser. He said, amongst other things, that it was a matter of record that
I was not a high risk investor and although he acknowledged he had a very high capacity
for loss he said his tolerance to risk has always been no more than balanced to
adventurous at the most, however, this falls well short of a very high risk investment being
an appropriate recommendation.
So, I think Mr Ys complaint is essentially that the investment Helm Godfrey recommended
presented a higher degree of risk than he had agreed that he wanted to take. And that he
was incorrectly classified as a professional investor/client.
The investment has been referred to as an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme
(UCIS). Its not entirely clear to me whether this was or wasnt a UCIS. The suitability letter
described it:
Rejuvenation Mauritius is as a cell of Rejuvenation PCC Limited, an open-ended protected
cell investment company which is registered in Guernsey and authorised by the Guernsey
Financial Services Commission.
Whether it was or wasnt strictly a UCIS, it was similar in that it had restrictions on the type of
consumer it could be promoted to. In my view the question of whether it was a UCIS, or not,
isnt material to deciding the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint. In my view Mr Y
was the type of investor that this investment could be promoted to, in that he was a high net
worth client.
Mr Y signed an undated declaration saying that he wished to be treated as a professional
client in respect of the investment in the Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell.
The regulators Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) provided:
Elective professional clients
COBS 3.5.3 R
A firm may treat a client as an elective professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and,
where applicable, (2):
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making his own investment
decisions and understanding the risks involved (the "qualitative test");
(2) in relation to MiFID or equivalent third country business in the course of that
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant market at an
average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash deposits
and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000;
(c) the client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and(3) the following procedure is followed:
(a) the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a professional
client either generally or in respect of a particular service or transaction or type of
transaction or product;
(b) the firm must give the client a clear written warning of the protections and investor
compensation rights the client may lose; and
(c) the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware
of the consequences of losing such protections.
Mr Y says he wasnt a professional client. He said although he had experience of having
built up a portfolio of UK residential properties, he had limited knowledge of investments
outside of his property portfolio and he relied on a firms advice. In 2014 Mr Y was asked to
answer some questions about his file and investment following an FCA section 166 order to
Helm Godfrey. Mr Y identified himself as a balanced risk investor. Mr Y said Mr M of Helm
Godfrey asked him do you buy and sell properties and have you invested as a professional
businessman and entrepreneur your own business?. Upon confirming that he had indeed
done so, Mr Y says he was told by Mr M that as a result of this response, he was a
professional investor and needed to sign accordingly. Mr Y said, during discussions with the
adviser, he questioned the issue as he didnt appreciate what the term meant. However, Mr
Y says that as Mr M had come highly recommended to him by a trusted friend, he in turn
trusted that this was the correct thing to do. Mr Y says he now realises this trust was
misplaced.
The adjudicator said he thought what was key in relation to COBS 3.5.3 R (1) was that the
assessment was in light of the nature of the transactions or services envisaged. The
investigator didnt think that Helm Godfrey had demonstrated that it had carried out an
adequate assessment of Mr Ys expertise, experience and knowledge of overseas
unregulated property developments.
Helm Godfrey had explained in its suitability letter dated 26 May 2010 that in order to make
the investment Mr Y needed to be classed as a Professional Client. In that letter it said it had
previously provided Mr Y with written confirmation of the definition of a Professional Client,
and it asked him to sign a letter to confirm his understanding of being categorised in this
way. Mr Y signed that declaration.
So Helm Godfrey took steps to alert Mr Y to what a Professional Client was and followed the
procedure in COBS 3.5.3 (3). But in order for Helm Godfrey to treat Mr Y as an Elective
Professional Client it was also required to meet the requirements of COBS 3.5.3 (1). It was
required to make an adequate assessment of Mr Ys expertise, experience and knowledge,
in light of the transaction, to give it reasonable assurance that Mr Y was capable of making
his own investment decision and the risks involved.
Helm Godfrey did obtain information that was relevant to such an assessment as recorded in
the Fact-Find. Mr Y had investments in residential property, his pension and an ISA. The
Fact-Find also recorded his investment knowledge and experience as experienced and
professional.
However it doesnt record how it came to this conclusion or in what types of investments Mr
Y had knowledge and experience of (in addition to his current provision). The investments
recorded in the fact find appear to be mainstream investments. I dont think this was
sufficient to give it a reasonable assurance that Mr Y had knowledge and experience of thetype of niche investment presented by Rejuvenation PCC Limited and its associated risks.
So, like the adjudicator, I dont think Helm Godfrey demonstrated that it had undertaken an
adequate assessment of Mr Ys expertise, experience and knowledge of the type of
investment he was actually making - an overseas property investment. So I dont think it had
a reasonable assurance he was capable of making his own investment decision and
understood the risks involved in the particular transaction.
However even if I am wrong about that, Ive also seen no evidence that Mr Y satisfied two
out of the three conditions set out in 3.5.3 (2) a, b and c  the qualitative test. Ive seen no
evidence on file that this was established.
So I dont think Mr Y was a Professional Client as provided for in the COBS Rules. I think Mr
Y was a retail client as he was originally categorised in the terms of business.
Having said that, although I dont think Helm Godfrey correctly classified Mr Y as a
Professional Client, I dont think this failure alone caused the losses that Mr Y has claimed.
As I have said above, in my view he was the type of investor that this investment could be
promoted to, in that he was a high net worth client. I think whats material to deciding the fair
and reasonable outcome of Mr Ys complaint about the suitability of the investment advice
given, is whether Helm Godfrey met its obligations in providing suitable advice.
Helm Godfrey was providing regulated advice on investments and was therefore bound by
the Regulators Conduct of Business rules; in particular COBS 9 as it applied to a retail
client.
These included:
COBS 9.2.1(1) which said that A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
And the relevant part of COBS 9.2.2 which provided:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
Helm Godfrey was also bound by the Regulators overarching Principles for Business which
included: Principle 2, that a firm must conduct its business with due skill care and diligence;
and Principle 9, that it must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.Did Helm Godfrey meet its obligations?
Helm Godfrey completed a fact-find, and I think it did obtain the information that was
necessary for it to understand Mr Ys general financial position. It also obtained information
about Mr Ys preferences regarding risk taking and his risk profile.
However, it was also required to have a reasonable basis for believing that its
recommendation met Mr Ys investment objectives; that he was able financially to bear the
related investment risks and he had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction.
Its not in dispute that Mr Y was able to bear the risks the investment presented; in my view
he had the financial capacity to absorb the loss of the whole investment  i.e if the
investment failed, he had other financial provision he could rely on.
However, although an investor may have the capacity to accept risk, they are still able to
decide on the preferred level of risk that they actually want to take with any particular
investment. I note the following:
the risk profiler which produced an Assess attitude to risk report. This suggested Mr 
Y had a risk rating of 7 on a scale of 1 to 10.
Mr Ys answers in the questionnaire as I set out above didnt suggest he wanted an  
investment that presented high risks. Mr Y had said he was prepared to tolerate 
reasonable levels of volatility; had indicated he would be happy with the example 
portfolio B and losses/gains between £124,000 and £90,000 from a £100,000 
investment, and would be concerned if the portfolio lost 10 to 15% over a year. 
It recorded This questionnaire was completed with a particular product in mind.
Section 8 of the Confidential Client Information Fact-Find that recorded Mr Ys 
attitude to risk was Balanced Adventurous.
Although the suitability letter said Mr Y had been assessed as having a risk rating of
5 out of 7 (which doesnt reflect the source document that had a scale of 1-10 as I
have said above), it was in any event described as Your risk level would indicate a
balanced to adventurous attitude to risk.
The suitability letter confirmed The investment is consistent with your current attitude
to risk.
Mr Y has said he has always thought himself as a balanced risk investor and this is reflected 
in his investments made before and after his dealings with Helm Godfrey. However, I note 
that the 2009 annual report for Mr Ys SIPP recorded that although the Investment 
Objective was Balanced, the Risk Profile was Higher.
I think its clear that Mr Y had the capacity to accept significant levels of risk with a proportion 
of his money. But in my view I consider its most likely that both parties understood Mr Y had 
agreed to a balanced to adventurous degree of risk for this particular investment in itself.  
This is because, as I have set out above, Mr Ys attitude to risk was recorded in the fact-find 
and suitability letter as balanced/adventurous; this was consistent with the risk profile 
questionnaire rating of 7 out of 10; the answers in that questionnaire werent consistent with 
someone wanting to accept significant or speculative risks; the suitability letter showing theadvisers understanding said the investment was consistent with Mr Ys attitude to risk; the 
absence of evidence suggesting that Mr Y wanted an investment presenting higher risk, but 
within an overall balanced to adventurous portfolio, or evidence that the investment had 
been presented to Mr Y in this context.
An overview of the project underlying the Mauritius Rejuvenation investment was given in
the suitability letter. It said the first phase of the development had changed, as the original
scheme had been to develop the project as a medical centre with a number of villas and
apartments surrounding it, which would be let to those receiving treatment at the medical
centre. However, it had been decided that the medical centre should become a commercial
centre and that the villas and apartments would be built for sale.
It said the first phase would now encompass the construction of the commercial centre and
twenty-two residential units, comprising a number of three to five-bedroom villas and one to
three-bedroom apartments. Cell 1, on its completion, would own the commercial centre,
comprising of shops, restaurants and offices that would lie at the heart both of the first phase
and of the extended development.
It said the development was a Real Estate Scheme regulated and approved by the Mauritian
Board of Investment. And then it went on to describe some of the risks the investment
presented as I have set out in the background section above.
The risks of the investment were also set out in the Information Memorandum dated March
2010. These included the risks associated with borrowings that could be used to invest in the
property; that it was subject to the usual business risks associated with investing in
commercial property; there were illiquidity risks as it wasnt listed or quoted on an exchange
and there was no established market; there was no investors compensation scheme; the
costs of developing and constructing the properties had currency exchange rate risks, and a
Loan Note paying a 6.25% rate that had been issued as an alternative to bank financing was
unsecured. It also said:
The content of this promotion has not been approved by an authorised person within the
meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Reliance on this promotion for the
purpose of engaging in any investment activity may expose an individual to a significant risk
of losing all of the property or other assets invested.
Any person who is in any doubt about the investment to which this Information Memorandum
(Memorandum) relates should consult an authorised person specialising in advising on
investments of the kind to which this memorandum requires.
The performance of the investment depended on the success of this single commercial
property focussed overseas project. The investment was exposed to a number of risks as I
have described above, including the significant risk of losing all the assets invested. The
investment also didnt have all the protections and restrictions associated with mainstream
regulated funds.
Taking all this into account, I think the investment itself presented significant risks, and
presented a greater degree of risk than the balanced to adventurous risk that Mr Y had
agreed to take for this particular investment.
Mr Y has said:
To be clear, I have never received a brochure / key features document or similar document
for the investment and I have also never received a formal signed reason why letter on Helm
Godfrey letterhead.He has subsequently said that he didnt receive a copy of the reason why letter at the time
of the transaction. And although he said he doesnt remember receiving a brochure, he
recalls seeing a document containing some architectural drawings.
Mr Y did sign a subscription form for the Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell (Cell1) on 20 May
2010. And in the declaration it said he agreed he had Read and understood the Information
Memorandum.
The reason why letter was dated 26 May 2010 so this was after the advisers meetings with
Mr Y and after the application forms had been signed. The copy provided to Mr Y when he
requested his data from the firm in 2011 was on un-headed paper and was unsigned; as was
the copy on the firms file provided to us.
So I think there is some doubt as to whether Mr Y received a copy of the reason why letter
at the time he made the decision to invest. However, although Mr Y also says he didnt
receive a brochure, he does recall seeing a document containing some architectural
drawings. I dont think its likely that Mr Y would have agreed to invest such a significant
amount of his capital - £100,000  without some information about what he was investing
into. I think its more likely than not that he would have wanted some information and
understanding of where he was putting his money. Mr Y has said he didnt have sight of the
reason why letter which provided some information about the investment. Given Im not
aware of any other obvious source of information I think its more likely than not that he did
see the Information Memorandum. And this is consistent with Mr Y signing the subscription
form dated 20 May 2010 which said he had read and understood it.
The risks of the investment were outlined in the Information Memorandum. This was 57
pages long. On page 8 it said that reliance on the promotion could expose the individual to a
significant risk of losing all of the investment. It also went onto say the investment in property
could carry a higher risk than investments in quoted shares and may be difficult to realise.
So I recognise it could be argued that Mr Y should have been alerted that he was taking a
higher degree of risk than the balanced to adventurous risk initially agreed from the
information in the Memorandum.
However, Helm Godfrey was obliged to provide advice that was suitable and met Mr Ys
investment objectives. This included his preference for risk, and that the investment needed
to be aligned to the degree of risk that he wanted to take. In my view the onus was on Helm
Godfrey to ensure the investment was appropriate to the degree of risk that had been
agreed, rather than rely on Mr Y to realise this might not be the case, on his own reading of
the Memorandum. The Information Memorandum was 57 pages long, and the fact that the
investment presented significant risks to capital was within the main body of the document.
The Memorandum didnt give a risk rating for the investment, and I dont think Mr Y ought
reasonably to have been alerted that the investment presented risks above what he
understood he had agreed to because he was given the Memorandum. Ive seen no
persuasive evidence that Mr Y was told the investment was outside of his risk category for
him to consider those risks and agree to them. In my view Mr Y would likely have relied on
Helm Godfrey to ensure the investment was aligned to the degree of risk Im satisfied had
been agreed, and I think he was entitled to rely on it.
Given all the risks that the investment presented as I set out in detail earlier above, my view
is that the degree of risk presented by the investment in itself, was greater than the balanced
to adventurous risk that Mr Y had agreed to take for this particular investment. So, I dont
think Helm Godfrey took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation met Mr Ys
investment objectives; it wasnt aligned with his preferences regarding risk taking. I dontthink Helm Godfrey had a reasonable basis for believing its recommendation for Mr Y to
invest in Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell was aligned to the degree of risk that Mr Y wanted to
take. Ultimately therefore, I dont think Helm Godfreys recommendation was suitable and it
didnt meet its obligations under COBS 9.
I also think the firm failed to meet its obligation under the regulators Principles 2 and 9.
For the reasons I set out above, I dont think Helm Godfrey made an adequate assessment
of Mr Ys expertise, experience and knowledge to give it reasonable assurance that Mr Y
was capable of making his own investment decision and the risks involved. And it went onto
recommend an investment that presented a higher degree of risk than Mr Y had agreed to
take. So I dont think Helm Godfrey conducted its business with the required skill care and
diligence; and it didnt take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. I think if it
had done it wouldnt have recommended that Mr Y invest in the Rejuvenation Mauritius Cell.
Given all the above, I said that my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ys complaint, 
and I thought Mr Ys losses flowed from Helm Godfreys failures in regard to the
Regulators Principles for Business and Conduct of Business Rules as I had described. I 
went on to set out how I thought Helm Godfrey should calculate and pay Mr Y fair 
compensation.
I asked both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. 
Helm Godfrey (through its representative) didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said, in 
summary:
On jurisdiction
Mr Y submitted a complaint letter dated 15 December 2016. He asserted the reason 
for his complaint was that;  the investment wasnt suitable for his circumstances 
because he was identified as a balanced investor not a very high risk one so the 
investment wasnt commensurate with his attitude to risk; and, at no time could he be 
categorised as a professional investor. Therefore the letter of complaint referred to 
the shortcomings in Helm Godfreys advice about Rejuvenation. This had been 
identified by Mr Ys new IFA in May 2011; that Mr Y had been wrongly assessed as a 
professional investor; and the IFA had doubts about the suitability of Rejuvenation. 
Helm Godfrey wrote to Mr Y in August 2014 confirming it had appointed a firm to 
prepare a report addressed to the FCA concerning UCIS advice given by Helm 
Godfrey. It said the report would address 1) the eligibility of investors to invest in 
UCIS 2) the suitability of the advice in the case of a sample of clients. The review 
didnt concern Rejuvenation or Mr Y specifically. And the letter gave no indication to 
Mr Y that his Rejuvenation investment or the UCIS the firm had been asked to review 
had been mis-sold. The second provisional decision on jurisdiction contained an 
apparent error of fact. It had said the firm appointed by Helm Godfrey to carry out the 
review hadnt reviewed the suitability of the investment. However it had reviewed Mr 
Ys case and concluded that (subject to anything the FCA had to say  as with all 
cases it reviewed), Mr Y had elected to be categorised as a professional investor, 
had accepted the risk of the Rejuvenation investment, and so Helm Godfrey wasnt 
required to offer him redress. 
Putting the error above aside, it said it didnt accept it could be reasonably said that 
Mr Ys failure to comply with the six-year time limit was a result of exceptional 
circumstances. Hed had over five years from the date when he knew, or should have 
known, that he had cause for complaint (in 2011), and over three years from when he received the 2013 statement in which to make a complaint. Even if Mr Y had delayed 
making a complaint whist the review was ongoing, hed already had over three years 
between learning that he had cause for complaint and being contacted by Helm 
Godfrey about the review. So the failure to comply with the six-year time limit was 
clearly not the result of exceptional circumstances.
If the review had made Mr Y aware of his cause for complaint for the first time, it 
could conceivably see how the delay in conducting the review could be said to have 
caused a delay in the making of the complaint. But this wasnt the position here. Mr Y 
had years to make a complaint from learning the basis of it.
No finding had been made that Mr Y had any intention of pursuing a complaint in July 
2014  before he was contacted about the review. It thought there was no doubt that 
the mailing about the review prompted a complaint which would not otherwise have 
been made, rather than delaying a complaint been made.
It was not the case that the complaint was delayed by the failure to notify Mr Y of the 
outcome of the review; this wasnt Mr Ys position, and was indeed contrary to his 
position. Mr Y had said, supported by his new IFA, that he had made a complaint in 
September 2014. Mr Y couldnt have been caused to delay making his complaint by 
the review as a matter of fact as he believed that he had already made a complaint. 
His letter of complaint concerned the outcome of the review and that wasnt a 
complaint that was within our jurisdiction.
On the merits of the complaint
Cap on loss
In my jurisdiction decision I had accepted that Mr Y had been aware that his new IFA had 
concerns about the suitability of the fund in May 2011 and that he ought reasonably to have 
become aware that had cause for complaint at that time. It said it was therefore unclear why 
I considered that Helm Godfrey was liable for losses after May 2011. It understood that the 
ombudsmans practice was to cap losses at the date a new adviser reviewed an investment 
complained about. It provided examples of other ombudsmans decisions made on that 
basis.
Misappropriations
The provisional decision didnt refer to the misappropriations from the Rejuvenation fund or 
the extent to which the fraud impacted on Mr Ys losses. It said it was unclear on what basis 
Helm Godfrey could be said to be liable for losses resulting from that fraud; losses which it 
clearly didnt cause and were wholly outside of its control.
Causation 
The provisional decision didnt address the issue of causation of the loss. It said it seemed 
inconceivable that Mr Y wouldnt have proceeded with the investment if he had been told it 
was adventurous. He was a very wealthy individual, the suitability letter referred to other 
adventurous investments he had made in the past, and Mr Y had approached Helm 
Godfreys adviser with certain non-mainstream investment proposals introduced to him by a 
third party. It thought Rejuvenation clearly appealed to Mr Y  it represented only 7% of the 
SIPPs value and 1% of his broader investments. It was accepted he could afford to take the 
risk and he was warned of the risks in the information provided to him. It thought Mr Y would 
have proceeded with the investment if hed been told it involved an adventurous risk. Mr Y said he had no further comments to make.
I sent a further provisional decision to both parties dated 10 December 2021. In summary, I 
said that Id considered the points about the merits of the complaint raised by Helm 
Godfreys representative following my provisional decision. And in response I said:
Cap on loss
I didnt agree that there should be a cap', as such. However, Id considered whether Mr Y 
could have sold the investment in May 2011 when the new IFA alerted him that it had 
concerns about suitability, and therefore limited his losses going forward. The suitability 
letter said:
There is likely to be an illiquid market in the shares and in such 
circumstances shareholders may find it difficult to realise their investment.
You should note that shares will not be redeemable until after the property is 
sold and will not be transferable other than in very limited circumstances.
The Information  Memorandum  said:
There  is no established  market  for interests  held by the Company.  The investment  is not 
quoted  or listed  on any recognised  stock  exchange  making  the assets  relatively  illiquid.  
In accordance  with the terms  in the Information  Memorandum  investments  in the 
Company  may not be cancelled  and interests  in the Company  are not freely  transferable  
or marketable.  Investment  is not suitable  as a medium  or short  term investment.
I said we had asked  the SIPP  provider  whether  it was possible  to sell the investment  
and it had said:
This was an illiquid investment from the outset in as much as shares were not traded on 
any recognised exchange and, as far as we know, there was no active secondary market. 
That said, we are aware of no reason why the investment couldnt have been sold privately 
subject to finding a willing buyer.
So I thought the investment was effectively illiquid from the start. And it seemed to me 
unlikely that a private buyer would want to invest in Rejuvenation knowing of the ongoing 
issues with it. My understanding was that the development company was put through an 
insolvency procedure in May/June 2011. And there was an ongoing threat of litigation from 
the person accused of taking money from the investment  one of the main people involved 
in the project.
I said the investment wasnt listed on a recognised market, and there was no active 
secondary market. So deciding what price might have been attractive to persuade a
private investor to buy the investment, despite its problems, wouldnt be straightforward.
I said in any event, my current view was that it was unlikely that Mr Y would have been able 
to sell the investment to a private buyer at that time. Therefore I didnt think there should be 
a cap (as referred to by Helm Godfrey), on Mr Ys losses.
Misappropriations
In Helm Godfreys advisers e-mail to investors dated 2 August 2014, when referring to the 
misappropriated funds, he mentioned a figure of £615,000 and said: In August 2009 I 
confronted [Mr A] over loans taken by him from the Development Company as a result of 
those conversations he confirmed that he had rectified any anomalies and he confirmed that there were no outstanding loans from the company and that he had repaid any that he had   
taken.
At the end of the year it was apparent that what we had been told not correct. Not only had 
the loans not been repaired but they were significantly larger than first disclosed. A figure 
of £615,000 was determined to be the correct figure. This figure appears in the audited 
accounts of March 2009 which are signed by [Mr A].
I said the adviser appeared to have been aware of the misappropriation issue in August 
2009. And that what hed been told by the person behind it was incorrect prior to advising Mr 
Y to invest in Rejuvenation. I thought the adviser had recommended that Mr Y invest in the 
fund despite knowing that issue hadnt been resolved. So I thought it was a known risk. I 
didnt think there was a break in the chain of causation, and I thought the losses flowed from 
the unsuitable advice.
Causation 
The adviser had carried out a risk profiling exercise and concluded that Mr Y came out as a 
score of 7 on a scale of 1-10. I thought Mr Ys answers to the risk questionnaire were 
consistent with that score. The Assess attitude to risk report said This questionnaire was 
completed with a particular product in mind. The suitability letter said that Mr Y had a 
balanced to adventurous attitude to investment risk. Again I thought this was consistent with 
the answers Mr Y had provided in the questionnaire.
I said for the reasons Id set out in detail in my provisional decision, I thought Mr Y had 
specifically agreed to take a balanced to adventurous degree of risk for this particular 
investment. And that Mr Y likely relied on Helm Godfrey to ensure the investment was 
aligned to the degree of risk it had said the investment presented, and that he had agreed to 
take.
I thought the contemporaneous evidence, in particular Mr Ys answers to the risk 
questionnaire, was consistent with Mr Y not wanting to invest in a speculative manner for 
this investment. So on balance, I said I didnt think Mr Y would have proceeded with the 
Rejuvenation investment if hed been clearly alerted to the degree of risk that it presented, 
and hed been told it wasnt suitable for the degree of risk hed said he was willing to take.
I said I therefore still intended to uphold Mr Ys complaint, and order Helm Godfrey Partners 
Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr Y as I had set out in my earlier provisional 
decision dated 10 September 2021. I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted to make. 
Mr Y said he had nothing further to add. 
Helm Godfrey (through its representative) responded to say, in summary, that Mr M, Helm 
Godfreys adviser responsible for the advice that was complained about, left Helm Godfrey in 
December 2010. However a current staff member who worked with Mr M at the time said 
that the issues about the fraud and the discovery of the unauthorised loans arose in the 
latter part of 2010. She recalled there had been a falling out between Mr M and the person 
responsible for the fraud (Mr A) and this was shortly before Mr M had left Helm Godfrey. 
Therefore Helm Godfrey thought there was a mistake in Mr Ms e-mail to investors dated 2 
August 2014  that Mr M had confronted the other party in August 2010 rather than in 
August 2009.
The investigator sent an e-mail to Helm Godfrey on my behalf on 7 January 2022, including 
a copy of an Affidavit from court proceedings in Mauritius. I said, as recorded under point 7 in the Affidavit, it appeared the disputed loans were arranged in 2008 and 2009, and there 
was a letter dated 14 October 2009 where the alleged fraudster (Mr A) had admitted this 
(albeit we didnt have a copy). But I said point 7.4 referred to a shareholder meeting held on 
15 February 2010 where the £615,000 was discussed. Given Mr Ms position (Helm 
Godfreys adviser) and his involvement with the fund, I thought it was highly unlikely this was 
all happening without his knowledge. The dates in the Affidavit were consistent with the 
dates referred to in Mr Ms e-mail of 2 August 2014 being more likely than not the correct 
dates. So I said I was satisfied that it was likely that Mr M was aware of the loans issue prior 
to advising Mr Y to invest in Rejuvenation.
I asked Helm Godfrey to provide any further evidence or arguments that it wanted to make 
about this issue to us by 14 January 2022. Helm Godfreys representative said it had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Ive considered whats fair and reasonable which is relevant in deciding 
the merits of the complaint. However in response to my provisional decision dated 10 
September 2021, Helm Godfrey, through its representative, said it still didnt agree that I had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. As I am required to do, I have kept the matter of 
jurisdiction under constant review, and have considered the further points that were raised. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that I have jurisdiction to consider the case.
Jurisdiction
Helm Godfrey said the second provisional decision on jurisdiction contained an apparent 
error of fact. Id said the firm appointed by Helm Godfrey to carry out the review hadnt 
reviewed the suitability of the investment  the error of fact. It said it had reviewed Mr Ys 
case and concluded that (subject to anything the FCA had to say  as with all cases it 
reviewed), Mr Y had elected to be categorised as a professional investor, had accepted the 
risk of the Rejuvenation investment, and so Helm Godfrey wasnt required to offer him 
redress. 
However I note the review invite letter dated 7 August 2014 had given some information 
about the reasons for the section 166 review and then said:
The Skilled Persons Report concerns advice given by Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd to 
participate in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes(UCIS). The Skilled Persons 
Report involves a review of 1) the eligibility of relevant investors to invest in UCIS and 2) the 
suitability of the advice on UCIS in the case of a sample of clients of Helm Godfrey Partners 
Ltd.
In June 2010 you effected an investment in the Rejuvenation Mauritius Fund, which is 
classified as a UCIS and your case is amongst the sample which [the firm appointed to carry 
out the review] is reviewing.
[The firm appointed to carry out the review] have assessed that you were eligible for UCIS 
promotion and the purpose of this letter is, therefore, to request information to assess the 
suitability of the advice for you to invest in UCIS.
Its my understanding that the firm hadnt reviewed the suitability of the investment - which 
was part two of the review as outlined above in its 7 August 2014 letter. Whilst this letter said it had assessed that Mr Y was eligible for UCIS, it didnt say this meant he had accepted the 
risks of Rejuvenation. And the letter specifically said the review was in two parts  the 
second being to review the suitability of the advice for a sample of clients  Mr Y being in 
that sample. 
As I said in my previous decision, the 7 August 2014 letter said that if Mr Y wanted the firm 
to review the suitability of the advice hed received he needed to complete the reply form. 
The purpose of the letter was to invite Mr Y to have the suitability of the advice reviewed. 
Mr Y completed and returned the reply form. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable 
for him to understand that the reviewing firm was going to review the suitability of the 
investment  thats what the letter said it would do. 
Its not entirely clear to me whether Helm Godfrey are saying that suitability (as in part 2 
above) was reviewed. Or if its referring to the review leading to the conclusion that Mr Y 
was assessed as being eligible for UCIS promotion. My understanding was that it wasnt in 
dispute that suitability (as in 2) hadnt been reviewed. However, even if suitability (as in 2) 
was reviewed, Mr Y wasnt sent an outcome of that review despite  as I explained in my 
previous decision - chasing Helm Godfrey for the outcome through his IFA. And as I said in 
my decision, the IFA wasnt told until November 2016 that Mr Ys case had not been 
reviewed as he had been deemed as a professional investor by [the reviewing firm], not 
subject to possible redress.
Whilst the 7 August 2014 letter may not have specifically said that it would inform Mr Y of the 
outcome of the review, as Mr Y was invited to have the advice reviewed and he accepted 
that invitation, I think hed have a reasonable expectation of being told of the outcome. But,
regardless of Mr Ys expectations, his new IFA had made multiple attempts to contact
Helm Godfrey for the review outcome. So Helm Godfrey should have been aware that Mr
Y was waiting for the review outcome. And when Mr Y was alerted to the firms position he 
complained.
Helm Godfrey has said my decision isnt consistent with Mr Ys own stated position  that he 
made a complaint in September 2014 (when returning the reply form for the review). So the 
review didnt cause a delay in the making of a complaint. 
I agree that Mr Ys position is that he made a complaint in September 2014. Either he did 
make a complaint at that time (albeit there is no record of it). Or he didnt. If he did make a 
complaint at that time, I dont think that is inconsistent with finding that the failure to alert Mr 
Y to the outcome of the review on suitability (or tell him it hadnt reviewed suitability) caused 
him to delay making the December 2016 complaint. Mr Y is unlikely to be familiar with the 
DIPS Rules and the associated implications of making a complaint at that time. Mr Y says he 
made a complaint in September 2014. But I dont think that would have stopped him making 
a further complaint following the outcome of the review.  He clearly made a complaint in 
December 2016 once he knew the firms position. For the reason I set out in my decision, Im 
satisfied that Mr Y was chasing the outcome of the review during that period. And on 
discovering that suitability hadnt been reviewed he made a complaint. 
I therefore think its more likely than not that if Mr Y had been alerted to the firms position on 
the review earlier he would also have complained earlier  this is consistent with his actions 
on discovering the firms position. So Im satisfied the firms failure to alert Mr Y to the 
outcome of the review delayed the making of his complaint. Given the firm clearly led Mr Y to 
believe it was reviewing suitability, I dont think he would have reasonably thought that he 
had to make a separate complaint about it at the same time  it was already being reviewed 
by a third party.On the one hand, as I set out in my earlier jurisdiction decision, I think Mr Y ought 
reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint in May 2011. So I accept 
the three-year window had already passed by the time that Mr Y received the review 
invitation letter dated 7 August 2014. 
However, Mr Y also had six years from the event complained about. The 7 August 2014 
letter was well within that six-year period. This letter alerted Mr Y that the third party 
reviewing the matter had assessed that he was eligible for UCIS promotion. But the letter 
also said suitability would be reviewed if Mr Y returned the reply form  which he did. So 
there was still the possibility the firm would make good Mr Ys losses following the third 
partys review of suitability. Therefore I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Y to wait to 
complain about both issues until hed found out the result of that review.
For the reasons Ive given above and in my earlier decisions, Im satisfied that Mr Y delayed 
making his December 2016 complaint because of Helm Godfreys failure to alert him to the 
outcome of its review of suitability (or tell him it hadnt reviewed suitability).  Whether or not 
the August 2014 letter prompted the complaint  it clearly brought the matter to Mr Ys mind 
in September 2014 whether hed previously been thinking about it or not; he returned the 
reply form, effectively accepting the offer of a review. Mr Y still had around 18 months 
remaining before the six-year limit expired. For the reasons Ive given, I think Mr Y 
understood, reasonably, that he had no need to complain during this period as the issue of 
suitability was  apparently - already being reviewed by a third-party reviewer. Mr Ys IFA 
was chasing the outcome on his behalf  so Helm Godfrey ought to have been aware that 
Mr Y was waiting for an outcome even if the 7 August 2014 letter didnt say he would receive 
one. 
I think if Mr Y had been told the firms position on the matter during that period, he would 
more likely than not have complained on being alerted to it - as he did in December 2016. I 
think the firms actions directly caused Mr Y to delay making his complaint.
As I said in my decision on jurisdiction dated 1 March 2021, the DISP rules provide for the 
ombudsman to decide if the failure to comply with the relevant time limits was, in his view, as 
a result of exceptional circumstances. In my view, for the reasons I have outlined, I think Mr 
Ys failure to comply with the time limits was a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr Ys letter of complaint to the firm dated 15 December 2016 did refer to the firms review. 
And then he went onto say, amongst other things:
It is only recently they [his IFA] have been informed that my file was not reviewed and no 
response would be forthcoming.
And then: 
As a result of this I have no other choice but to register a formal complaint regarding the 
sale of the Rejuvenation Mauritius Fund in June 2010.
The reason for my complaint is that the investment was not suitable for my circumstances 
because. 
Mr Y went onto outline the reasons for his complaint. 
Im satisfied that Mr Y was complaining about the original advice to invest in Rejuvenation 
that hed been given in 2010, rather than merely the outcome of the review. The advice to 
invest was a regulated activity, and a complaint about it is something that I can consider. Merits 
Helm Godfreys representative raised a number of points about the merits of the complaint in 
response to my provisional decision dated 10 September 2021. I responded to those points 
in my second provisional decision dated 10 December 2021, and e-mail dated 7 January 
2022 as set out above. In summary, for the reasons given in those documents:
I dont think there should be a cap on the losses as from May 2011. I think it was 
unlikely that Mr Y would have been able to sell the investment and limit the losses 
from it.
I think its more likely than not that Helm Godfreys adviser was aware of the 
misappropriation issue prior to advising Mr Y to invest in Rejuvenation. So I think it 
was a known risk, and there wasnt a break in the chain of causation. I consider Mr 
Ys losses flow from Helm Godfreys failures in regard to the Regulators Principles 
for Business and Conduct of Business Rules as I have described.
I dont think Mr Y would have proceeded with the Rejuvenation investment if hed 
been clearly alerted to the degree of risk that it presented, and hed been told it 
wasnt suitable for the degree of risk hed said he was willing to take. I think Helm 
Godfreys failings did cause the losses that Mr Y has claimed.
Taking all the above into account, Im upholding Mr Ys complaint.
Putting things right
I order that Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd calculates and pays compensation to Mr Y on the 
following basis:
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr Y as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. Its not 
possible to say precisely what Mr Y would have done, but Im satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ys circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
what should Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd do?
To compensate Mr Y fairly, Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd should compare the performance of 
Mr Ys investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd should pay into Mr Ys pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd shouldnt pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ys pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Ys actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
I think Mr Y is likely to be a higher rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the higher rate of tax (40%). However, if Mr Y would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Investment 
name Status BenchmarkFrom 
(start date)To
(end
date)Additional interest
Rejuvenation 
Mauritius Cell.still exists The FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Balanced 
total return 
indexDate of 
investmentDate of 
decision8% simple a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement if 
settlement isnt 
made within 
28 days of
Helm Godfrey Partners 
Ltd being 
notified of
Mr Ys 
acceptance of 
this decision
In addition, Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd should:
Pay Mr Y £300 for the distress Im satisfied the matter has caused him. Although Mr 
Y was a wealthy individual the £100,000 invested was still a significant amount. I 
think the loss of a large part of that investment was likely to cause a degree of 
distress to Mr Y. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mr Y in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr Y how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr Y a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual value of the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market) it may be difficult to find its actual value. So the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd may wish to require that Mr Y provides an undertaking to pay it 
any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt from the pension plan. 
Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with 
the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other 
distribution out of it should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so 
it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr Y wanted capital growth and was willing to accept a higher than average amount 
of investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Balanced total return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK and international equities and also 
some government and corporate bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take a higher than average risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Fair compensation should be calculated as I have set out above. My decision is that Helm 
Godfrey Partners Ltd should pay Mr Y the amount produced by that calculation  up to a 
maximum of £150,000 plus interest.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd pays Mr Y the balance.
This recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd 
doesnt have to do what I recommended. Its unlikely that Mr Y could accept a final decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr Y might want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept a final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman