DRN-2895322
The complaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) is holding her responsible for damage 
caused to a courtesy car she received after making a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Mrs M is represented in this matter by her husband, Mr M, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ms car was taken for repairs and she was provided with a courtesy car. Whilst driving 
this car, Mr M heard a bang. An engine cover had come off and a temporary repair was 
made. The hire company made a claim to UKI. UKI said the damage wasnt due to wear and 
tear, but due to impact. And it held Mr M responsible. 
Mr M disagreed, but UKI said he had signed the pre-hire handover sheet that the car wasnt 
damaged when he collected it. UKI recorded a fault claim, reduced Mrs Ms No Claims 
Discount (NCD), and sought to recover the £350 policy excess from them. Mr M said their 
premium had also increased at renewal. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
unfair for UKI to rely on the handover sheet as she thought consumers wouldnt be able to 
inspect under the car. She thought there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that Mr M had 
most likely caused the damage. So she thought UKI should change the claim to non-fault, 
restore the NCD, stop pursuing the policy excess, and refund any increase in premiums. 
UKI replied that it thought the damage to the car, if present beforehand, would have been 
visible without the need for bending down. It said photographs taken after the hire showed 
that the number plate was also damaged suggesting an impact. UKI asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M disagrees that he caused the damage to the car. He thought this must 
have been pre-existing. And so he thought it was unfair for UKI to hold him responsible for 
this. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs M to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs M has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. In coming to its decision, the evidence UKI relied on 
was the handover sheet, the repairing engineers report, photographs taken after the hire, 
and its engineers view. 
I can see that the repairing engineers report states that there had been an impact from the 
centre front to the centre rear of the car. Repairs were needed to the front number plate, the 
bumper, the engine cover and the intercooler. The report doesnt suggest how this might 
have occurred. 
UKI said there was no evidence to dispute that the damage to the car had been caused 
during the hire. It said the damage to the car was visible from the front. Its engineer said this 
had been caused by an impact. And it said Mr M had signed the handover sheet agreeing 
that there was no damage present when he collected the car.
UKI said the damage would have been visible on a walkaround. And it relied on the 
repairers photographs as evidence. But I dont think its fair or reasonable for UKI to rely on 
the handover sheet to state that the car was undamaged when it was collected by Mr M. 
This is because of the location of some of the damage, under the car. And also because 
some damage would have been hidden. 
The photograph of the damage beneath the car was taken from very low down. And I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Mr M to have looked beneath the car for damage. 
UKI said the number plate was warped and I can see that it was replaced. But I cant see 
from the photographs that any damage is immediately evident. The photograph taken to 
show that the plate was bent is taken from looking directly down at it. And I think its unfair 
for UKI to expect Mr M to have taken this level of care in inspecting the car before the hire. 
The repairer replaced the front bumper and trim and the intercooler which had a hole in it. 
But I cant see that UKI has explained how these may have been damaged or that they were 
evident before the car was stripped down. So I cant say that Mr M should have noted this 
damage when he inspected the car before hire. 
I also think there are some concerns in UKIs investigation of the claim. Mr M exchanged the 
car after two days. The hire sheet says that in this time the car had been driven almost 4,000 
miles, which I think is highly improbable. 
And I can see that the mileage on the cars odometer on its return is different to what is 
recorded on the car hirers invoice. In its review of the complaint, UKI said Mr M had had the 
car for 10 days. But the car had to be replaced after the second day of hire. 
So, whilst theres no doubt the car had damage, I dont think UKI has shown that Mr M was 
likely to have caused it rather than that it was pre-existing. I think it was unfair for UKI to rely 
on the handover sheet to say that the damage would have been noted if it was pre-existing. I 
think UKI paid the claim without sufficient investigation. And so I think it was unfair for UKI to 
hold Mr M at fault for the claim. 
The impact on Mrs M and Mr M has been that their NCD has been affected, theyve been 
asked to pay the policy excess and they think their premium was affected at renewal due to 
the fault claim. And so I think UKI should put this right. Mr M also asked for consideration of 
the stress and time spent on this matter. But I think dealing with any claim and complaint 
involves a certain amount of inconvenience and upset. And so I dont think UKI needs to pay 
him compensation for this.
 Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Change the record of the claim from fault to non-fault and restore the affected NCD.
2. If the premium was affected due to the fault claim, the difference should be refunded, on 
production of reasonable evidence of this.
3. Stop pursuing Mrs M for the payment of the policy excess. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman