DRN-3504334
The complaint
Mr A has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling and settlement of a 
claim he made for an escape of water at his home.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022, explaining that I was intending 
to partially uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
There has been extensive background to this complaint as the claim has been 
ongoing since 2020. I dont intend to repeat the full history of the claim here. Instead, 
Ill focus on what I believe to be the key issues, based on the evidence and 
arguments I have seen, which still remain in dispute. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to either side, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role within it.
Mr As property suffered an escape of water in September 2020. The escape of water 
caused extensive damage, and repairs required the removal of flooring in various 
parts of the property and full removal of the bathroom. Due to this, Mr A and his 
family were put into alternative accommodation whilst repair works were being 
completed by UKIs contractor.
There have been several disagreements during the claim over the works completed 
or items of contents included in the claim. Most of these issues are now resolved. But 
Mr A remains unhappy that:
UKI paid a cash settlement for his kitchen worktop based on its contractors 
rates, despite its contractor refusing to do the works. This cash settlement 
also didnt account for the fact that the worktop couldnt be removed without 
causing damage to his kitchen. Mr A has now replaced his kitchen in its 
entirety and wants UKI to reimburse his costs.
UKI ended his alternative accommodation at short notice on several 
occasions, forcing him to take time off work and move his family from one 
place to another, which was stressful  particularly given one of his childrens 
health issues. Mr A would like UKI to compensate him for the impact of UKIs 
poor organisation, including reimbursing two days lost earnings.
During repairs, UKI were supposed to remove and replace a floorboard which 
ran beneath the wall adjoining the bedroom and bathroom. This floorboard 
had suffered cracking and mould damage as a result of the escape of water. 
Mr A says this is causing health issues for himself and his family. 
Mr A says a further floorboard was cut into during repairs and subsequently 
wedged back in place rather than being properly replaced. He says this 
floorboard has now slipped from its wedge and is resting on a water pipe. Mr 
A says this is both a hazard, in terms of a risk of a further escape of water 
from the pipes, and an inconvenience as he can hear the floorboard rattle the 
pipes when it is stepped on. 
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint. She addressed most of the 
above complaint points, alongside others which Mr A has since confirmed have now 
been resolved, such as reimbursement of unpaid hotel costs or missing items of 
contents. In terms of the above issues, which remain in dispute, she concluded that:
It was fair for UKI to restrict its settlement, for damage to the kitchen, to just 
the cost of replacing the worktop. But she said UKI needed to ensure the 
cash settlement paid was equal to the amount it would cost Mr A to replace 
the worktop, rather than the discounted rates available to UKI. She also said 
that UKI should be prepared to consider any evidence supplied by Mr A that 
his kitchen suffered unavoidable damage due to the removal or replacement 
of the worktop. But UKI says no evidence of this nature has been supplied.
For one of the damaged floorboards, she said UKIs position was that it had 
been lifted by Mr As own contractor, rather than being damaged by its 
contractor. But she said UKI had agreed to replace the floorboards in the 
schedule of works, which she felt was fair.
Alternative accommodation wasnt arranged for long enough for Mr As home 
to become habitable. As a result of this Mr A and his family were moved 
multiple times, and at short notice. There were also communication issues 
between Mr A, UKI and the contractors which meant Mr A was doing a lot of 
unnecessary chasing. UKI had already paid £750 compensation for mistakes, 
delays and service issues, but she thought it would be fair for a further £500 
compensation to be paid.
Neither side accepted our investigators recommendations. So, because no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im minded to reach a similar outcome to that reached by our 
investigator, but for slightly different reasons. For ease of reference, Ill address the 
separate complaint points in turn.
Kitchen damage 
Its not in dispute that the escape of water caused damage to Mr As kitchen worktop. 
UKI has paid Mr A a cash settlement for this aspect of his claim. But Mr A says that 
in removing the worktop, further damage would be caused to various areas of the 
kitchen. He also says that his kitchen suite has been discontinued, which meant he 
has been forced to replace the kitchen in its entirety. He wants UKI to cover these 
costs.UKI says Mr As kitchen was in a poor state of repair before the claim. It says none of 
the units were damaged by the escape of water either. Based on this, it considered it 
fair to pay a cash settlement for removal and replacement of the worktop only.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy set out how UKI can settle a claim:
How we settle claims
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in [Section 1], we will 
either:
 repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
 pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
 make a cash payment
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your 
suppliers or make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have 
cost us using our suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be 
lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
If we cannot repair or rebuild the damaged part, we will pay the full cost of 
rebuild or repair.
If the damage to the buildings isnt repaired or rebuilt, we may pay the 
difference between the market value of your property immediately before the 
damage and its value after the damage.
We may take off an amount for wear and tear if the buildings were not in a 
good state of repair at the time of the damage.
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions alongside the reports and photos of 
the condition of the kitchen. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the kitchen 
units werent damaged by the escape of water. Im also satisfied that they were in a 
generally poor condition as UKI has said. So, I dont consider it unfair for UKI to 
decide to settle this element of the claim by a cash settlement for the worktop only.
That said, I can see that the cash settlement it paid was based on the discounted 
rates provided by its contractor. UKI says this is in line with the terms of the policy. 
But as an ombudsman Im not bound by the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Rather, Im required to decide what is fair and reasonable, taking everything into 
account. 
In situations like this, where it is the insurer who insists on settling a claim (or 
element of a claim) by cash, our service has a longstanding approach that it is unfair 
for the insurer to settle at the discounted rates it can obtain. This is because those 
discounted rates are not available to the policyholder. Had UKI been prepared to do 
the works, and Mr A insisted on a cash settlement, then I would consider it fair for 
UKI to restrict the value of the cash settlement. But that isnt what happened here. 
So, Im minded to decide that UKI needs to recalculate the value of the cash 
settlement for the kitchen worktop, based on the rates available to Mr A, and to pay 
Mr A the difference plus interest.In terms of Mr As wish for UKI to reimburse him for a full replacement kitchen, I dont 
think this would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because I 
havent seen any evidence which persuades me the kitchen was damaged by the 
escape of water, or that the worktop couldnt be removed and refitted to the existing 
carcases. I note that UKIs contractor said they wouldnt replace the worktop 
themselves as they wouldnt be prepared to provide a guarantee owing to the pre-
existing condition of the kitchen carcases. But this isnt the same as it not being 
possible to replace the worktop upon the existing carcases. 
I have also seen that UKI has offered to pay to replace the splashback as it accepts 
this would likely have been damaged during removal of the worktop. I consider this to 
be a fair offer, subject to the amount being reviewed in line with what Ive said about 
the cash settlement above.
Should Mr A be able to evidence further, unavoidable, damage being caused to the 
kitchen during removal of the worktop, I would expect UKI to consider this.
Floorboards
There are two floorboards which Mr A has concerns with. Ill address them 
separately.
Mr A is unhappy that a water damaged floorboard running beneath the bathroom and 
a bedroom hasnt been replaced. He says the floorboard was mouldy and cracked 
and that his family are suffering from health issues due to it remaining in place. He 
has provided several photos and a video which he took before the flooring and carpet 
was replaced, which he says shows that the floorboard was still mouldy and was 
cracked.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments provided about this issue. From the 
photos and video provided I can see that the floorboard in question did suffer 
significant water damage as its stained. But I cant see that the floorboard is cracked 
or in any way structurally unsound. And whilst I can see the water stains, I dont think 
this is the same as mould still being present.
I dont doubt Mr As assertion that he and his family are suffering from allergies. But 
allergies can have many causes, so this alone doesnt persuade me that the 
floorboard left in situ was still mouldy. That said, I fully appreciate Mr As concerns 
and accept that its possible the floorboard is still mouldy and is the cause of the 
allergies reported. So, if Mr A were to lift the carpet and flooring and demonstrate, 
through the opinion of an expert, that there is active mould on and around the 
floorboard, I would expect UKI to remedy this (or cover the cost of doing so) including 
covering Mr As costs in lifting the existing flooring and obtaining the expert opinion. 
However, I would not expect UKI to cover Mr As costs if this investigation doesnt 
evidence that there is active mould.
Mr A has raised concerns about a second floorboard, which he says needed to be 
partially cut in order to repair the leak. Mr A says UKI were to replace this floorboard, 
but instead wedged it in place. He says the wedge has failed and the floorboard now 
rests directly onto water pipes, which is both a hazard and annoying, as he can hear 
the floorboard rattle the pipes when walking on it.
UKI has provided comments from its contractor on this point:The full floor board (sic) was lifted and replaced and additional dwangs and 
fixing fitted and then inspected by myself see image and annotation on file 
highlighting no squeaks to floorboard, in my considered opinion this has been 
lifted and put back down by someone most probably to check the condition of 
the mould and the affects (sic) on the treatments applied to the timbers
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said on this issue. Based on 
the comments and photos from the contractor Im persuaded that the floorboard was 
replaced in its entirety, as opposed to being wedged in place as suggested by Mr A. 
But while I think the contractors opinion that it has subsequently been lifted again by 
Mr As contractor is plausible, Im mindful that there is no real evidence to suggest 
that this happened. And it doesnt seem to be in dispute that the floorboard is now 
squeaking. So, its clear something has gone wrong, its just unclear why that is.
UKIs contractor has offered to inspect the floorboard and, if necessary, refix it. But 
the offer is conditional upon Mr A having the carpet lifted and subsequently refixed at 
his own cost. Taking into account the particular circumstances here, I think this is a 
fair compromise. However if, once Mr A has had the floorboard exposed, it becomes 
clear that it wasnt replaced by UKIs contractor as stated, UKI should cover the costs 
incurred by Mr A in lifting and relaying the carpet, in addition to refixing and/or 
replacing the floorboard.
Service issues
UKI has accepted that the level of service it provided to Mr A fell short on a number 
of occasions. This included missing various items of contents when listing items to be 
replaced and failing to notify Mr A that the contractor wouldnt be attending on a 
particular day, which led to the alternative accommodation needing to be extended. 
In addition, when refitting the bathroom suite, items werent appropriately sealed, in 
the first instance, which resulted in a further escape of water. And the bathroom door 
wasnt secured appropriately and became dislodged while his young child was using 
the toilet. UKI has offered £150 and £600 as compensation for these issues during 
the course of the claim. As I understand it, Mr A never accepted or received the 
£150, but he has received the £600.
Our investigator felt that UKIs communication and organisation around Mr As 
alternative accommodation arrangements ought to have been better. She highlighted 
that Mr A, and his family (including his child who this severely impacted) were moved 
multiple times, including occasions at relatively short notice. She didnt think the 
compensation already paid went far enough to compensate Mr A for the impact of 
UKIs errors here. So, she recommended UKI should pay an additional £500.
UKI has accepted that its communication and organisation could have been better. 
But it feels the compensation already paid is sufficient. It has highlighted that there 
was never an occasion where it left Mr A or his family without alternative 
accommodation. But it accepts he was asked to move on several occasions.
Mr A has said that due to being given short notice to vacate alternative 
accommodation he lost out on two days earnings at c.£400 per day. He wants UKI to 
increase the compensation paid to cover these losses.Ive thought carefully about everything which has been said regarding these issues. 
Having done so, Im minded to agree with Mr A, and our investigator, that the 
compensation already offered/paid by UKI doesnt go far enough in the 
circumstances. However, Im also not intending to direct UKI to reimburse Mr A 
specifically for his lost earnings. Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, the £150 compensation offer related specifically to the missed 
contents issue and the £600 related to one particular instance of a contractor not 
turning up, which meant the alternative accommodation needed to be extended, as 
well as the bathroom issues. However, in my view, these werent the only instances 
of poor customer service. 
Mr A had made UKI aware of his familys needs, yet he was required to move 
accommodation on several occasions, due to works overrunning. While works 
overrunning isnt necessarily avoidable, or within UKIs control, I would have 
expected it to maintain better oversight of the progress of the works, in order to 
minimise any disruption to Mr A and his family. This didnt happen, and I think the 
impact to Mr A and his family was likely more significant than it might have been to 
others in different circumstances. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about how UKI 
should put things right.
Im aware that Mr A wants UKI to reimburse him for lost earnings because of the 
short notice he was given. He says he could have booked the day off work if 
communication from UKI had been better, which would have prevented him from 
losing out on this money. Ive thought about this, and I agree that the communication 
and organisation from UKI fell short. But while I can see there were occasions where 
he was given short deadlines to vacate accommodations, I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence that these short deadlines were the sole cause of Mr A losing 
out on earnings. So, Im not currently intending to direct UKI to cover these alleged 
losses. However, should Mr A be able to evidence these losses, and show that he 
only suffered these losses because of UKIs errors, then I would expect UKI to 
consider this further. 
Taking everything into account, Im currently minded to direct UKI to pay Mr A an 
additional £500 compensation for the impact of its errors. This is in addition to the 
£150 and £600 already offered/paid. So, if the £150 hasnt been paid, as Mr A 
suggests, UKI should also pay this amount.
I said I was intending to direct UKI to pay Mr A an additional £500 compensation and to pay 
the £150 compensation already offered, if it hadnt yet done so. I also said I was intending to 
direct UKI to recalculate the settlement it paid for the kitchen worktop and splashback, based 
on rates which would have been available to Mr A, and to pay him the difference plus 
interest. And finally, I said UKI should be prepared to reconsider its position on the kitchen, 
floorboard and loss of earnings issues, subject to any further evidence being supplied by 
Mr A.
I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to say it accepted my provisional conclusions.
Mr A responded with some additional points for me to consider. In summary he said:
He has provided evidence that his kitchen was in a good state of repair other than 
the unit which he says was damaged by the escape of water.His kitchen units were damaged during removal, but he has disposed of them, so he 
doesnt know what he can provide to evidence this.
He needed to vacate temporary accommodation at short notice, while his wife was 
mourning the death of a relative and his children were at school. This required two 
days off work, which could have been avoided if UKI had managed things better.
He provided a photo showing the split in the floorboard running beneath the 
bathroom and bedroom.
He provided email chains to show he has been mentioning the creaking floorboard in 
the bedroom since it was installed. He says there was an agreement for the 
contractor to correct the issues before the carpet was laid, but that didnt happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments and evidence supplied in response to 
my provisional decision. Ill respond to each in turn.
Kitchen
Mr A says hes provided photos to show the kitchen was in good condition, other than the 
unit he says was damaged by the escape of water.
The unit in question does show signs of water damage, so I asked UKI to provide further 
comments from its loss adjuster explaining why their view was that this damage wasnt 
considered to relate to the insured event. To summarise, they said in their opinion, based on 
extensive experience, the damage was not consistent with a one-off escape of water event. 
They said the worktop and units have a laminate finish which repels water and the amount of 
swelling noted at the time was way beyond what would be expected from the event in 
question. They said some of the units had doors hanging off, the drawer blank worn away 
and the worktop rotted, which supports the view that the damage wasnt caused by a one-off 
event.
I havent seen any photos to support the comments regarding unit doors hanging off. But I 
have seen photos which do show significant swelling of units and rotting of the worktop. Ive 
also seen photos of swollen units in a different part of the kitchen, away from the escape of 
water. Taking these into account, alongside the comments and conclusions of the loss 
adjuster, Im persuaded, on balance, that the damage reported was not caused by the 
escape of water. So, my provisional finding on this point, that UKI doesnt need to pay for a 
replacement kitchen, remains unchanged.
Mr A has also explained that parts of his kitchen were damaged, unavoidably, during 
removal. He says the damaged units have been disposed of, so hes asked what evidence 
he can provide to UKI to demonstrate this.It isnt for me to set out what evidence will, or wont, be adequate for UKI to amend its 
position. Although, I would highlight that the fact Mr A has disposed of the damaged parts of 
the kitchen is likely not going to be helpful to his case. Some examples of other information 
which could help him prove his case include photos or videos taken during removal of the 
kitchen which evidence the damage which Mr A says was caused when the units were 
removed. 
In any event, as I said in my provisional decision, I would expect UKI to consider any 
evidence Mr A is able to provide in support of his position. Should Mr A provide some 
evidence and remain unhappy with UKIs conclusions, following receipt of that evidence, he 
may be able to raise those concerns as a new complaint. 
Loss of earnings
As stated in my provisional decision, I agree that the organisation and communication from 
UKI fell short, so I accept Mr A likely needed to be available at very short notice to move 
from one place to another. But I havent seen any evidence of the losses Mr A says he 
incurred nor anything to show that any alleged losses were incurred solely as a result of 
UKIs actions.
Again, I would expect UKI to consider any evidence Mr A can supply to demonstrate that he 
actually lost out on the amounts he suggests, on the dates he suggests, solely because of 
UKI. But based on everything Ive seen; I make no award for Mr As alleged loss of earnings 
as part of this decision.
As with the kitchen issue, should Mr A provide UKI with evidence to support his position 
here, and remain unhappy with its conclusions following receipt of that evidence, he may be 
able to raise a new complaint.
Floorboards
Mr A has provided a photo which shows a crack in the chipboard floorboard which runs 
beneath the wall separating the bathroom and bedroom. This is the same floorboard which 
UKI says was treated for mould  which Mr A disputes.
UKI has provided further comments, from its loss adjuster, on the crack. It says that an 
escape of water would not cause a chipboard floorboard to crack. So, they say the crack 
must be pre-existing, or cut out (by Mr A or his contractor) to access something below.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the crack was most likely caused 
by the escape of water. I say this because, like the loss adjuster, I dont think a crack is 
consistent with the way water would generally damage chipboard.
However, in my provisional decision I said I wasnt persuaded that this floorboard was still 
suffering from active mould. I said that if Mr A felt it was, he should instruct an expert to 
access the floorboard and produce a report supporting his position. Should he do this, I said 
I would expect UKI to cover the costs of repairing the damage and Mr As costs in obtaining 
an expert report. As the cause of the crack is disputed, I think this could also be a fair way of 
determining how it happened. 
So, if Mr A decides to follow through with my suggestion, and the evidence he obtains 
confirms that either there is active mould or that the crack is as a result of the escape of 
water, then UKI should cover the costs of repairing the damage and reimburse Mr As costs 
in exposing the floorboard and obtaining the expert report.But as things currently stand, I havent seen sufficient evidence to support that the escape of 
water, or UKI, are responsible for carrying out further work to this floorboard. So, Im not 
directing it to take any further action, until such time as Mr A presents it with further evidence 
in support of his position.
In terms of the second floorboard, Mr A has provided further comments supporting that he 
has been complaining about it squeaking since it was installed. Ive considered this carefully. 
But Ive also seen annotated photos from the point the floorboard was allegedly replaced, 
which state that it wasnt squeaking at that point. 
Taking everything into account, I maintain my provisional finding on this point. That is that its 
reasonable for Mr A to bear the cost of lifting the carpet and exposing the floorboard to allow 
UKIs contractor access to inspect and potentially repair it (which it has offered to do as a 
gesture of goodwill.)
However if, once Mr A has had the floorboard exposed, it can be evidenced that it wasnt 
replaced by UKIs contractor at the time, as he has stated, UKI should cover the costs 
incurred by Mr A in lifting and relaying the carpet, in addition to refixing and/or replacing the 
floorboard.
Remainder of complaint
No further comments were raised regarding the awards I provisionally concluded were fair in 
the circumstances. So, in the absence of further comments or evidence, I maintain those 
provisional conclusions, for the reasons already stated.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr As 
complaint in part. 
U K Insurance Limited must:
Recalculate the cash settlement for the kitchen worktop and splashback based on 
rates available to Mr A, and pay him the difference plus 8% simple interest* on that 
difference in amount. This should be paid from the date UKI paid the incorrect cash 
settlement, to the date it makes the increased settlement payment.
Pay Mr A the £150 compensation offered in the March 2021 final response letter  if 
it hasnt done so already.
Pay Mr A an additional £500 compensation.
In addition, U K Insurance Limited should be prepared to review its position on the kitchen, 
floorboard and loss of earnings issues should Mr A provide further evidence in support of his 
position.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman