DRN-3104740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) hasnt 
accepted a claim under their home insurance policy for an escape of water. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr and Mrs W noticed a water mark on their kitchen ceiling. Their bathroom is 
directly above the kitchen. They didnt contact RSA until mid-September as Mrs W was 
shielding due to Covid-19.
RSA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. He reported back to RSA that the damage had 
been caused by the natural breakdown of materials in the shower above the kitchen ceiling. 
He told Mr and Mrs W they should get a plumber to find the cause of the leak and fix it. Then 
they should send the plumbers report to RSA so that it could check whether the claim was 
covered by their policy. 
Mrs W complained about the surveyor. She also said she didnt want to get the leak fixed 
unless RSA would confirm that the claim would be accepted.
Mr and Mrs W complained to RSA about the way their claim had been handled. They said 
their floor joist was creaking and they didnt feel safe using the shower.
They brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
RSA had treated them unfairly. 
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive looked at photos and a video of the damage.
Not all damage to a home is covered by the sort of home insurance policy Mr and Mrs W 
have. Only damage caused by one of the insured perils (events)  such as fire, flood, theft, 
escape of water etc  is covered. If it can be shown that loss or damage has been caused 
by one of the events listed in the policy, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can 
show one of the policy exclusions can be applied to defeat the claim.
So far as water leaks are concerned, Mr and Mrs Ws policy covered them for loss or 
damage caused by Water escaping from washing machines or dishwashers, fixed water or 
fixed heating systems.
Although in this case it seems the water was coming from a fixed water system (the 
shower), the policy excludes damage resulting directly or indirectly from wear and tear and 
also damage that happens gradually.
RSAs surveyor thought the damage had been caused by the failure of sealant and grout in 
the shower. I havent seen any evidence to the contrary. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs W, I 
think the damage as described can be said to have been caused by something excluded 
under the terms of their policy, namely wear and tear and/or damage happening gradually.
It follows that I dont think RSA has treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly in refusing to consider 
their claim further without evidence that the damage was caused by something covered by 
their policy. I appreciate that the damage to their kitchen and bathroom must have caused 
Mr and Mrs W a great deal of trouble and upset but despite my natural sympathy for their 
situation I cant fairly require RSA to settle a claim that isnt covered by the policy terms.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman