DRN-2519639
The complaint
Mr E has complained about HSBC UK Bank Plc returning a payment that had been sent to 
him in error.
What happened
Mr Es employer sent an extra payment to him by mistake. HSBC, as the receiving bank, 
paid this into Mr Es account.
The employer made a recall request. HSBC sent Mr E a letter informing him theyd take the 
money back. But this didnt arrive until after theyd returned the payment.
Mr E complained. He acknowledged that he wasnt supposed to have received the payment, 
but felt HSBC had effectively stolen from him. He wanted the money back so he could repay 
his employer in instalments instead.
HSBC felt theyd acted fairly, but later offered £150 compensation as they hadnt given Mr E 
sufficient notice. Our investigator looked into things independently and thought £200 was a 
more appropriate amount for the lack of notice, but otherwise found HSBC had acted 
correctly in returning the money.
Mr E didnt agree. He felt around £5,000 to £10,000 was more appropriate. He said that in 
order to make up for the lost funds hed worked extra hours, which had made him ill, and it 
had caused him to break up with a partner. He also asked for a public apology, and interest 
on the lost money. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I can appreciate why Mr E may have found it upsetting to suddenly have an amount taken 
out of his account, and I understand his feelings about the matter.
Ultimately though, I do need to clarify that this was money which never should have been 
paid to Mr E in the first place. It was not his money, and HSBC acted correctly by returning it 
to its proper owner. And there was sufficient money left in Mr Es account afterwards. So 
I dont think HSBC did anything wrong there.
It follows that I do not think HSBC need to return any of this money to Mr E. I also do not 
think they should pay him any interest on it, as it was never his money to begin with.
I understand Mr E had some issues with the wording of the terms and conditions. To clarify, 
HSBC were entitled to return this money under the terms. Further, we look at things based 
on whats fair  not just on whats in the terms and conditions. Since this money was paid to 
Mr E by mistake, I think its fair that HSBC returned it to its rightful owner.
I agree that HSBC should have given Mr E better notice. Though even if theyd contacted 
him earlier, they still would need to have returned the money to his employer. Indeed, if 
things had gone as they should have from the start, Mr E would never have received the 
money in the first place. So I dont think HSBC are responsible for the other losses that Mr E 
set out. I cant see that those losses were directly caused by HSBC doing anything wrong. 
I can see that the lack of notice caused him some distress though, so I agree with our 
investigator that HSBC should put that right.
I understand Mr E would like a formal apology from HSBC. Its not an unusual thing to ask 
for. The problem is that if I were to tell HSBC to apologise, then their apology would seem 
forced, and not genuine  theyd only be saying sorry because I told them to. I dont think 
thats a good way to resolve the dispute.
Instead of telling businesses to apologise, we often tell them to pay compensation, to 
recognise that the business got something wrong. When it comes to the amount Id award, 
its worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints, and not to issue large fines 
or punish businesses.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. The only thing I think HSBC got wrong here is that they didnt give Mr E sufficient 
notice, and this caused him some distress. I agree with our investigator that £200 is fair 
compensation to put that right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I agree with our investigator that HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
pay Mr E £200 compensation in total.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman