DRN-2664499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Brewin Dolphin Limited (BD) did not manage a stock held within 
their account effectively which led to a fall in its value.
Mr and Mrs M also complain about this line of stock being transferred to another service at 
BD and the transfer out of their portfolio to another provider.
Mr and Mrs M would like to be compensated for the loss they say they sustained on the sale 
of their shares.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a discretionary account with BD which was opened in May 2017. The 
source of funds provided to BD included shares which Mrs M inherited from her mother and 
this included a substantial holding in a company that I will call Company A.
Although Mr and Mrs M held a discretionary account with BD, they wished to have the final 
say on any disposal of shares in Company A. The adviser responsible for managing the 
account was uncomfortable that Company A formed a large part of their portfolio and wished 
to sell the shareholding to reduce exposure, but Mr and Mrs M declined to follow that advice. 
BD sent Mr and Mrs M an email on 7 August 2017 saying that the stock from Mrs Ms mother 
had been successfully transferred and that all holdings had been sold except the holding in 
Company A. The adviser said that he would await instructions from Mr and Mrs M to sell or 
reduce the holding in Company A.
On 20 November 2017, Mr and Mrs M placed a limit order instruction to sell 600 shares in 
Company A at a price of £50 and these were sold at that price. A further limit order 
instruction to sell 780 shares at £51.95 was passed on 21 November 2017 by Mr and Mrs M 
and this was in place until it expired on 22 December 2017.
During 2018, Mr and Mrs M were in correspondence with BD about Company A shares and 
they asked for advice on two occasions. BD replied to these requests with information from 
BDs Research Team. 
On 29 November 2018, Mr M contacted BD to say that he was concerned about a 
substantial loss of value in the shares of Company A.  Mr M said that he felt that they had 
had no input from BD on the collapsing price. 
BD replied with further information on the fair value of Company A and the adviser gave his 
opinion on what the price may do in the future. The adviser reminded Mr and Mrs M that they 
continued to have a sizable holding in Company A above the level that they would normally 
advise. The adviser asked for information on how Mr and Mrs M would like him to proceed in 
managing the portfolio.
In early 2019, BD sent an email to Mrs and Mrs M asking for authority to move the holding of 
Company A into an execution only account. This was followed up with another email and in 
the Service Review dated 1 April 2019, the adviser confirmed that the holding had been 
moved to an execution only account.
Mr and Mrs M requested a refund of management fee charges as their holding in Company 
A was not being managed on a discretionary basis and this was arranged with a refund of 
£1,319.79.
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs M told BD that they may be selling a significant part of their 
portfolio and asked for advice on the best way to do this in a cost-effective manner. 
BD replied with details on what charges would apply on liquidating the portfolio and if they 
chose to transfer out, what charges would apply in moving to another provider. Mr and Mrs 
M transferred their portfolio to another provider in November 2019.
Mr and Mrs M complained to BD in January 2020 and the complaint was split into four parts. 
BD investigated the complaint and replied on 26 February 2020. BD upheld one part of their 
complaint but did not uphold the rest of their complaint as they felt they had acted correctly.
Unhappy with BDs response, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to the service and one 
of our investigators reviewed their complaint. The investigator did not uphold the complaint 
and thought that BD had acted fairly.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs M have asked for an ombudsman to look 
at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr and Mrs M feel strongly 
about their complaint so I will explain why I have reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is split into three parts and I will deal with each part in turn.
Shares in Company A  management of the holding
Mrs M inherited shares in Company A and these were retained in the discretionary portfolio 
with BD. In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs M say that it was their intention to 
manage their way out of these shares with a view to maximising returns. Mr and Mrs M said 
that BD would manage the portfolio, but they would have the final say on the disposal of 
Company A shares.
Mr and Mrs M say that as inexperienced investors, BD failed in their professional duty to 
protect them in the drop in price of Company A. They say that the shares were placed in a 
discretionary portfolio to maximise management and dealing charges.
I have reviewed the account opening documents and correspondence between BD and Mrs 
and Mrs M. I think that the account was opened on a discretionary basis and BD were 
responsible for managing the portfolio. I think it is also clear that Mr and Mrs M wanted the 
decision making over shares in Company A.
This type of set up is rare in discretionary portfolios as the business would normally have 
complete and full control over the decision-making process but having read the documentation in the file, I think that there was an understanding that BD would only act on 
instruction from Mr and Mrs M on the shares in Company A. 
In BDs email to Mr and Mrs M on 7 August 2017, the adviser wrote:
As and when you give instructions to sell or reduce shares in Company A I will use the 
funds raised to continue to make investments for you.
This was also demonstrated by Mr and Mrs Ms instructions to sell shares and to have a limit 
orders in place should the price of Company A meet a certain value. 
As it was understood that Mr and Mrs M wished to have the final say in the decision making 
over Company A shares, I cant say that BD have acted unfairly in managing this aspect of 
the portfolio. When asked for advice, BD responded with information that would have 
enabled them to make an informed decision.
Mr and Mrs M say that they were inexperienced investors and BD failed in their duty to 
protect them. I have looked at the Client Investment Proposal that was prepared by BD 
following a meeting with Mr and Mrs M. This document summarises the fact find that was 
conducted to understand Mr and Mrs Ms personal and financial circumstances. The 
document states that:
Mr M had a good level of knowledge, experience and understanding of investments 
Mrs M had very little knowledge and experience in this area
Mr M had also kept investments/shares through periods of very significant volatility and through 
this experience has gained a good understanding of the volatility that different asset classes can 
show
The document summarised how the portfolio would be managed and what risk category 
would be applied based on their knowledge and experience. The document finished with a 
statement that if Mr and Mrs M felt that any of the information was inaccurate then they 
should contact BD.
BD did not class Mr M as an inexperienced investor and believed that he had a good level of 
knowledge based on previous experience. I cant see any evidence that Mr and Mrs M 
challenged this information.
I think that BD managed the portfolio fairly and were mindful that Mr and Mrs M wanted to 
have the final say on the shares in Company A. I cant hold BD responsible for any fall in 
value of Company As shares as they did not have a clear mandate to dispose of these 
shares and Im not going to ask BD to do anything further.
Portfolio split  moving Company As shares to an execution only account
Mr and Mrs M say in their submission to the service that BD were keen to move the shares 
in Company A to an execution only account. They say that this was to avoid any liability.
I have looked at the letter that the adviser sent Mr and Mrs M in March 2019 and note the 
following wording:
Further to my previous emails on this subject, as I am not managing the Company A 
holding, I feel strongly that I should move this holding to an execution only portfolio.There are no management costs associated. It is actually cheaper as you will not incur a 
management fee.
I have considered the motive for BD sending this email and I think that it was to differentiate 
the holdings that BD had discretion over and the holding of Company As shares where they 
did not have the final say. I dont think that BD acted unfairly by doing this and I think that 
they had Mr and Mrs Ms interests in mind.
It could be argued that BD could have placed the shares in Company A in an execution only 
account at the outset of the relationship. As BD refunded management fees to Mr and Mrs 
M, I dont think that there has been any financial loss incurred by not moving the shares into 
the execution only account earlier.
I think that BDs actions in moving the shares into an execution only account were justified, 
and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
Advice on portfolio disposal 
Mr and Mrs M say that they requested advice on the most cost-effective manner of raising 
funds. They say that BD ignored this, and it was only after prompting that BD gave 
information transferring their portfolio to another provider.
I have reviewed the documentation that Mr and Mrs M sent in October 2019 to BD. They 
said:
There is a potential that there may be some movement on the exchange rate. Maybe. If 
there is a positive movement we may consider paying off our mortgage. That would involve 
selling a significant part of the portfolio. Can I have a chat with you so I understand the best 
manner of doing this in the most cost-effective way together with the timings involved.
The adviser replied with details of what charges would apply. Mr M later asked the adviser 
for advice on the most cost-effective way to transfer the portfolio. The advisor replied with 
details on what would happen and the costs for transferring.
I have not seen any evidence that BD ignored Mr and Mrs Ms request for information and 
think that they replied with clear information. As I think that BD have acted fairly, Im not 
going to ask them to do anything further.
In summary, I think that BD acted fairly in managing the discretionary portfolio and the status 
of shares in Company A was known and understood by both BD and Mr and Mrs M. I cant 
hold BD responsible for the fall in value of shares in Company A and I can see that they 
responded to requests for advice when asked. 
I cant see any evidence that they acted unfairly in placing Company A shares into an 
execution only account and Mr and Mrs M did not suffer any financial loss as a result.
I am not persuaded by Mr and Mrss claim that BD ignored their request for the most cost-
effective way to sell or transfer the portfolio.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman