DRN-4197342
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B are unhappy with the service Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
provided after they were the victims of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Where the circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them 
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope Mr and 
Ms B and Halifax wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature 
of our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why. But before I do, I want to acknowledge that I understand my decision will be 
disappointing to Mr B and Ms B. But based on the evidence, I am persuaded the offer 
Halifax has made is fair in the circumstances. I will explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr B authorised the payments in question. Over a two-and-a-half-
month period he sent £32,164 to his crypto wallet from his Halifax account, (where the funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammer). While I accept that Mr B didnt intend for 
his money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs)     
Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance as the payments were authorised by 
him. Unless there is sufficient evidence that Halifax should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to protect him, e.g. by failing to act on clear triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
activity on the account.
To put it another way, Halifax has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and 
one of the reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Halifax needs to have systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers 
are at risk of fraud (amongst other things). With that in mind, Ive considered whether Halifax 
should have considered these payments as being so unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought 
to have given the bank sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Bearing this in mind, and having considered the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifaxs systems to have been triggered by the payments 
in dispute. I will explain why.
The first payment in dispute was for £100 sent via faster payment to Mr Bs own crypto 
wallet on 7 January 2022. I am satisfied it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifaxs 
systems to have been triggered. I say this because its a relatively nominal amount and if 
Halifax were expected to check each transaction of this value it would cause significant 
inconvenience for its customers.
I have also considered that Mr B was presented with a warning when he made his first 
payment of £100. The warning outlined that Halifax was unable to check the account details. 
The warning said: 
Were seeing more scams to accounts that cant be checked
Mr B proceeded to make the payment.
The payments which followed ranged between £1 and £4,000 between 10 January 2022 and 
14 March 2022. While I accept the amount of money Mr B sent is clearly significant to him, 
this doesnt in itself suggest a heightened risk of fraud. I also acknowledge that some of the 
transactions in question were larger than usual for the account, although, in the context of 
what I would generally expect a bank to identify as suspiciously large, the amounts themself 
werent remarkably high. So, I am not persuaded this would have stood out as unusual or 
suspicious. 
I have also considered Mr Bs account activity. The payments in question were all made via 
faster payment over a two-anda-half-month period (roughly). When I have gone on to 
consider Mr Bs statements, I can see that prior to the scam, Mr B mainly used his account 
to make faster payments, and there had been several faster payments made to an 
international money transfer service, in short succession, in the same month. Mr B would 
often transfer money into his Halifax account and out the same day or within a couple of 
days of transferring it into the account. This is how he managed his account. And is in line 
with the payments in question. So, while the amount he transferred was higher than usual 
(although in context of what I would generally expect a bank to identify as suspiciously large, 
the amount itself isnt remarkably high) it was still in line with the pattern of behaviour on the 
account. 
Lastly, Mr B was also transferring the money to his crypto wallet, which he had already sent 
a nominal amount to on 7 January 2022 after Halifax had presented a warning. As a 
consequence, the payments which followed, for the reasons outlined above, werent 
significantly large or uncharacteristic to an unknown/new payee.
As such, I dont think Halifax could reasonably have known that these payments were 
subject of a scam. The payments were not significant enough to have triggered its systems; 
nor were there sufficient grounds to justify delaying the payments.
I have gone on to consider if Halifax took reasonable steps to try and recover the funds. Its 
important to note that Mr B didnt ask Halifax to send the money directly to the scammers but 
instead to a crypto wallet in his name. And Halifax did as Mr B requested. So, I am 
persuaded that it was highly unlikely that Halifax would be able to facilitate the recovery of 
the payments after they were moved on from Mr Bs crypto wallet to the scammer. 
Therefore, I dont think I can hold Halifax responsible for Mr B being unable to recover his 
funds.
All things considered, and despite my natural empathy for this cruel scam and the situation 
Mr B finds himself in having lost his money, Im not persuaded Halifax taking different 
actions would have prevented the payments being made, or the loss that ensued, for the 
reasons I have explained. It follows that I do not consider it fair or reasonable to require 
Halifax to do anything beyond what it has already done for this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman