DRN-2304818
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he and the late Mrs W were given in 2016 by Mazars. He 
says they were advised to invest £400,000 in unregulated and high risk investments which 
were unsuitable for them. He says they were too high risk and higher risk than the risk level 
they agreed to take with their investments. He says they had to cash-in other investments to 
provide the money for these new investments. This was at a time when they would need to 
pay a high level of care fees in the near future.
What happened
In 2016 Mazars recommended that Mr W and Mrs W invest the following amounts in several 
products:
Deal Partners  £30,000 
Foresight Inheritance  £80,000 
Ingenious Capital Management  £80,000
Puma Heritage  £80,000
Rockpool Investments  £80,000
Triple Point  2 x £40,000 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative raised concerns with Mazars  materially about the risk of the 
investments and lack of liquidity. Mazars did not uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
The recommended investments were Business Relief Schemes (BRS) and 
Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS).
Mr and Mrs Ws priority at the time was ensuring that they had sufficient income to 
meet their needs, with a secondary need being mitigating inheritance tax (IHT). 
After the recommended investments were made, they still had significant other 
investments  about £1.1 million in liquid assets.
At the time they required an additional £65,000 a year to meet their needs.
It recommended replacing direct equities with collective investments.
The BRS investments were relatively liquid, and Mr and Mrs W had other assets to 
rely on should they need to disinvest.
The EIS is illiquid but it only represents a small proportion of their assets and it also 
provided income tax relief and IHT relief. 
Mr and Mrs W referred the complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. 
She did not think the complaint should be upheld. In summary she said:
The recommendation was that about £200,000 be held in cash, about £700,000 in a 
low risk/low volatility fund, £100,000 would be placed in an EIS and about £650,000 
in BRS. 
The investment in BRS was then reduced to £400,000.
The investments and risk level were discussed at the time  there were email 
exchanges between family members and the adviser.
Sufficient assets were set aside to generate the income Mr and Mrs W required. 
Although the BRS investments had restricted liquidity, they could be cashed-in  that 
happened in 2019. The BRS provided IHT benefits.
The matter of liquidity of the investments was set out in the literature at the time.
Mr and Mrs W indicated that they could take investment risk at the time. Mr W had 
worked in financial services for 50 years and had previously invested in direct 
equities. 
Mazars based its advice on the entire portfolio, and when the portfolio was taken as a 
whole the risk was appropriate whilst at the same time providing Mr and Mrs W with 
IHT mitigation. 
The charges of the advice were set out at the time.
In the main, the family were copied in to emails and other communications and were 
not excluded by Mazars. 
The advice appeared suitable taking into account Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and 
objectives. 
Mr Ws representative did not accept the investigators assessment and made further 
submissions. In summary:
Whilst Mr W was previously a finance professional, he retired over 25 years ago and 
the nature of investments has moved on from the 1980s/90s. 
Whilst the investigator stated that emails could have been forwarded to family 
members by Mr W, he was not used to dealing with that communication method.
They disagree that AIM shares are more volatile  AIM shares are dealt with on a 
recognized exchange whereas the BRS and EIS are illiquid, unregulated and high 
risk. AIM shares are lower risk.
The Deal Partners investment is in serious difficulties and cannot be cashed-in. This 
has not protected the security of the assets  which was a requirement. 
The investments were not suitable for individuals of Mr and Mrs Ws age and are 
maximum risk. Mazars increased the risk of the portfolio when it should have been 
reducing it. 
Mr W has advised that he has not received the income from a trust that the 
investigator referred to in her assessment. 
The investigator considered this but was not persuaded to change her view of the complaint. 
Mr Ws representative asked the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to offer my condolences to Mr W and the late Mrs Ws family. I am 
conscious that Mrs W has recently passed away and this must be a difficult time for them. I agree that, generally speaking, BRS and EIS would be classified as high risk  at the top 
end of a normal risk spectrum. What is material is whether the recommendation of such high 
risk investments was suitable for Mr and Mrs W in the circumstances and whether the risks 
were disclosed so that an informed decision as to whether to proceed could be made. 
I have considered the fact finding information completed at the time the advice was given 
which sets out Mr and Mrs Ws aims and circumstances. I have also considered the 
recommendations that were given by the adviser.
Mr and Mrs W had significant assets and they required a significant level of regular income 
to support them in the foreseeable future. This was considered in the recommendation report 
issued by the adviser in 2016.
It was discussed that Mr and Mrs Ws objective was to make sure they were financially 
secure for the rest of their lives and, secondly, that they were seeking to reduce their IHT 
liability. It was discussed that a Discounted Gift Trust (DGT) was not available, so some 
other form of IHT planning was required. 
It was also set out that Mr W would accept investment risk and had invested the majority of 
his capital in shares previously. However, it was stated that he would not be comfortable with 
significant capital losses within their portfolio.
It was stated that a risk assessment had determined that Mr W had a risk tolerance of 7, 
and Mrs W 5, on a scale of 1 to 10. 
And it was noted:
you have confirmed that you are happy to take the intrinsic high degree of risk, given the 
potential benefits of the proposed strategy, in particular the significant IHT savings after the 
requisite two-year holding period has been met.
You should, however, be aware that we generally consider EIS and Business Relief-
qualifying investments to be Highest Risk (10/10) and they should not be entered into 
where any form of capital security is required with the funds to be invested.
You should ensure that you are both fully comfortable with the risks inherent to the proposed 
investments before proceeding and should give serious consideration as to whether it is 
appropriate to proceed with these investments if (Mr W) will continue investing a high 
proportion of the recommended liquid reserve in direct UK equities
And:
Additionally, it is important that you understand that you may not be able to draw any money 
from your EIS/BR investments until they mature. As such, if there is any chance that you 
may require access to these funds within the short-to-medium term you should reconsider 
how much is invested. You should also be aware that EIS investments do not typically have 
a fixed investment period with an automatic maturity date. It is in fact the manager that 
determines when a plan matures and they will do this based on when they feel that the best 
returns are available for investors.
It is important to regularly review your attitude to risk and capacity for loss in light of 
your objectives as these can change, requiring alterations to a suitable portfolio.
Cash and investmentsDuring our meeting of 3rd December 2015 I stressed that the recommended strategy is 
highly dependent on the suggested reserve of cash and investments being able to provide 
you with your required annual income shortfall of £65,000 (in todays terms). If some of this 
reserve is invested, as we would expect (Mr W) to do (based on his past investment 
decisions), this should be in a low-risk, low-volatility strategy, as the volatility and/or absolute 
loss possible with a portfolio or range of direct equities could accelerate the exhaustion of 
the portfolio. Section 3 of this report contains details of our proposed strategy and the 
analysis we have completed on the likely longevity of this liquid reserve.
(Mr W), you explained that you currently invest very considerable sums in direct equities and 
I strongly warned against this if the proposed strategy is adopted. I have previously 
explained that we can assist you with managing part of the investment element in a suitable 
manner to provide a majority of the annual shortfall, with you retaining the other part for your 
own interest and with less reliance on this fund to meet your ongoing needs.
It was discussed that there was a significant IHT liability to be mitigated and the following 
strategy was set out:
Having considered your objectives, expenditure requirement and the various IHT planning 
options available, I originally recommended that we utilise your £1,651,000 of liquid assets in 
accordance with the following strategy:
Retain £100,000 of cash to provide sufficient liquidity for any large one-off 
expenditure needs as well as a liquid buffer to reduce the reliance on capital 
withdrawals from the investment portfolio.
Invest £500,000 of your assets into an income-generating portfolio targeting a yield of 
3.50% per annum and utilise this yield of approximately £17,500 per annum, as well 
as further withdrawals from capital of £15,000, towards meeting your income 
shortfall.
Settle £650,000 into a DGT and utilise annual withdrawals of £32,500 towards 
meeting your income shortfall.
Invest approximately £106,000 into EIS over the current and next two tax years so as 
to fully mitigate (Mr Ws) Income Tax liabilities.
Invest the remaining £295,000 of your liquid assets into assets which are IHT-exempt 
after two Years
In addition to the above, we suggested that you cease withdrawals from your offshore trust 
so as to preserve the value of this asset, which you believe to be outside of your estate for 
IHT purposes; we encouraged you to seek confirmation from the trustees that this is 
definitely the case. 
We also recommended that an exercise is undertaken to document all gifts made within the 
last seven years and to match these with the various exemptions available and that you 
continue with this exempt gifting throughout the rest of your lives.
However, because the DGT was not an option the following revised strategy was set out:
Retain £195,000 of cash to provide sufficient liquidityI recommend that you retain £195,000, equivalent to three years worth of the required 
additional income of £65,000, to provide sufficient liquidity for any large one-off expenditure 
needs and to provide a liquid buffer to reduce the reliance on capital withdrawals from the 
investment portfolio in the event of a serious market downturn (i.e. if the markets took a 
significant and prolonged downturn you could switch off your reliance on those investments 
and draw on cash reserves instead until the markets recovered).
This has been increased from the £100,000 originally recommended as your cash and 
investments will now be fully relied upon to meet your income shortfall of £65,000 (i.e. as the 
DGT, which would have provided £32,500 of income per annum, is unable to proceed).
Invest £705,000 of your assets into an income-generating portfolio and/or longer-term 
cash deposits and utilise this to meet your income shortfall
I recommend that £705,000 is invested within an income-generating portfolio and/or longer-
term cash and that a combination of yield and capital withdrawal is utilised to meet your 
income shortfall of £65,000 per annum (in todays terms).
This has been increased from the £500,000 originally recommended as your cash and 
investments will now be fully relied upon to meet your income shortfall of £65,000, as above. 
If this £705,000 fund were invested within a portfolio targeting a yield of 3.50% per annum, 
this would enable you to take approximately £24,675 as a natural income yield. You would 
therefore have to take further withdrawals from capital of approximately £40,325 per annum.
It was then recommended that a sum of around £100,000 would be invested in EIS over the 
next two years and about £650,000 into BRS. As will be discussed, in the event the sums 
invested in this area were significantly reduced  so less capital was being exposed to the 
risks of BRS and EIS. 
In terms of providing the income required in future it was noted that:
Longevity of cash and investments
During our meeting of 3rd December 2015 I stressed that the recommended strategy is 
highly dependent on this overall £900,000 suggested reserve of cash and investments being 
able to provide you with your required annual income shortfall of £65,000 (in todays terms).
If some of this reserve is invested, this should be in a low-risk, low-volatility strategy, 
as the volatility and/or absolute loss possible with a portfolio or range of direct 
equities could accelerate the exhaustion of the portfolio.
The primary consideration with this strategy is whether £900,000 (of cash and investments) 
is sufficient to meet the £65,000 (and increasing with inflation) annual shortfall.
As such, we have analysed the longevity of a fund of this size based on two different 
scenarios:
1. Keeping the entire £900,000 as cash earning a net interest rate of 1.50% per annum and 
with expenditure increasing by inflation of 3.00% per annum.
Our analysis has showed that this fund would be fully depleted at (Mr Ws) age 99 and (Mrs 
Ws) age 100. Our analysis also showed that the value of the fund would drop below 
£650,000 at (Mr Ws) age 90 and (Mrs Ws) age 91, at which point there would be no IHT to 
pay on assets within their estate (although the £100,000 gift to (family member) would still 
cause a small IHT liability until the full seven years have passed since this gift was made).2. Investing £850,000 to the asset allocation of our Capital Growth model portfolio, which 
has 79.5% equity exposure and is assumed to average 4.0% net growth per annum, keeping 
£50,000 as cash earning a net interest rate of 1.50% per annum, and with expenditure 
increasing by inflation of 3.00% per annum.
Our analysis has showed that there is a 100% probability that this fund would be able to 
meet you expenditure requirement at (Mr Ws) age 91 and (Mrs Ws) age 92 (i.e. five years 
time), a 98% probability at (Mr Ws) age 96 and (Mrs Ws) age 97 (i.e. 10 years time), and a 
76% chance at (Mr Ws) age 101 and (Mrs Ws) age 102 (i.e. 15 years time). Despite our 
analysis showing there to be a 100% probability of you being able meet your expenditure 
requirement for the next five years, clearly there are conceivable circumstances (i.e. 
significant losses in direct equity investments) where this might not be the case.
As previously stated we recommend that you retain £195,000 of short-term cash and invest 
£795,000 into an income-generating portfolio and/or longer-term cash deposits. We are, 
however, aware that (Mr W) currently invests very considerable sums in direct equities, and 
again strongly warn against continuing with this if the proposed strategy is adopted.
Although we would not recommend that you hold all of the recommended £900,000 as cash, 
our analysis of scenario 1 illustrates that this should not be discounted as this would provide 
you with sufficient means to meet your income requirements to (Mr Ws) age 99 and (Mrs 
Ws) age 100 with minimal risk in the interim.
Our analysis of scenario 2 is intended to illustrate the risks of taking a higher equity 
exposure and reduced cash balance, if you continue to take that approach with your reserve. 
Whilst in scenario 1 your expenditure has a 100% probability of being met until (Mr Ws) age 
99 and (Mrs Ws) age 100, in 12 scenario 2 there is an element of shortfall risk introduced 
from (Mr Ws) age 95 and (Mrs Ws) age 96 and which continues to increase thereafter.
As discussed above, the £195,000 cash holding is recommended to provide a further liquid 
buffer equivalent to three years worth of your income shortfall. This would enable us to 
temporarily cease capital withdrawals from the investment portfolio in the event of a serious 
market downturn, which would be sensible as continuing these withdrawals would be 
disproportionately damaging to the portfolio value in such a scenario. This cash holding also 
provides sufficient liquidity for any large one-off expenditure needs.
Finally, in the event that either or both of you live to a point where this reserve has been 
depleted then you would have two choices; you could sell down some of the Business 
Relief-qualifying investments (which in reality would be done some years in advance of the 
reserve being completely depleted) or you could use some of the funds within your offshore 
trust (although this would only be advised in a real emergency due to its believed IHT 
efficient nature).
The various BRS and EIS investments recommended were then set out in some detail  the 
risks were mentioned (including that they were of higher volatility and risk) as was the fact 
that liquidity could be an issue. It was set out that:
If you cannot afford a total loss of the investments you should not consider investing. 
Investment should not be viewed as a short-term investment.
Both Mr and Mrs W signed High Net Worth statements on 2 March 2016 that confirmed:
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested.I have also noted an email from the adviser to a family member dated 26 January 2016 in 
which he responded to some queries. In that email was the following comment:
With regards for the preference for AIM-based investments over BPR/BR investments, I 
must say that I would strongly advise against going down this route. As I advised when we 
last met at (.) (as we did discuss and discount AIM portfolios then), I have had past 
experience of clients who have come to me with AIM shares and portfolios (managed and 
unmanaged) and almost always it has been a negative experience for them (i.e. they have 
found them to be very volatility and have often lost significant sums of money).
I understand the points you raise regarding the potential for income generation and 
perceived greater liquidity but, firstly on the income point of view, it would be my view that 
the non-IHT focused assets (i.e. the £900,000) should be used to meet the on-going needs 
as the plan is to deplete this fund down to a level where no IHT should be payable (i.e. to 
£650,000). As for the liquidity point, AIM shares are more liquid in the sense that they are 
listed on an exchange and therefore present immediate liquidity but the volatility they tend to 
exhibit can also mean that it is not attractive to dispose of the shares as and when you want 
to. With the proposed BR investments, whilst they are not listed and therefore dont have 
daily liquidity they should be able to provide the level of liquidity that you require for the 
proposed strategy (i.e. as soon as the £900,000 get down to c. £600,000, release £50,000 - 
£60,000 per annum should not cause any issues).
Finally, and perhaps the main reason I wouldnt recommend you putting the remaining 
assets into AIM shares is the general positioning of the rest of your parents assets. As we 
have discussed previously, in contrast with our advice, the £900,000 fund will be invested 
almost entirely in UK direct equities as this is the asset class that your father likes to invest 
in. As we have seen recently (and we expect to continue to see for the foreseeable future), 
this is a highly volatile approach to investing such a large and important amount of money 
(i.e. its the money they are to live off). Furthermore, we know that any EIS investments 
made have pretty much zero liquidity for the three to four year minimum holding period. As 
such, I feel that putting all of the remaining assets into high volatility AIM shares would just 
expose your parents overall asset base to too much investment risk and too much volatility 
and this is why I would not recommend going down this route.
I suppose ultimately this all comes down to a question of what your primary objectives are. If 
they are to maximise potential returns then AIM investments do have greater return potential 
(but also greater loss potential) than the proposed BPR-based strategy. However, if your 
objective is to adopt a more capital reservation approach which aims to preserve what your 
parents currently have whilst reducing their IHT liability and ensuring they can meet their 
needs comfortably for the rest of their lives then I would certainly recommend the BPR 
strategy.
I have noted an email from the adviser to Mr W dated 4 February 2016. In the email the 
adviser discusses the objectives and what is being recommended to address Mr and Mrs 
Ws needs. It was set out that:
I have done some research on the point that I raised around whether offshore gains were 
able to be deferred using EIS and I can confirm that they are so I think that means that we 
will make an EIS investment of £68,128 to defer the gain arising from the offshore trust in 
2014/15. It is important to note that this would create £20,438.40 of Income Tax relief to be 
set against (Mr Ws) Income Tax liabilities for the 2014/15 and 2015/16 tax year, however, 
we do not expect that he will have that level of liabilities. As such, some of the Income Tax 
relief will most likely go unused.If you can confirm that you agree with the above then I will post out the paperwork for that 
EIS investment.
As for the wider Business Property Relief planning, I explained why I dont think that AIM 
shares are an appropriate course of action with the surplus assets identified (i.e. assets in 
excess of the £900,000 expenditure fund and the £106,000 (approx.) designated for EIS 
this year and the next two years). In short, I think AIM shares are a very difficult asset class 
to manage so its essentially a very volatile form of gambling. Furthermore, not all AIM 
shares qualify for BPR (now BR) and therefore if youre doing this for IHT purposes then you 
need to instruct a professional to manage the portfolio for you.
With the above comments as a background, I feel that if your objectives are still to ensure 
(Mr and Mrs Ws) financial security whilst also attempting to reduce their IHT liability as 
quickly as possible then the proposed portfolio of BPR investments are your best option as 
they:
1. Get those assets outside the estate after 2 years
2. Exhibit much lower volatility than AIM shares
3. Have sufficient liquidity to be used to prop up the expenditure fund as soon as this gets 
down below the £650,000 IHT threshold.
4. Are expected to produce returns of c. 3-5% per annum (with all of scheme managers only 
taking their fees if such returns have been achieved).
As I explained on Monday, the only other option that I can see available is to make direct 
gifts down to the next generations but as we have discussed previously there are two 
significant downsides to this option:
1. The direct gifts are subject to a seven year clock rather than a two year clock
2. The assets gifted are no longer available to (Mr and Mrs W) if they need more funds in the 
Future. 
One final point that we touched on was the level or risk being adopted with the £900,000 
expenditure fund. I know that we have harped on about this a lot but I think that it is 
essential that this £900,000 is managed in such a way that it is likely to last for the next 10-
15 years. I know that the direct equity route is considered more interesting and is the area 
that (Mr W) knows most about but its also an asset class that is very volatile and therefore is 
not really suitable for a £900,000 fund where £65,000 is being drawn each year (in my 
opinion). As discussed, I would suggest keeping £195,000 or so in pure cash as a buffer to 
take from if the investment markets become depressed and therefore you dont want to 
realise any investments, I would then have the majority of the rest (c. £500,000 in a low risk, 
high yielding portfolio) and then perhaps a play fund of £200,000 which there is no 
dependence on currently and therefore volatility and risk are not so important.
On 10 April 2016 a family member sent an email to the adviser, copying in Mr W and other 
family members.
This email set out that the tax advantages were understood but questions were raised about 
the risk of the investments. It was discussed that Mr and Mrs W had an overall risk rating of 
6 out of 10 and their capacity for loss was noted as moderate, which was correct. However 
the investments were rated 10 out of 10 or Highest risk and there were warnings that they 
might be difficult to sell and that Mr and Mrs W might get back nothing at all. The apparent discrepancy was questioned, as was the suitability, given the proposed £400,000 
investment.   
The adviser replied to the parties. The adviser said that the investments were classified 
highest risk not necessarily because they represented the highest risk of total loss but 
because of the, small and relatively illiquid nature of the unlisted investments.
He went onto to say that the direct equity investing that Mr W was experienced in, 
represents more of a risk to their longer term financial security that these BR investments. 
As Ive said before the main risk with these BR investments is short term liquidity. 
The adviser went on to discuss how he viewed the overall strategy with other assets 
providing liquidity and a lower risk approach, with suitably diversified BRS investments.
The adviser also discusses the IHT benefits of the investments and that DGTs and PETs 
(Potentially Exempt Transfers) have been ruled out. I understand that a DGT was not 
possible as Mr and Mrs W were not insurable  which is not unusual given their age at the 
time.
The adviser set out that he had considered the issue of risk in terms of the overall portfolio 
(said to be about £1.6 million), with other lower risk assets balancing the risk of the BRS and 
EIS. 
So I believe it is clear that there were two main objectives  providing security in future and 
mitigating IHT and other tax. It was discussed that if investments such as BRS or EIS were 
not used, then direct gifts would take seven years to fall fully outside the estate, and trusts 
would create access issues. AIM shares were discussed and it is clear that the adviser had 
reservations about that. But I think he made it reasonably clear that if that was a route that 
Mr and Mrs W wished to take, then it was an option, albeit not one he would recommend. 
I dont believe BRS and EIS provide security of capital. They are generally accepted as 
being high risk investments. But I dont believe that they should be viewed in isolation  that 
is misleading in the context of this advice. And I dont believe absolute security with all the 
money was being sought  it was apparent that significant investment risk was acceptable 
for some of the money  as the suggestion of AIM shares suggests. The advice took into 
account Mr and Mrs Ws income sources and overall assets -which were significant. The 
recommendations clearly took into account that Mr and Mrs W would be left with significant 
other assets to support them  and these would provide lower risk holdings to balance the 
higher risk BRS and EIS investments.   
As I understand it the BRS investments have now been encashed for the following sums (in 
2019):
Foresight Inheritance  about £84,000 
Ingenious Capital Management  about £85,000
Puma Heritage  about £84,000
Rockpool Investments  about £80,000
Triple Point  about £43,000 each (total £86,000)
So it would appear that the majority of the investments could be cashed-in as the adviser 
suggested and they would appear to have provided some level of security of capital.The Deal Partners EIS investment can only be encashed when the fund managers decide 
that the money can be distributed. Mr Ws representative says that the investment is in 
difficulty and illiquid. 
A significant benefit of EIS a BRS investments is that if they are held for two years they are 
exempt from assessment to IHT. This was confirmed by the adviser and was set out as 
being a significant advantage of taking this investment route (rather than, say, having to wait 
seven years if the money was directly gifted). Another advantage is that Mr and Mrs W 
would retain control of the money. The EIS has the additional benefit of income tax relief. 
So a total portfolio was recommended that seems to me to strike a balance between 
providing the required income, providing a level of security (whilst still retaining the prospect 
of investment return) and obtaining significant tax (particularly IHT), benefits. Given the 
overall portfolio I do not believe that an unsuitable recommendation in the circumstances. 
The advice was given on a total portfolio basis, not that all investments had to meet a 
moderate grading in and of themselves. I believe the recommendations made that clear and 
the risks were set out. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W were elderly, but that was taken into 
account when the recommendations were given, as was their need for income.
  
I appreciate that the EIS investment may well fail but that was only a very small part of the 
overall portfolio and the risks were set out when the advice was given. In terms of the overall 
portfolio and the tax benefits it brought, I dont believe it was an unsuitable recommendation. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr W had been retired for some time and might not appreciate all the 
subtleties of BRS and EIS investments, I think it more likely he could appreciate the risks of 
what he was being advised to do. He had fairly extensive experience of investing in equities 
and I think he would have been able to appreciate the general risks of the products being 
recommended  especially the risk of losses.  
I note that at one point the family suggested that they were more in favour of AIM shares. 
And submissions have been made that AIM shares would have been more suitable or a 
better recommendation. But I do not agree. 
It is not straightforward to compare the risks of BRS/EIS and AIM shares because they 
operate in different ways and have their own advantages and disadvantages. To some 
extent the risk level would depend on what shares were chosen and what BRS and EIS were 
chosen. But AIM shares present, generally speaking, the same kind of risks to capital as the 
BRS and EIS investments  AIM shares would generally be classified at the highest end of 
the risk scale. The fact that AIM shares are traded on recognised exchanges does not make 
them lower risk. And BRS and EIS are accepted and widely used methods of investment 
also. 
AIM generally consists of smaller companies with a shorter, less established track record 
and they tend to be more volatile. There is a greater chance of company failure and larger 
investment losses are possible. Liquidity can be an issue. I dont believe the adviser made 
misleading statements about them. The type of risks are mentioned in the investment 
warnings included in the investment factsheet that Mr Ws representative has supplied. 
So AIM shares were not necessarily a better option than what was recommended. In any 
event what is crucial is whether the advice that was given was suitable, not that another 
route might also have been suitable. I believe the evidence is that the advice was suitable, 
for the reasons discussed.  
Whilst it has been put forward that family members were excluded from 
conversations/discussions about the advice or recommendations, I have not seen 
persuasive evidence of that. Several family members, in addition to Mr and Mrs W, were 
copied into the material discussions about the steps that would be taken to achieve Mr and Mrs Ws aims. And queries were raised about the advice being given, by family members. In 
any event, the material issue is whether the recommendations were suitable for Mr and Mrs 
W and my view is that they were. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman