DRN-2930639
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Gold packaged bank 
account in 2012. Mr C paid a monthly fee for the account which provides several benefits in 
return.
What happened
Mr C initially held an under 19s account with Lloyds, which was updated to a fee-free Classic 
account in March 2009. This was upgraded to a fee-paid Gold account in one of Lloyds 
branches in October 2012, and the package was removed so the account reverted to a fee-
free account in June 2020.
Mr C says that the only reason he took the Gold account was because he was told he had to 
in order to have an overdraft facility added to his account. Hes explained that he had no 
need for the accounts other benefits, but he agreed to the upgrade so that he could have an 
overdraft.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to Mr C and didnt 
recommend that Lloyds should pay him any compensation. Mr C didnt agree so he asked 
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Cs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Cs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Gold account was mis-sold to 
him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr C was given a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank account.
Mr C has effectively said that he didnt have a choice about upgrading his account. I say this 
because Ive noted that Mr C says that if he hadnt upgraded, he wouldnt have been able to 
have an overdraft. 
I agree that if this had been the case, there could be some questions about whether Mr C 
was genuinely given a choice about upgrading his account. But having reviewed everything 
Mr C has said carefully, as well as the notes and evidence Lloyds has provided, Im not 
persuaded thats the case. 
Lloyds has provided the contact note made by the Lloyds representative from the time Mr 
Cs account was changed. The note explained that a Silver account was in fact 
recommended to Mr C  but he chose the Gold instead account as he thought it would 
benefit him more because of the savings he could make on overdraft charges. The note also 
refers to some of the accounts other benefits, such as car breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance and travel insurance. I dont know how accurate the note is, but I do think its likely 
that it gives a good idea of what was likely discussed. And given the discussion that it looks 
like took place, Im satisfied that Mr C knew he had a choice about which account to have  
so I think its also fair to say he likely knew he didnt have to upgrade if he didnt want to. 
So having considered everything here, Im satisfied that Mr C was aware that he had a 
choice about taking the Gold account. And I dont think he took it because he was given no 
other option but to do so, or because he was given false information.
I havent seen enough to make me think Lloyds recommended the Gold account to Mr C. So 
whilst it didnt have to check if the account was suitable for him, it had to give him the key 
information about it for him to decide for himself whether he wanted it.
I know that Mr C has said he only used the accounts benefits because he was paying for 
them, and I accept what hes said here. But like our adjudicator, I also think that Mr C mayve 
upgraded because he was interested in some of the benefits  even though he knew he 
didnt have to upgrade.
 
I can see from the records Lloyds has provided that Mr C registered his mobile phone 
against the accounts insurance policy shortly after upgrading. And around three and a half 
years later he registered a different phone. So whilst I understand that Mr Cs initial contact 
with Lloyds mayve been to obtain an overdraft, I think he decided to take the Gold account 
for the benefits that it offered him. 
I also cant see any reason Mr C couldnt have used some of the accounts other benefits 
too, such as the travel insurance cover, which the interview notes suggest he was interested 
in. I know Mr C didnt need to claim on that policy, but I can see from Mr Cs account 
transactions that he travelled overseas several times in the years following the upgrade. And 
it looks as though Mr C made an enquiry about the travel insurance policy in 2017. So Im 
satisfied that he knew about it and could have used it instead of paying for a separate policy 
if hed wanted or needed to.
I fully understand that Mr C may not have used, or had a need for, all the benefits of the 
Gold account. And with hindsight, he might not feel like its been good value for money to 
him. But that in itself doesnt mean Lloyds mis-sold the account to him, and it doesnt mean 
Lloyds should automatically uphold his complaint.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr C everything it should have about the Gold account. But 
I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr C wouldnt still have taken the account, 
even if Lloyds had told him more about it. 
I want to reassure Mr C that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Gold account to him. So I dont think it owes him any money.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman