DRN-3197168
The complaint
Mr B complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) declined his request for a payment deferral and recorded a default on his 
credit file with the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr B entered into a loan agreement with BPF in December 2017. The agreement was over a 
term of 120 months and required monthly repayments of £65.65. The loan started on 18 
January 2018 and loan repayments fell due on 18th of each month thereafter.
Mr B says that he contacted BPF around March/April 2020 to request deferral of his loan 
repayments. His household income had been impacted by the effects of the global pandemic 
and he was struggling to meet the repayments that were due.
Mr B says that BPF told him they couldnt agree to his request because he already had 
arrears on his loan with them. So, Mr B attempted to clear the arrears without success. Mr B 
says he continued to try to clear the arrears outstanding but, each time, the payment he tried 
to make was rejected.
When Mr B called BPF in July 2020, he says they told him his loan was in default. But he 
said they hadnt written to him to tell him that. So, Mr B complained to BPF. He didnt think 
theyd treated him fairly as hed tried to make payments without success. He also thought 
BPF shouldve agreed a payment deferral when hed requested it.
In their response to Mr Bs complaint, BPF said they hadnt done anything wrong. They said 
theyd issued the default correctly as hed not made a payment for the contractual amount 
for four months.
Mr B wasnt happy with BPFs response to his complaint. So, he decided to refer his 
complaint to this service. He wanted BPF to remove the default recorded on his credit file 
with the credit reference agencies.
One of our adjudicators investigated the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. They didnt think 
BPF had done anything wrong and theyd responded fairly and reasonably to his complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. So, his complaint has been referred to me 
in order to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A statement of Mr Bs loan account shows that repayments continued to be made, by direct 
debit without any difficulty until July 2019. The direct debit payment due on 18 July 2019 was 
returned unpaid on 22 July 2019. BPF represented the direct debit on 25 July 2019 and it 
was successfully processed. The same thing happened for the payment falling due on 18 
August 2019.
Thereafter, payments continued without a problem until 18 December 2019. That payment 
was returned unpaid and the represented direct debit was also unpaid. Mr B made a manual 
loan payment on 22 January 2020, but as his January direct debit was also unpaid, his loan 
remained in arrears. 
Direct debits continued to be returned unpaid for the payments due 18 February and 18 
March 2020. Also, no direct debit payments were made at all in April and May 2020. 
Throughout this period, I can see that Mr B made manual payments of £20 (10 March 2020), 
£60 (9 April 2020) and £91.30 (1 June 2020).
BPF have provided copied of letters they sent to Mr B during this period. They include eight 
letters about his unpaid direct debits between July 2019 and March 2020. They also sent an 
arrears notice to Mr B on 19 May 2020. It said he had arrears of £182.60.
On 24 May 2020, BPF sent a default notice to Mr B by post. It said he hadnt paid the 
repayments due on the Credit Agreement and he was in breach of the Repayments clause. 
The notice highlighted arrears of £182.60 which needed to be paid before 26 June 2020.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
The FCA said their guidance applies in the exceptional circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus and its impact on the financial situation of personal loan customers. This 
guidance is not intended to have any relevance in circumstances other than those related to 
coronavirus. The FCA also said that where a customer was in pre-existing financial 
difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidancewould continue to apply. 
While I agree that Mr Bs circumstances may have been worsened by the impact of the 
global pandemic, I think his repayment problems started before then. So, I dont think BPF 
did anything wrong when they declined Mr Bs request for a payment deferral.
I then considered whether BPF did anything wrong when they wrote to Mr B, placed his 
account into default and ultimately recorded that default with the credit reference agencies. 
Having written to Mr B on numerous occasions, I think the situation with Mr Bs loan 
shouldve been clear to him. The loan agreement said if Mr B missed or was late with his 
repayments, his credit records may be affected BPF had tried to collect repayments from 
Mr Bs bank account, by direct debit. But these had been returned unpaid and arrears began 
to build. So, I think this breached the conditions of his loan agreement and BPF were entitled 
to issue a default notice. 
Mr B says he didnt receive BPFs default notice. Ive seen copies of all the letters BPF sent 
to him, including the default notice. They were all addressed correctly, so I cant find any 
reason why he wouldnt have received them. While there might have been a postal problem, 
that wouldnt have been within BPFs control. So, I cant reasonably hold them responsible 
for if that happened.
BPFs letters were clear about what Mr Bs options were. They encouraged him to contact 
them and provided details of where he could get free and impartial debt advice. So, I believe 
BPF were trying to provide guidance and support Mr B with his financial problems.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments 
Mr B didnt clear the arrears before 26 June 2020, as the default notice required. So BPF 
recorded this on his credit file. I think they were entitled and required to do that here.I do appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed. But I dont think BPF have done anything 
wrong. The missed and late payments were occurring before the impact of the global 
pandemic, so I agree that the FCAs payment deferral guidance didnt apply here. I was 
pleased to hear that Mr B has now cleared his arears and is now maintaining his 
repayments. However, if he were to experience any difficulties going forward, I would urge 
him to discuss this with BPF promptly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman