DRN-3164819
The complaint
Mr C says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) were 
unreasonable to reject a claim he made to them under chargeback and under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that Tesco can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant Mr C paid.
But the chargeback process doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response to the request the 
bank submits. 
There first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. And Id 
consider it to be good practice for Tesco to raise a chargeback if it would have a good 
chance of being successful. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for Tesco  or me  to 
decide whether Mr C should be allowed to have his money back. Tescos role is to raise the 
appropriate chargeback and consider whether any filed defence complies with the relevant 
chargeback rules. From what Ive seen, thats what Tesco did here. 
The merchants response suggested that it didnt agree thered been a breach of contract. Its 
defence was enough to mean the chargeback didnt succeed. 
Where the merchant challenges a chargeback, a bank doesnt have to carry out a detailed 
investigation into what actually happened to decide which party deserves the money. In fact, 
most banks wont take a chargeback any further if its defended. But Tesco did put forward 
Mr Cs position to arbitration, where it was declined. I cant say that Tesco has made any 
mistake or acted incorrectly by making that decision.
Section 75
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr C says the delivery didnt happen on the day it should have but the invoice explains the 
pickup was on 26 August and the delivery on 26-27 August. As the delivery was completed 
on 27 August I cant say theres been a breach of contract.
Mr C also says the merchant blackmailed him as they insisted on a further £400 payment to 
move furniture down his drive in the morning. Im not persuaded this is a breach of contract 
as I think this was an extra service. Ive not seen that Mr C explained the restrictions at his 
new property. The special instructions said:
there is a driveway which you have to drive up but reverse down.
But theres no mention of the size of that driveway and Ive not seen that Mr C explained or 
agreed the need for a narrower van. Im not persuaded that a satellite image would be 
sufficient in those circumstances.
Mr C is also upset about the size of the boxes he received. I can see that the invoice made 
no charge for boxes and the packing appears to have been covered within the total charge. 
So, I dont think its clear what rebate would be due and, regardless, I cant see that theres 
sufficient evidence that what was ordered was not received.
I understand Mr C had to assist the merchant to unload the van and get furniture down the 
drive to his property. I can understand that must have been frustrating, but I dont think it 
would be fair to suggest it means the contract was breached. Thats because I dont think it 
would be fair to suggest that without Mr Cs help the delivery wouldnt have been completed 
in the requisite timeframe.
I can see that the original delivery slot had to be arranged for later in the day. The merchant 
has explained that this slot wasnt promised, and I can see that Mr C accepted a later slot. I 
dont think that suggests the contract was breached as a revised start time was accepted.I do think that Tesco should have considered a section 75 claim automatically when the 
chargeback failed. I can see that Tesco offered Mr C £75 in respect of the inconvenience 
caused by that mistake and I think, in the circumstances, that was sufficient.
Im not asking Tesco to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman