DRN-4359580
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is that she believed she arranged an endowment policy as the repayment 
vehicle for her mortgage in 1991, but she was subsequently told she had not. However, she 
has now found evidence that an endowment policy was set up and a premium was collected. 
In settlement of the complaint Mrs H wants to be given the benefits of the endowment policy, 
as she paid £22,000 toward it.
While Mrs Hs policy was arranged with a different life assurance company, as Phoenix Life 
Limited is now responsible for any acts or omissions relating to it, for simplicity I will refer to 
Phoenix throughout.
What happened
Mrs H has provided two illustrations dated 3 September 1991 produced by her mortgage 
lender. The first of these sets out the comparative costs of 25-year repayment and 
endowment-backed mortgages. The second illustration sets out the cost of a 
pension-backed mortgage. Both illustrations provided three projected maturity values for the 
relevant investment product, based on different assumed annual growth rates. The 
endowment policy premium was detailed as £28.05 and the pension premium was £37.71, 
with a term assurance built into it to protect the mortgage adding an additional cost of £2.83. 
The term of pension mortgage was to be 26 years and 9 months. 
Mrs H was sent an undated letter which welcomed her as a policyholder for a contract with a 
policy number ending 006G. Only the first page of the letter has been provided and it does 
not detail what type of policy had been arranged. However, the attached policy schedule, 
with matching policy number, was for a personal pension policy with a life cover benefit 
equal to the amount of Mrs Hs mortgage.
In addition, Mrs H has provided a payment book for an account ending in 994 what shows 
payments to the account from February 1994. It detailed that there was a monthly 
subscription amount of £135.99. The last payment date on the book was in September 2006. 
The payments recorded in the book were made in a branch of the relevant bank or building 
society.
Mrs H complained to Phoenix and it responded to the complaint in its final response letter of 
18 November 2022. Phoenix confirmed that it had searched its records and couldnt find any 
evidence of a policy in her name. it confirmed that the policy ending in 006G appeared to 
have been taken out as the intended repayment vehicle for her mortgage. As there was no 
record of the policy, it concluded that very few premiums were paid to the policy and it either 
lapsed or was cancelled at an early stage. As there were not details of the policy, Phoenix 
said it was unable to investigate the complaint further.
Mrs H was not happy with Phoenixs response and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators considered Mrs Hs complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the Investigators conclusions and maintained that her policy had 
been mis-sold and she had lost £22,000 that shed paid in premiums to the policy. She 
asked that the complaint be referred to an Ombudsman for further consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Mrs H has provided pages from a payment book, which she says is evidence she paid 
around £22,000 into the policy with Phoenix. I have looked at the payment book and its the 
type that would be used for a traditional bank or building society account. The premiums 
payable to a policy in Mrs Hs name, be it a pension or an endowment policy, would have 
needed to be made by direct debit or standing order to the life assurance company. In 
addition, the premium payments would have been the same amount each month, which the 
illustrations indicate would have been around £40 for the pension policy; significantly less 
than the payments recorded in the payment book. Furthermore, the book has an account 
number detailed on it, which doesnt match the number of Mrs Hs policy. As such, I cant 
conclude the payment book evidences payments to the Phoenix policy and it cant be taken 
to indicate how much money was paid toward that policy or that it had a value at any point.
The illustrations Mrs H has provided indicates that her lender discussed three types of 
mortgage with her; repayment, endowment-backed and pension-backed. The policy 
schedule shes provided is for a pension policy, not a mortgage endowment policy. Given its 
timing, I am satisfied that this points to her having opted to have a pension-backed 
mortgage, rather than an endowment-backed one.
As the policy schedule was issued to Mrs H there is no question that the personal pension 
policy was set up. However, if only a small number of premiums were paid, given the 
charges associated with such policies, it is likely that the policy would have lapsed without 
value. Following that happening, Phoenix would have needed to keep records of the policy 
for six years to comply with the Regulators requirements. However, as data protection 
regulations require a business not to hold information for longer than it is necessary, there 
would have been an imperative for records to be deleted after the minimum retention period. 
I cant find Phoenix in the wrong because it no longer has a record of the policy.
I am satisfied that Phoenix completed a search of its systems and didnt find any record of 
the policy. As such, this indicates the policy has not existed for in excess of six years. Mrs H 
has said she was told many years ago that the policy didnt exist, which would again indicate 
the policy hasnt been in force with a value for a long time. In the circumstances, I cant 
require Phoenix to act as though the policy exists with a value and provide some benefit to 
Mrs H.
Phoenix confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and said it had no further comment to 
make.
Mrs H acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision. She asked that Phoenix be required 
to search for policy information held in her maiden name. Our Investigator confirmed this had 
already been done and no records had been found. Mrs H made no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision. 
Having done so, and in light of no further evidence or comment having been made by the parties, I remain satisfied the evidence indicates the policy Mrs H took out has not existed 
with a value for many years. As such, I cant require Phoenix to provide any policy benefits 
to Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 
19 October 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman