DRN-4213307
The complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Services Limited (BG) sold him an appliance insurance 
policy without knowing whether parts were available for any repairs he might need.
What happened
In 2011, Mr C bought HomeCare Four boiler cover underwritten by British Gas Insurance 
Limited for his tenanted property. The policy also provided cover for gas appliances - the fire 
and hob. As Mr Cs complaint is about the information provided at sale and renewal of a 
product, Ive considered his complaint against the administrator, British Gas Services 
Limited.
In 2022, BG said it was unable to repair Mr Cs damaged gas fire because the parts were 
obsolete. He complained that BG had sold him a policy without knowing whether it would be 
able to provide the cover for his gas appliances. BG confirmed that it had information about 
boiler parts availability, but it didnt proactively check availability of parts for appliances.
Mr C didnt think BGs response was good enough. He said hed been paying for appliance 
cover since 2011 and for all that time BG wouldnt have known whether it could repair or 
replace parts. He asked for a refund of the premium for his gas fire cover dating back to the 
start of the policy.
BG refunded the premium to the start of the policy year in line with the terms and conditions, 
but it didnt think a refund of the premium for previous years was due. Thats because the 
policy had provided cover during those years, including annual checks.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think BG had done anything wrong because it refunded the premium 
in line with the policy. 
But Mr C didnt agree. He stressed that his complaint was about BG selling him the policy 
without knowing if it could fulfil its responsibilities under it. Mr C wanted BG to refund all 
premiums relating to his appliance cover from the start of the policy, totalling around £1,000.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive concentrated on Mr Cs 
complaint that BG mis-sold the policy.
Rather than repeat the detail of the complaint, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. Our rules dont require me to comment on every piece of information, but I will 
make reference to specific items where I think it will help me explain my decision.
The key issue is that after finding his gas fire couldnt be repaired under the policy because 
parts were obsolete, Mr C complained BG had sold him a policy without knowing whether it 
could fulfil its responsibilities. Mr C has been quite clear in saying his complaint is not about 
whether BG handled his annual service and offered a refund in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy: rather he doesnt think BG made him aware of possible limitations 
on cover and therefore it mis-sold the appliance cover.
Evidence of the original sale hasnt been provided, although Ive seen the renewal 
documents for policy year 2022. In its response to Mr C, BG doesnt claim to check for 
availability of appliance parts, so I have no reason to doubt that BG renewed Mr Cs policy 
each year without knowing whether the gas fire parts were obsolete. 
Because of this, Mr C thinks BG mis-sold the policy to him. That is, he thinks he was paying 
for cover for the gas fire BG might not ever have been able to repair. 
Ive looked at the policy booklet to see what cover BG sold to Mr C, concentrating on the 
matter of the gas fire cover. The appliance cover includes an annual service which is a 
requirement for tenanted properties. It also gives detail of what BG will do if a repair is 
needed but original parts arent available. This includes sourcing different brand products 
with similar functionality. 
In the event that the appliance is no longer serviceable, the relevant policy premium will be 
refunded back to the last service or the start of the policy year.
Ive thought about what Mr C said regarding BGs ability to check for availability of parts 
before selling the policy. Even if BG did complete a check at the point of sale, parts can 
become obsolete at any time. And given the range of appliances and generic parts available, 
it wouldnt be reasonable to expect BG to routinely check at each sale or policy renewal for 
parts that might never be needed.
So, having considered the evidence available and what I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances, Im minded to conclude that BG didnt unfairly sell Mr C a policy. The policy it 
sold to him provided the annual service checks required of landlords offering a property for 
rental. If the appliance had been deemed obsolete at any point, the premium wouldve been 
refunded to the start of the policy year. So Mr C wouldnt have been charged for a service 
that BG couldnt provide. This is what happened at Mr Cs 2022 annual service.
For these reasons, I dont think the evidence supports Mr Cs view that the policy was mis-
sold, so I dont plan to ask BG to refund his premium back to the start of the policy in 2011.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
BG didnt have any further comments to make.
Mr C didnt agree with the outcome. He said BG collects premiums despite not knowing whether it can provide cover for the appliance. Therefore, Mr C thinks BGs actions will only 
change in response to a financial penalty or a contractual change in wording.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C hasnt changed his view and he still believes BG is mis-selling its policy. In my 
provisional decision, I explained why I didnt think it was unreasonable for BG to check 
availability of boiler parts but not all other gas appliances. I also pointed out that the policy 
provides for an annual appliance safety check, which BG does carry out. I know Mr C would 
like BG to include a number of statements at policy sale to explain that it doesnt know 
whether a particular gas appliance will be covered. But as Ive already said, given the wide 
range of appliances, and the fact that Mr C held his policy for over ten years, I wouldnt 
reasonably expect BG to check availability of parts until needed. Im satisfied its refund of 
premiums back to the renewal date is built into the terms and conditions to address this. 
If the appliance passed the safety check the year before, it was working. So BG had 
provided the policy cover for Mr C that he paid for up to that point. As is the case here, when 
BG became aware it wasn't working, it offered to refund that years policy premium for the 
appliance cover. This indicates to me that Mr C hasnt lost out financially because of 
anything BG did or didnt do, so I have no reason to uphold the complaint.
Ive noted Mr Cs comment that BG will only behave responsibly if subject to a financial 
penalty. Its not within my remit to penalise BG. My role is to look at the individual complaint 
and, where appropriate, to put things right. Here, I note BG refunded the premium in line with 
the policy, so I cant say it treated Mr C unfairly. 
Ive noted but I wont address Mr Cs comment about how he would deal with the operational 
process and who hed deem responsible for getting things sorted out.
Finally, Mr C said in the absence of a financial penalty hed like me to demand that BG 
changes its policy wording to reflect its lack of certainty that it could repair gas appliances. 
Ive looked again at the policy. On page 15, BG sets out what it will do under the heading of 
Kitchen Appliance. Further, on pages 30 and 33, BG explains when it can cancel the whole, 
or part of, the policy. This includes when, we cant find the parts we need to repair your 
boiler, appliance or system, despite our attempts.
Taking the policy conditions into consideration alongside the fact that Mr C first took out his 
policy more than ten years ago, I dont think its unreasonable that BG couldnt have said at 
the point of sale that it might not be able to repair Mr Cs appliance. The parts may have 
been available then and only recently become obsolete.
I understand Mr C is aware of this, but he thinks BG should make it much clearer in its 
contracts. I can only ask BG to do something in direct relation to Mr Cs complaint about his 
policy, so I wont be making a demand of BG as Mr C requests. That said, BG is aware of Mr 
Cs suggestion.
Overall, my view remains the same. Im satisfied that BG handled Mr Cs claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, so I see no reason to ask it to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman