DRN-3669608
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen) didnt make her 
aware of any potential capital gains tax (CGT) liability on her investments or any need to 
manage it. This should have brought to her attention at the point she was advised, and the 
investments were made. She would like compensation for the omissions and CGT issues. 
Mrs P was advised by a predecessor business of Origen, the services of which Origen has 
taken responsibility. 
Mrs P is represented by her son, Mr P in bringing this complaint. Ill be referring to both in 
this decision. 
What happened
Mrs P made her investments in 2003. In 2019 she made a complaint to Origen about 
another issue and it became apparent that she had never been advised to manage her CGT 
liability. She thought this should have been a part of the basic advice or she should have 
been reminded. 
Mrs P complained to Origen who rejected the complaint. It had very little documentation from 
the time of the sale but said CGT would have been considered. It had contacted the product 
providers, but they also had limited documentation. However, Origen wasnt obliged to 
provide ongoing advice unless it was requested. It had regularly contacted Mrs P, but she 
didnt want any reviews.
Mrs P wasnt happy with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said;
The Client Service Agreement (CSA) Mrs P had with Origen didnt provide for 
ongoing CGT advice. That sort of advice wasnt included in the client relationship.
Origen had provided an example of the tax advice that would have been provided at 
the time of the recommendation and there was evidence that inheritance tax was 
assessed. So, on balance he thought the CGT liability would have been discussed at 
the outset but that any ongoing advice would have required a planning meeting.
He wasnt persuaded that Origen was under any obligation to provide CGT advice. 
There was evidence from two of the product providers about the information given at 
the outset.
Mr P didnt agree. He said;
He didnt think the investigator was being fair from the client perspective. For what 
Origen was being paid, simply phoning Mrs P to see if she was happy wasnt 
sufficient. He would have expected her to have been prompted to consider issues.
He wasnt satisfied the samples Origen had supplied applied to Mrs P. There was no 
evidence of similar being received by Mrs P. Origen doesnt have a complete file and 
Mrs P does.
He didnt think the average person in the street would agree with the outcome.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly for the 
same reasons. Ive explained why below.
I consider the crux of this complaint is that Mrs P wasnt advised about any CGT liability at 
the outset of her relationship with Origen or in any subsequent reviews. So, Ive mostly 
focussed on CSA that both parties agreed to at the outset and whether Origen complied with 
its part of the agreement. Mr P has made various points, some of which I havent addressed 
but I dont mean any disrespect to Mr P because of this. Ive considered and addressed what 
in my opinion are the issues pertinent to this complaint. 
Ive reviewed the CSA document that governed Mrs Ps relationship with Origen. Theres 
nothing in that agreement that suggests CGT advice would be given as part of the service at 
the level Mrs P agreed to. The agreement does say that advice could be given but this would 
incur a charge to the customer.
And I have also reviewed Origens Terms of Business and note they say the following  
When we have arranged any investment for which you have given instructions we 
will not give you any further advice unless you request it, but will be glad to advise 
you at any time you ask us to do so.
I think both documents make clear the level of service Mrs P could expect. After the initial 
advice, further advice could be given if Mrs P asked for it and the CSA makes clear there 
would be a cost involved. Mrs P chose not to take advantage of that facility. 
Ive looked at the service Mrs P received at the outset. Mr P says Mrs P was a good record 
keeper and has a full file. Origen has little documentary evidence from the time of the sale. 
However, I dont find this unusual bearing in mind the time since the sale  20 years  and 
businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. 
But Origen has said the potential for CGT would have been discussed at the advisory 
meeting with Mrs P. And it has given us some documents and examples of what it says    
Mrs P would have been provided with at the point of sale and that would have made her 
aware there were potential tax implications with the investments she was making. So, she 
would have been given sufficient information to have known of potential capital gains tax 
implications at that point. 
It has given us a sample of what another of its customers was provided with after an 
investment meeting that had been held in 2002  the year prior to Mrs P being given advice 
 and that was an Investment Recommendations document. I note that the advice given 
involved investments similar to the ones Mrs P took. 
The document shows a full page is given to the potential tax implications of the investments 
in certain circumstances and dependent upon the individuals tax situation. Origen has said 
this was templated information that would be provided to all customers making those types of investments. In the absence of the documents from Mrs Ps file that might indicate 
otherwise, I find this compelling. And as Origen has said this was standard at the time  and 
I have no reason to think otherwise  on the balance of probabilities I think it more likely than 
not Mrs P would have seen similar. 
Mr P has been provided with that sample but says this wasnt received by Mrs P. And at the 
time the advice was given  by the predecessor business of Origen  that format wouldnt 
have applied as it originated from Origen, so it isnt relevant to Mrs Ps sale. While I accept 
Mr P says theres no evidence that Mrs P received that document or similar I would find it 
unusual if no reference was made about the potential of CGT during Origens meeting with 
her or in the point of sale documents she did receive as it was standard information. 
So overall, I think it more likely that Mrs P would have received a document, which contained 
similar information to the sample recommendation letter, after the initial contact she had with 
Origen in order for her to have proceeded with the investments in the first instance. And on 
balance, I think it more likely that it would have included taxation information as part of that 
document. I also think it likely that the potential for CGT on those investments would have 
been discussed at the meeting Mrs P had with the adviser and would have further been 
included in the Key Features Documents or supplementary information for each of the funds. 
Turning to ongoing advice, Origen did tell us that from 2014 it contacted Mrs P on an annual 
basis;
January and December 2014  Mrs P didnt want a review or services.
July 2015  after an adviser appointment, a letter was sent confirming that as a result 
of the meeting Mrs P didnt require the adviser to carry out any further work.
April 2016  Mrs P didnt want a review or services. 
2017  Origen was unable to contact Mrs P.
May 2018 and June 2019  Face to face meetings were held and it was established 
at both meetings that further advice was required which would incur a fee. A 
reduction was negotiated for this. But Mrs P didnt engage when the Statement for 
Engagement was provided so the further advice wasnt carried out. 
Mr P has said that Mrs P was entitled to receive more than an annual phone call to make 
sure that Mrs P was happy with the service she was receiving. He said Origen should have 
been nudging her to consider issues that might be important. But I dont agree. This wasnt 
the service that was offered and agreed to at the outset. I wouldnt expect a business whose 
relationship with a customer was for one off advice, unless further advice was requested by 
the customer, could go about potentially seeking such business. The relationship  with the 
exception of the advice given at the outset  was non-advisory unless prompted by Mrs P. 
Taking all of the above into account, and in the individual circumstances of the complaint I 
dont have sufficient evidence to show that Origen has acted outside of the agreement it had 
with Mrs P with regard to any CGT advice. No doubt Mrs P will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I hope I have been able to explain how I have reached that decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman