DRN-2657985
The complaint
Mr T complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt send him 
confirmation when he settled his hire purchase agreement early.
What happened
Mr T says he contacted VWFS in July 2020 as he wanted to settle his hire purchase 
agreement early. VWFS confirmed the total amount owing and Mr T made two payments for 
the settlement amount  one payment was made on 10 July 2020 and another payment was 
made on 11 July 2020. Mr T is unhappy that it took VWFS several weeks to acknowledge 
that the payments had been received. Mr T said he spent those weeks worrying that his 
payments hadnt been received. Mr T also says VWFS owe him an overpayment which was 
made towards the agreement.
VWFS say it takes 10-14 days for the agreement to close, once its been settled. Its then at 
this point a confirmation letter is sent out in writing to the customer. VWFS say they 
processed the confirmation letter on 24 July 2020 which was then sent to the consumer on 
27 July 2020. Therefore, the letter was sent within the timescales they allow. VWFS 
apologised that their service didnt meet Mr Ts expectations and offered him £40 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr T declined the gesture of goodwill offer as he said it isnt about the compensation. And 
instead, is about the lazy and incompetent service provided by VWFS.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts concerns. She said she didnt think VWFS had done 
anything wrong, as the letter was sent within the timescales VWFS had confirmed. She also 
thought the £40 gesture of goodwill offer was fair in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr T disagreed. In summary, he said he tried to contact VWFS several times to confirm the 
payments had been received, but he wasnt able to successfully get an answer. He also said 
he didnt believe the letter was sent on the 24 July 2020, as he received it several days, if 
not weeks, after this date. Mr T reiterated he waited nearly three weeks to find out that his 
payments hadnt been lost and that he was considerably worried during this time. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from what VWFS have explained that there is 10-14 day timescale for an 
agreement to close once its been settled. Following the closure of the agreement, VWFS 
have confirmed that theyll send a letter to their customer confirming settlement. VWFS have 
provided information to show the letter was generated on 24 July 2020 and was then sent on 
27 July 2020  VWFS say the reason the letter was sent three days after it was generated is 
because its issued by an external supplier.
I can appreciate Mr T wanted confirmation of the payments being received soon after hed 
made them, especially as the payments were for a considerable amount. I can also 
understand the worry this may have caused Mr T. VWFS internal notes show Mr T sent 
more than one email asking for confirmation that the payments had been received, but these 
werent responded to. VWFS apologised that they hadnt responded to Mr Ts emails and 
explained this was as a result of reduced staff due to the recent pandemic.
Whilst I can understand the concerns Mr T had, I dont think VWFS have done anything 
wrong in relation to providing him with confirmation in the time that they did. I say this 
because the letter was generated within the timescale that VWFS have provided. I note Mr T 
says he didnt receive this letter until some days, if not weeks, after the date of the letter. I 
cant say for certain what this delay was as a result of. However, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me the letter wasnt sent by VWFS or their external supplier. So, I cant hold them 
responsible for the delay Mr T complains of.
I can see VWFS set out to Mr T what his options were when he expressed an interest in 
settling his hire purchase agreement early. And I can see they provided him with details such 
as the early settlement figure and ways in which he can make the payment. I think VWFS 
couldve perhaps confirmed in this email their process once the agreement has been settled 
- they couldve explained to Mr T that he may not receive confirmation of settlement straight 
after the payments were made. Nonetheless, whilst I think VWFS couldve set out 
expectations to Mr T in this email, I dont think theyve done anything wrong for reasons Ive 
already explained.
Mr T says VWFS owe him an overpayment that hed made. I can see from VWFS contact 
notes, that Mr T queried whether he needed to make the direct debit payment which was 
due on 1 July 2020. VWFS responded and said theyll refund the payment taken on 1 July 
2020, as long as they received payment before the settlement figure expired. VWFS have 
provided information a statement of account which shows the July payment was paid and 
then refunded to the account. Having considered this evidence, I think its more likely than 
not the overpayment was refunded.
I note Mr T says his concern isnt about the compensation offered and is more about VWFS 
service. Our role isnt to punish or fine a business for their mistake or standard of service. 
Rather, it is the role of this service to ensure a fair and reasonable outcome is reached, 
when considering the circumstances of the dispute. In the circumstances of this complaint, I 
wont be asking VWFS to make any further payments of compensation as I think £40 is fair. 
Mr T was caused some inconvenience when trying to speak to VWFS, but they also did 
provide the letter within the timescales they quote.
My final decision
For the reason explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman