DRN-3828671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs L were contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs L decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In 2022 the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ls behalf under section 75 and 140 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs L to enter into the contract with P and made their relationship with 
Shawbrook unfair. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The amount generated from the feed- in-tariff would cover the monthly repayment of 
the finance.
Value of property would increase.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it thought the claim had been made 
out of time. The CMC then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service since 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Shawbrooks response.  
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They said that the claim under 
section 140 of the act had been brought in time. But they did not think the complaint should 
be upheld. The CMC asked for a decision because Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with this. As 
an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using 
credit. 
Section 140 gives the courts power to determine whether the relationship between 
the creditor and the debtor was unfair to the debtor.
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr and Mrs L and P, as the supplier, 
are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
As Mr and Mrs L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 and 140 applies to this transaction. So, they can claim against Shawbrook in 
relation to misrepresentation or breach of contract by P, or if their relationship with 
Shawbrook was unfair on Mr and Mrs L.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. The CMC says that 
misrepresentations by P caused the relationship between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs L to 
be unfair on them. 
Im satisfied that the claim under section 140 of the Act was made within the timeframes 
allowed under law and within our rules. So, Ive looked at the complaint with regards to 
whether there was a misrepresentation that created unfairness.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs L say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Ls testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr and 
Mrs Ls version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs L were told that the cost of the system was 
£8,906.10. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,906.10. The monthly payment was 
£98.20. The total amount of credit is £8,906.10 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £17,676.00.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Ls recollections, Im satisfied that 
he were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote, and 
the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,906.10, it 
would cost Mr and Mrs L more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest-
bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs L have said that they were told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as 
well as the Mr and Mrs Ls recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide 
what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs L could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs L could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £456.11, which results in an average monthly income of £38.00. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £98.20. As a result, Im not able to conclude that 
the Mr and Mrs L were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs L could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £323.01 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £779.12. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for most of 
the first year.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs L entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £96.60. For 
each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£96.60, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs L could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits they could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments, and would not do so until year 9. 
This supports my finding above that Mr and Mrs L werent told that the FIT payment would 
cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ls version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs L that the system would be self-funding. In doing 
so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs L were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 16 the overall benefits that 
Mr and Mrs L could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs L that the system would pay for 
itself by the end of year 16, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to 
enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs L. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ls FIT statements and 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr and Mrs L havent been receiving the financial returns they may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system 
has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2004 to 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs L 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs L entered into the 
contract.
The CMC has suggested it was a misrepresentation to say that the value of the property 
would be increased by the addition of the system. I am not persuaded that was a 
misrepresentation. Mr and Mrs L will set the asking price if they decide to sell the property 
and can take into account the system when doing so. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs L 
to enter into the contract for the system. And since there was no misrepresentation by P, I do 
not think a court would find there was an unfair relationship between Shawbrook and Mr and 
Mrs L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman