DRN-4199516
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) failed to find a leak in their
home following a claim on their home insurance policy, which they say meant they carried
out unnecessary repairs.
Aviva are the underwriters of Mr C and Mrs Cs policy; that is, it is their insurer. Part of
this complaint concerns the actions of Avivas agents. As Aviva has accepted its
accountable for the actions of its agents, in my decision, any reference to Aviva includes
the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C found water under their hallway flooring, which was causing damage to the
downstairs of their home. It seems Mr C and Mrs Cs own plumber said there was a leak
from some cold water pipes, so they contacted Aviva to make a claim.
The plumber Aviva sent to assess Mr C and Mrs Cs claim said there was a leak but a
specialist leak detection company would be needed to find it. The leak detection company
Aviva instructed reported it could find no leaks. Instead, its report said there was a possible
rising damp issue.
When Aviva got this report, it phoned Mr C to say it couldnt take the claim any further.
During the call, Aviva and Mr C discussed the issue of rising damp and, later on, I
understand Avivas plumber gave Mr C details of some damp-proof specialists it had used in
the past.
Mr C and Mrs C then had damp proofing work carried out in their home by a third-party
contractor at a cost of just under £4,300. At around this point, Mr Cs brother (who is 
representing them in this complaint) became aware of what was happening and got involved. 
He inspected Mr C and Mrs Cs home and was sure there was a significant underfloor water 
leak. He asked Aviva to send out the leak detection company again, which it did.
In its second report, the leak detection company said there was a leak in the hot water line
from the utility room sink. Aviva has since accepted Mr C and Mrs Cs claim for the damage
the leak caused.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to Aviva about what had happened, saying Aviva had advised
them to get the damp proofing work done, which was unnecessary. They also complained
about the negligence and poor diagnosis in Avivas first leak detection report.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. It said it had followed a full trace and
access procedure during the first inspection and could take no responsibility for the damp
proofing work Mr C and Mrs C subsequently had done by the third-party contractor.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr C and Mrs C complained to us. In his first view, the
investigator who looked at their complaint upheld it in part. He didnt think Aviva was
responsible for Mr C and Mrs Cs damp proofing costs. But he did think Aviva had missed
the opportunity to identify the leak first time round. He said Aviva should pay Mr C and Mrs C
£250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused them.
Both Mr C and Mrs C and Aviva disagreed with our investigators view and made further
points. In his second view, our investigator didnt uphold any part of Mr C and Mrs Cs
complaint. He said it was for Mr C and Mrs C to identify where the leak came from and,
given where it was found on the second inspection, he didnt think Avivas first report was
poor.
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed. They said, among other things, there was clear evidence of a 
leak when the leak detection company first visited. And they say had Aviva been more 
diligent they wouldnt have incurred the costs of the subsequent damp proofing work.
So Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional decision of 24 May 
2023, I explained why I intended to uphold part of Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. Both Mr C 
and Mrs C and Aviva have given me comments on my provisional decision, which has now 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold part of Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. Thats because,
based on what Ive seen so far, I think Aviva failed to identify the leak at the time of the
first leak detection inspection, which has caused Mr C and Mrs C distress and 
inconvenience. As I said in my provisional decision:
Mr C and Mrs Cs home insurance policy included cover for trace and access. This is cover
for finding the source of a leak and putting right any damage caused in finding it.
From Avivas plumbers notes, it seems Mr C and Mrs C had called their own plumber after
they saw their skirting boards and carpet in the hallway were wet. The notes say this
plumber said the leak was from the cold water pipes.
Avivas plumber noted a water stain on the stairway that fed through to the utility room. His
notes say there was a leak in the hallway that had caused damage to the kitchen and utility
room. He said that leak detection would be needed to find the source due to central heating
pipes being located in this area also. 
Avivas leak detection company then carried out a survey. Its report said the survey involved 
using a moisture meter, an audible listening device and a thermal imaging camera. It said 
elevated moisture was recorded to all lower walls of the property. It said thermal imaging 
did not show any anomalies and the listening device did not register any audible 
anomalies that could indicate possible leaks.
The report went on to say plaster samples from the hallway and utility room had then been
taken which were positive for nitrates in the hallway. It said this positive result was an
indication of the ingress of possible rising damp issues. It concluded there was no leak to
any internal or external pipework.
As Ive mentioned, it was on the basis of this report Aviva then called Mr C to say it could
take his claim no further as no leak had been found and rising damp wasnt something Mr C
and Mrs Cs policy covered them for.It was a little while after this  and after Mr C and Mrs C had had damp proofing work started
 that Mr Cs brother became involved. I dont know what Mr Cs brothers formal
qualifications are but, in a call with Aviva, Mr C says hes a civil engineer. Mr Cs brother
says that, having been in the construction industry for most of his working life he knew the
issue couldnt be rising damp because of the age and construction of Mr C and Mrs Cs
home. He says:
I  did some floor screed excavations as there is microbore pipework under the screed
servicing the central heating, whilst I didnt find the leak I was now sure it was a significant
underfloor water leak due to the amount of water sitting below the screed.
Mr Cs brother contacted Aviva who arranged a second inspection by the leak detection
company. In its second report, the leak detection company noted (among other things)
major signs of water damage. It says there was water pooling in the access holes (which I
think were the excavations Mr Cs brother had dug) that indicates a leak and not rising
damp. It says a thermal camera was used and an anomaly was located in the utilities room
from the central heating. It went on to say:
Acoustically water could be heard running from the pipework in the utilities room. A leak on
the hot water pipe below the utilities room unit was suspected.  Access was then made to
the concrete to reveal the hot and cold water supply to the sink. A leak was found on the hot
water line for the utilities sink.
Mr Cs brother says the leak detection operative who carried out the second inspection said
immediately this is not rising damp and, within two hours, had traced the leak. He also says
that, during the first inspection, the leak detection company pressure tested the cold water
system but not the hot water system. And hes made the point that there was water staining
to the hall stairway  something Avivas plumber had also noted  which wouldnt be in
keeping with rising damp.
From the information Ive seen so far, I think Aviva missed the opportunity to identify the leak
at the time of the first leak inspection. Before that inspection, Mr C and Mrs Cs plumber had
said there was a leak and so had Avivas plumber (although both suggested it was to do with
the cold water system). And the second leak detection operative found the leak (although it
was in the hot water system).
There are also clear differences in the findings made in the first and second leak detection
reports. The first report found no anomalies with thermal imaging, the second did  and the
anomaly was found in the area where the leak was subsequently detected. The first report 
found no acoustic anomalies, the second one did  again, in the area where the leak was
subsequently detected. From these differing findings, I can only conclude there were failings
in how the first leak detection survey was carried out.
Aviva doesnt think its done anything wrong. It says, among other things:
By rights it is down to any policyholder to call and tell us if making a claim where they think
the leak is coming from and to detect the leak. If we do decide to assist and offer a leak
detection survey, we will not keep searching and searching until a leak is found. A leak at the
bottom of the stairs is a very abstract place to detect a leak.
But Mr C and Mrs Cs policy gave them trace and access cover, which is designed to trace
the source of the leak. Its also something Avivas plumber said was needed. The leak wasnt
at the bottom of the stairs (although thats where Mr C and Mrs C first noticed the water)  it
was in the hot water supply to the utilities room sink. And Avivas plumber had noted the
water stain on the stairway that fed through to the utility room.So the comments Aviva has made about this complaint dont change my view that there
were failings in its first leak detection survey. I think those failings caused Mr C and Mrs C
significant distress and inconvenience. With such extensive water damage to their home, it
mustve been very worrying indeed for them to think the cause could be rising damp. And
they also had the inconvenience of having wet floorboards and no proper flooring or skirting
boards for a number of months. I understand Mr C and Mrs C are elderly and have health
issues, which I think will have heightened the impact Avivas failings had on them. In these
circumstances, and based on what Ive seen so far, I think its fair and reasonable to award
Mr C and Mrs C £500 for the distress and inconvenience Aviva has caused them.
The other issue I must consider here is whether Aviva should reimburse Mr C and Mrs C the
cost of the subsequent damp proofing work they had done. I know Mr Cs brother feels very
strongly Aviva should be responsible for this. But, from what Ive seen so far, I take a
different view. The first leak detection report refers to a possible rising damp issue. It isnt
definitive. Also, notes Aviva has sent us from the call it had with Mr C when the claim was
turned down and rising damp was discussed say:
Advised that unfortunately there is nothing further we can do as insurance company as no
leak but i will have a word with [its plumber] if he knows of any Damp specialist that could
help the customer by means of saying if they need and not take advantage. Customer 
thanked me for calling and trying to help and he understands that if rising damp
we cannot assist either.
From this record, I dont think Aviva told Mr C he had rising damp in his home  its
discussed only as a possibility. Nor do I think Aviva told Mr C he had to have the damp
proofing work done. From what Ive seen, I think Aviva was trying to help Mr C out by asking
its plumber to give him details of damp specialists whod be able to say if the damp proofing
was needed and who wouldnt take advantage of the couple. At the end of the day, I think it
was Mr C and Mrs Cs decision to approach a third-party contractor about the damp
proofing. And if the damp proofing was unnecessary, then I think thats an issue between
Mr C and Mrs C and the third-party contractor.
Mr Cs brother has argued that, had the leak been found on the first inspection, Mr C and
Mrs C wouldnt have had the damp proofing work done. But, because I think that at the end
of the day that decision was Mr and Mrs Cs, I dont think its a reasonably foreseeable
consequence of the failings in Avivas first inspection. So, based on what Ive seen so far, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to reimburse Mr C and Mrs C the
cost of the damp proofing work.
Mr C and Mrs C havent given me any new evidence in response to my provisional decision 
but, through Mr Cs brother, have reiterated some of the points theyve made before. Mr Cs 
brother says Aviva misdiagnosed the problem even though it was obvious to anyone with 
experience, stated it was rising damp, closed down the claim with no further 
communication and failed to engage and give their customer proper support after this.    
Mr Cs brother also says the only course open to Mr C and Mrs C after the claim was 
closed was to get the damp proofing work done. He says this wouldnt have been needed 
had Aviva been more diligent. And he says Avivas catastrophic failings caused Mr C and 
Mrs C, who (as Ive said) are both elderly, unnecessary expense, hardship and distress.
Aviva also hasnt given me any new evidence in response to my provisional decision but has 
reiterated its position. It says it didnt advise Mr C and Mrs C to get the damp proofing work 
done but asked an agent involved in the claim if they knew of anyone who could help Mr C, as he was just going to go through [a trade directory]. It says this was so Mr C and Mrs C 
could rule out rising damp. 
Aviva also says it was Mr C and Mrs Cs own plumber who said there was a leak, not 
Avivas, and that no leak was found until its leak detection specialists carried out a second 
inspection. Aviva also says Mr C and Mrs C have been happy with everything we have done 
it is Mr C (sic) brother who has the issues.
In relation to Mr C and Mrs Cs comments, I agree there were failings in the original 
inspection. But I dont think Aviva misdiagnosed the problem or stated Mr C and Mrs C 
had rising damp  only that it was a possibility. From what Ive seen, there was some 
communication by phone between Mr C and Aviva when the claim was turned down. And 
once the claim was closed, I wouldnt have expected Aviva to offer Mr C and Mrs C further 
support. Finally, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I dont agree that getting 
the damp proofing work done was the only course open to Mr C and Mrs C following the 
first leak detection inspection. I think this was a choice they made with the third-party 
contractor who carried out the damp proofing work.
In relation to Avivas comments, Mr C and Mrs C signed our complaint form, so this is their 
complaint. And theyve authorised Mr Cs brother to act on their behalf, which theyre entitled 
to do. Avivas desk claim form refers to an escape of water from a hot or cold pipe in the 
floor screed and goes on to say theres a leak from the hallway that has caused damage to 
the utility room and kitchen. So, although the leak detection specialist didnt find the source 
of the leak on first inspection, from these notes it seems clear there was one, which was only 
traced at the second inspection.
So while Ive thought carefully about the comments both Mr C and Mrs C and Aviva have 
made on my provisional decision, they dont change my final conclusions on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision (which now form part of this 
final decision) I uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay them £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell it    
Mr C and Mrs C have accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Aviva Insurance Limited must 
pay simple interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman