DRN-3384392
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain Barclays Bank UK PLC gave them misleading information and 
failed to offer them options about paying their mortgage balance at the end of the term. And
theyre unhappy with how Barclays communicated with them when they complained.
What happened
In 2004 Mr H and Mrs H took out a part interest only, part capital repayment offset 
mortgage for around £71,500 with Barclays. It had a term of 13 years and came to an end 
in around May 2017.
Mr H and Mrs H couldnt pay off the interest only part of the mortgage straight away 
because their planned repayment vehicle, an endowment policy, wasnt available. As a 
result, they owed Barclays around £52,000. Mr H and Mrs H cashed in some savings to pay 
off some of what they owed. And when they brought their complaint to this service, they 
owed around £8,000 on the mortgage and £4,000 in legal fees.
Mr H and Mrs H say they responded to a letter from Barclays asking them to get in touch to 
discuss their options. They were unhappy Barclays then failed to offer any options and only 
advised them to contact other agencies who might be able to help them. They complained 
about how they were treated when they asked Barclays about remortgaging and said 
Barclays didnt explain why their request was declined.
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy Barclays added legal fees to their account when they had 
another complaint with this service. Barclays said they werent under any obligation to put 
legal proceedings on hold but did so while this service investigated that complaint. They felt 
the fees theyd charged were fair and in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr H and Mrs H say Barclays only addressed correspondence about their complaint to       
Mr H, not Mrs H, which upset them. And they say they didnt get Barclays response to their 
complaint dated 11 November 2020, only letters before and after that date apologising for 
the delay in dealing with the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had treated Mr H and Mrs H unfairly in all the 
circumstances. Since they didnt accept our investigators view, I reviewed the complaint 
afresh and recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about whats happened. I can 
understand it was upsetting when they werent able to use the endowment policy 
to repay their mortgage and had to use funds theyd earmarked for other things.
The heart of Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint is that Barclays failed to offer them any options 
when their mortgage term ended and unfairly took legal action and charged them fees 
for doing so. Theyve raised some specific issues, namely:
Barclays sent letters which misled Mr H and Mrs H into thinking theyd offer 
them options at the end of their mortgage term, but they didnt
They unfairly raised Mr H and Mrs Hs hopes that it would be possible to 
remortgage, but the idea was turned down without discussion when they 
rang
Barclays unfairly charged Mr H and Mrs H legal fees when they had a 
complaint with this service
The handling of their complaint, including failing to send them a response 
and only addressing letters to Mr H
Ive considered the records Barclays have been able to provide. Unfortunately, not all the 
correspondence or the call Mr H and Mrs H have mentioned are available. But Im satisfied 
I have enough information to enable me to come to a provisional decision about whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint.
The starting point here is that under the terms of Mr H and Mrs Hs mortgage they were 
obliged to repay what theyd borrowed at the end of the term. Id expect a lender to treat 
its customers fairly at term end, give them a reasonable period of time to pay, give fair 
and reasonable consideration to any requests the borrower may make to help them, and 
only take possession proceedings as a last resort. Id expect a borrower to engage with 
the lender.
I can see Barclays were in regular contact with Mr H and Mrs H throughout much of their 
mortgage term to discuss arrears, which Mr H and Mrs H had unfortunately incurred. But 
Barclays records show that, after the term ended, they found it difficult initially to contact 
Mr H and Mrs H on telephone numbers they had for them. It wasnt until towards the end 
of 2017 and the beginning of 2018 that Barclays were able to discuss things with them.
At around that time, Mr H and Mrs H were looking into whether they had an endowment 
that would pay off what they owed and the possibility of remortgaging with another lender. 
Mr H and Mrs H say they asked Barclays about a term extension. Ive no reason to doubt 
that, although I cant see any record of that request. Even so, whilst no formal term 
extension was agreed, Barclays allowed Mr H and Mrs H time to find a way of repaying 
the balance before taking any action to recover what they were owed.
When they didnt hear anything more from Mr H and Mrs H by August 2018, despite 
attempts to get hold of them, Barclays instructed solicitors to take recovery action against 
them. Given the time that had passed since the term had ended, and since there was no 
news from Mr H and Mrs H about their plans to repay the mortgage, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to take that step then.
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy Barclays were taking legal action when they were pursuing a 
complaint with the Financial Ombudsman about their endowment policy. Mr H and Mrs H 
say Barclays initially refused to acknowledge they had another complaint with this service. It 
was only when this service got in touch about the other complaint they accepted one 
existed. And they then put action on hold. They say if Barclays had accepted what theyd 
told them, court action would have been prevented and no fees would have been incurred.
Barclays did put proceedings on hold between January and October 2019 until the outcome 
of their other complaint was known. Based on what I know so far, I think that was fair.The terms of the mortgage allowed Barclays to pass on to Mr H and Mrs H any legal fees 
they were charged in connection with their mortgage - provided they were reasonably 
incurred and reasonable in amount. Looking at the legal fees, any that were passed on to 
Mr H and Mrs H during the hold period related to work carried out before January 2019. 
And no charges have been raised since April 2020 or since weve been looking into this 
complaint. Based on the available information, the fees incurred dont appear to be
unreasonable overall. Barclays records suggest they reversed fees of around £3,000. Id 
ask them to provide a breakdown of the fees they are expecting Mr H and Mrs H to pay in 
response to this provisional decision.
It doesnt look as if Barclays took any further action until Mrs H contacted them in early 
March 2020. Although Mr H and Mrs H havent said when they contacted Barclays to 
discuss remortgaging, it looks as if it was on this call that Mrs H raised it. Barclays records 
suggest she had a detailed conversation with them, and I can understand it was 
disappointing Barclays didnt agree to remortgaging at the time. But there was no obligation 
on them to do so. And it looks as if they had concerns about lending to Mr H and Mrs Hs 
based on the arrears theyd had on their existing mortgage. Barclays offered to look at their 
income and expenditure to consider their options for repaying their existing mortgage, which 
I think was fair. From what Ive seen, Mr H and Mrs H didnt take that forward.
Mr H and Mrs H have complained Barclays letters misled them into thinking theyd offer 
them options at the end of their mortgage term and then failed to. They havent mentioned 
which letters they are complaining about, except a letter Barclays sent in November 2020 
which was about this complaint, not their account.
Barclays say theyve written to Mr H and Mrs H many times about their arrears. Theyve 
provided examples of those letters which contain information Barclays were obliged to 
include in line with relevant requirements, such as: any outstanding payments; the 
balance of the account; the possible consequences of failing to pay; and details of 
organisations to contact to get independent financial advice. I dont think the letters were 
unreasonable or unfair to Mr H and Mrs H in any way. They didnt say Barclays would be 
able to provide solutions Mr H and Mrs H would find satisfactory, just that they should 
contact Barclays to discuss what options might be available and how to get help if they 
needed it. As Ive explained, Barclays discussed things with Mr H and Mrs H as Id expect 
them to have done.
Mr H and Mrs H have had since around May 2017 to repay the balance of their mortgage. 
Fortunately, theyve managed to repay a significant amount from savings since March 2020. 
And I understand they may be able to pay an additional amount now. Id encourage Mr H 
and Mrs H to contact Barclays to discuss how they will repay the amount now outstanding.
And Barclays should continue to treat Mr H and Mrs H fairly while they arrange to pay the 
balance.
I acknowledge Mr H and Mrs H were upset Barclays only wrote to Mr H in response to the 
complaint they raised. And they say they didnt get Barclays response to their complaint 
until we sent them a copy. I understand that was disappointing, but it hasnt stopped us from 
looking at their complaint. Generally, this service cant consider complaints about how 
complaints are handled. So, I wont make any findings about that. 
I can understand Mr H and Mrs H have found their situation stressful. But, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Barclays have treated them unfairly. Bearing everything in mind, 
subject to the parties responses to this provisional decision, and whilst I understand it will 
be disappointing for Mr H and Mrs H, I dont intend to uphold their complaint.
My provisional decisionBased on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint.
Developments
In response to my provisional decision, Mr H and Mrs H said theyd always responded to 
Barclays letters and calls, but they werent able to answer their landline since they were 
both working at the time. They said Barclays wouldnt accept Mr H and Mrs H had another 
complaint with this service, even though they knew as theyd been given the complaint 
reference number. By the time this service contacted Barclays to confirm a complaint was 
ongoing, fees had already been added to their account. They hadnt heard the call I 
mentioned but felt the tone of Barclays correspondence was unsatisfactory. 
Barclays had no comments to make on my provisional decision but provided a breakdown of 
the fees Mr H and Mrs H incurred on their account, which reflects the information they sent 
previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for the parties responses to my provisional decision. I acknowledge what Mr H 
and Mrs H say about communicating with Barclays and Ive no reason to doubt it, although 
Barclays records show they found it difficult to contact Mr H and Mrs H initially, as I 
mentioned. Although, on review, Mr H and Mrs H were in contact with Barclays during 2018, 
they hadnt given any clear information about how they were going to repay the mortgage, 
and whether the endowment would be available, when Barclays decided to go ahead with 
court action in August 2018. Given the term of the mortgage had ended in around May 2017, 
I still dont think it was unreasonable for them to instruct solicitors when they did.
Overall, the parties comments dont add substantively to the information theyve previously 
provided or persuade me to change my outcome. So, for the reasons Ive set out here and in 
my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. Mr H and Mrs H have 
said they plan to make a further payment to clear their mortgage. Id encourage them to 
liaise with Barclays about that to make sure the right processes are followed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to accept or reject 
my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman