DRN-2614867
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited has handled and settled a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to cover the full cost of the claim or 
declare his car a total loss and waive the policy excess. 
What happened
Mr Rs car was damaged after it went through a flood and he made a claim on his policy. 
The car was assessed by a dealers garage and this report was reviewed by Admirals in-
house engineer. Admiral also had an independent engineer assess the car. He said that the 
car had previous damage and had been driven on causing the engine to seize. He 
recommended that the claim be settled by cash in lieu of repairs due to the overlapping 
damage. 
However, Admiral didnt communicate this decision to Mr R, and he was led to believe that 
his car would be repaired or declared a total loss. Due to the pandemic, there were delays in 
the claim and Mr R said hed been without his car for eleven months, but he still had to make 
finance repayments. Admiral paid Mr R £200 compensation for the confusion and stress 
caused by its level of communication. It also paid Mr R £20 for his calls and £30 for being 
without a courtesy car for three days. But Mr R was unhappy with the cash in lieu payment. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr R 
would have had to make his lease payments regardless of the claim, so she didnt think 
Admiral was responsible for those. She thought Admiral had provided Mr R with a hire car 
for most of the time until his claim was settled. She thought Admiral was entitled to decide to 
settle the claim by cash in lieu of repairs. And she thought Admirals compensation for its 
communication issues and the confusion this caused was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R wanted Admiral to pay for all the repairs or declare his car a total loss. Admiral said 
that the cars engine had seized due to driving on following impact to the underside of the 
car. It said this wasnt covered by the policy. But it accepted the claim for accidental damage 
and paid Mr R cash instead of repairing the car for what the independent assessor estimated 
the repair cost would be. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional 
repairs.
I can see that Admiral initially accepted Mr Rs version of events. This was supported by the 
recovery agents report that there was water in two of the engine cylinders. But when the car 
was taken to a dealers garage, the engineer said there were no signs of flood damage, but 
there was impact damage beneath the car that had caused the oil to drain and the engine to 
seize.
Admiral then had an independent assessor inspect the car. I think thats fair and reasonable 
where there are conflicting views about damage and repairs. He said that the damage 
beneath the car was significant and had led to a slow oil leak. He thought there was 
evidence that the oil had been topped up. So I think Mr R must have been reasonably aware 
of the problem. But Mr R hadnt had the car repaired or made a claim as he was entitled to. 
Instead the assessor thought he had driven on causing further damage.
I can see that under the General Conditions in Mr Rs policy booklet he must protect his car 
from loss or damage and keep it roadworthy. I think that the engineering evidence shows 
that Mr R didnt do this as he drove on rather than having his car repaired. And so I cant say 
it was unfair or unreasonable for Admiral to decline to pay for the driving on damage that 
followed the underneath of Mr Rs car being hit. 
I think Admiral reasonably considered the evidence available before making its decision on 
the claim. So I think it justified its decision to pay only for the cost of repairs to the damaged 
sump and not the seized engine. And, as the two areas of damage overlapped, I think 
Admiral was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to settle Mr Rs claim by paying him 
cash in lieu of repairing his car. So I cant say that Admiral needs to repair Mr Rs car 
completely or pay him for its total loss. 
Mr R thought Admiral should waive his policy excess. But I dont agree as the excess is 
always the first part of a claim to be paid. I can see that Admiral reduced the excess to the 
amount that it would be paid if the car had been repaired by an approved repairer even 
though the car had been taken to a non-approved repairer. I think that was fair and 
reasonable as this was Mr Rs preference. 
Mr R said hed been without his car for some time and this had caused him losses as hed 
had to pay his finance. But I can see that loss of use is excluded from cover under the policy. 
And I think Mr R would have had to pay his finance in any case.
As it was, Admiral agreed, in the circumstances of the pandemic, to provide Mr R with a hire 
car for the duration of his repairs. As no repairs should have been authorised, I think this 
was outside the policy terms and conditions. So Mr R had 133 days hire and Admiral paid 
him £30 compensation for three days when his hire was mistakenly cancelled. I think thats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances as it kept Mr R mobile for most of the time until his 
claim was settled. 
Admiral agreed that there had been miscommunication and confusion in its handling of the 
claim. I think Admiral should have maintained its decision following the independent 
assessors report and settled the claim then as cash in lieu of repairs. But this wasnt 
communicated to Mr R at the time. Instead, he was variously led to believe that his car would 
be repaired and that it would be declared a total loss. So I think Admiral gave Mr R wrong 
information on more than one occasion. 
I can also see that there some delays in the claim. There were initial delays whilst the car 
was assessed, which I think were unavoidable due to the further damage that was 
discovered. 
There was then a delay whilst the garage waited for Admirals decision on whether or not to 
authorise repairs. The garage then closed because of pandemic restrictions. When it 
reopened, the garage tried to contact Mr R but without success. He was then told that 
repairs wouldnt be authorised and so it was up to Mr R to decide what to do next. Admiral pad Mr R £200 compensation for these errors and £20 for his phone calls. I think 
that was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award in similar 
circumstances. I dont require Admiral to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman