DRN-4157230
The complaint
Mr N has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc allowed him to open two Help to 
Buy (H2B) ISAs and that, without giving him advance notice, it converted one into a cash 
ISA upon realising its mistake.
What happened
Mr N opened both H2B ISAs at the same time in November 2019. It was in late 2021, whilst 
investigating an unrelated complaint, that Nat West noticed he had two accounts, contrary to 
Inland Revenue rules. So, it amended one into a cash ISA.
Mr N was in receipt of means tested Government benefits at the time. Shortly after the 
creation of the cash ISA, Mr N was informed by the Department of Works and Pensions 
(DWP) that they were investigating his benefit claims due to failing to declare capital.
In response to Mr Ns complaint, Nat West accepted that he should not have been able to 
set up two accounts and that it should have identified this error at the time of processing the 
applications. It paid him £50 to say sorry for that. But Nat West said that it hadnt done 
anything wrong in converting the second account to a standard cash ISA as that was in line 
with its correct processes.
Our investigator thought that Nat West had acted reasonably. Mr N disagrees with the 
investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West has accepted that its processes failed to flag up that Mr N had opened two 
accounts, so thats not in dispute.
The application process contained a declaration: I understand that I can only hold one Help 
to Buy ISA at any time. 
Mr N has said there was a problem with the website and that it wasnt confirming that a 
successful application had been made, so he kept applying, which is probably why he ended 
up with the two accounts. He says he thought the system would only allow him to open one 
account.
But he paid the maximum opening amount of £1,200 into each account and I think he 
probably would have noticed that money going out twice if he wasnt expecting it. So, even if 
it happened in error, I think that Mr N should have quickly understood that he had two ISA 
accounts. And given the publicity around H2B ISAs and the declaration that hed agreed to 
when applying, that should have raised alarm bells for Mr N that he probably had something 
to which he wasnt entitled.
Mr N has said he recollects receiving a call from Nat West about a week after opening the 
accounts. He says he was asked if he knew hed opened two accounts. He responded: 
Have I? Is that ok? to which he was told that it was ok but only one of them could be used 
to get the Government grant and the other would just act as a high interest savings account.
Nat West cant locate a copy of this call. Additionally, we asked Nat West for copies of any 
contact notes between the account being opened and the end of March 2020 but there is no 
record of any contact with Mr N during that period. Based on the available evidence, I find it 
more likely than not that Nat West didnt call Mr N in relation to having two ISA accounts and 
that he must be mistaken in his recollection. Overall, Im satisfied that Nat West only realised 
he had two accounts in late 2021/early 2022.
Mr Ns is unhappy that Nat West automatically converted one of the accounts to a cash ISA 
without consulting him first. He says that by doing so, the funds became visible to the DWP, 
resulting in them taking action against him for potential benefit fraud. He says he would have 
liked the chance to explain the situation to the DWP in advance of the funds becoming 
visible to hopefully have avoided that situation.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr N has said but, on balance, I consider it reasonable 
that Nat West converted the account into a cash ISA at the first possible opportunity.
When Nat West discovered the second H2B ISA, it needed to resolve that issue as soon as 
possible. It wasnt responsible for what Mr N had or had not declared to the DWP when 
applying for benefits. So it wouldnt have been able to foresee any potential detriment to Mr 
N in moving the money into a cash ISA. If Mr N didnt want the cash ISA he could just 
change it to something else or withdraw the funds. 
Mr N says Nat West would have known he was on benefits because those payments were 
going into his current account. But it doesnt follow that Nat West would therefore conclude 
that it shouldnt correct the anomaly of the two H2B accounts as soon as possible or that 
changing one to a cash ISA would cause difficulties for his benefit claim. Nat Wests 
intention was to try and avoid Mr N facing problems later on when trying to claim the 
Governments H2B bonus.
I dont have the details of how the cash ISA came to the DWPs attention or when they 
approached Mr N. But in terms of the timing of the change to a cash ISA, Mr N would still 
have been able to approach the DWP at the point that it happened to explain the 
appearance of the savings and to make his case. So Im not persuaded that anything Nat 
West could have done would have made a difference to how the DWP has dealt with Mr N.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the £50 Nat West paid Mr N is appropriate 
compensation for the mistake of allowing two H2B ISAs to be set up and that it was 
reasonable for Nat West to convert the second ISA into a cash ISA when it did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman