DRN-2004092
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that CIS General Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on
her buildings insurance policy.
Mrs W is represented by Mr W.
What happened
In March 2019, during high winds, Mr and Mrs Ws front wall collapsed. They got in touch
with CIS to make a claim for the damage.
CIS appointed a surveyor to investigate the cause of the damage. The surveyor didnt think
the wall had collapsed due to the storm conditions. He felt the wall had been built too high.
He found the reason for the walls collapse was the proximity of large shrubs and trees to the
wall. He said the root growth from these shrubs and trees had undermined the strength of
the wall.
Based on the surveyors report, CIS turned down Mrs Ws claim. It said the policy didnt
cover damage which was caused over time or which was down to wear and tear. Mrs W
wasnt happy with CIS decision, so Mr W asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He noted there were
prevailing storm conditions around the time of the claim. He didnt think there was any
expert evidence to show that root growth was the main cause of the walls failure. He
thought CIS needed to provide clear evidence, such as photos, to show that roof growth had
undermined the wall. He recommended that CIS reassess Mrs Ws claim.
CIS disagreed. It didnt think the storm wind speeds were high enough to cause a wall to
collapse. It pointed to the photos which showed the size of the trees and their closeness to
the wall, which it said supported the surveyors findings. It said a sound wall shouldve been
able to withstand the wind speeds. So it didnt think the storm was the main cause of the
damage.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld.. I said:
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
CIS accepts there were wind speeds of around 54 or 55mph on the day the wall collapsed. It
also accepts that these winds would constitute storm conditions. Having checked local
weather records, I can see that there were a few periods of wind storm during the few weeks
before the wall fell down. The highest recorded wind speed was 56mph. This means I think
the answer to the first question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm?
I think that structural damage can sometimes be consistent with high wind speeds. CIS
doesnt think the recorded wind speeds were high enough to cause a sound wall to collapse.
So Ive moved on to consider whether I think it was fair for CIS to decide storm wasnt the
main cause of the damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally
call an insured event. In this case, Mrs Ws claimed for damage caused by a storm.
Damage caused by storm is covered by the terms of the policy. But for the claim to be paid,
CIS needs to be satisfied that the wall damage Mrs Ws claimed for was caused by the
storm.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But
insurers generally investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here.
CIS asked its surveyor to investigate the likely cause of the damage.
Ive carefully considered everything both parties have sent us. Im grateful for the photos of
the wall Mr W has provided and for the surveyors evidence CIS has given us.
The surveyor didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage. He found: there
were many trees and shrubs within 1m of the wallI also advised that the telling reason for
the wall coming down was the shrubs and trees and the root strength would undermine the
strength of the wall.
I can see from CIS notes that it asked the surveyor for more information about how the
shrubs and trees wouldve affected the wall. He said: When tree roots grow near walls the
roots get into the mortar of the wall footings and severely weaken the wall foundation and
when we get any kind of weather event like strong winds will then bring the wall down. I
would say that the wall coming down would of (sic) happened due to the weakness of the
footings which cant be seen.
Its clear the surveyor found, having inspected the wall and its surroundings, that the root
growth was the likely main cause of the walls collapse. His report is supported by the photos
he took which show the closeness of large trees and shrubs to the wall.
Im currently persuaded by the surveyors findings. Thats because its the only expert
evidence I have to show me whats most likely to have caused the wall to collapse. It looks
like the surveyor carried out a detailed inspection and clearly explained what he thought had
caused the damage. Mrs W hasnt so far provided any independent expert evidence to
counter the surveyors findings.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think it was fair for CIS to rely on the
surveyors report to conclude there wasnt any storm damage.
Mrs W has accidental damage cover on her policy. This is defined as: unexpected and
unintended damage caused by sudden means. While I know the collapse of the wall was
unintended and unexpected, I dont think I can fairly say the damage was caused by sudden
means. Tree roots growing into mortar and weakening a wall is a gradual process.Ive also noted that Mrs Ws policy includes a general exception which excludes cover for
loss or damage caused by wear and tear, or gradual causes. Given it seems the damage
happened gradually, I think the claim is specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, I currently think it was fair for CIS to turn down
her claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
CIS had nothing further to add.
Mrs W didnt accept my provisional findings. Mr W explained it wasnt a front wall  it was a 
side wall to the property. He said when theyd put fencing up to replace the wall, roots hadnt 
needed to be removed to get the posts put in. He felt the surveyor had already made a 
decision about the claim and hadnt looked at Mr Ws photos. The surveyor wouldnt have 
been able to see the wall footings, because they were covered in rubble. Mr W said theres a 
large tree at the bottom of the garden, but the top garden has shrubs and a small tree. He 
told us there is no visible root growth on the pavement. He feel its for CIS to prove the 
plants caused the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to apologise for wrongly referring to Mrs Ws front wall, rather than a wall at the 
side of the property within my provisional decision. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said on Mrs Ws behalf. I accept the larger tree 
may be some distance from the wall itself. Ive also considered what Mr W said about the 
lack of visible roots in the pavement and that roots didnt need to be removed when the new 
fencing was put in.
But as I explained in my provisional decision, I have to bear in mind the available expert 
evidence when deciding what I think is most likely to have happened. Mr W says the 
surveyor didnt look at his photos. Its possible this is the case. But the surveyor did take 
photos of the collapsed wall which were included in his report. Ive looked carefully at these 
photos. I can see large trees or shrubs close to the wall and theres visible greenery in the 
rubble. This tends to support his findings.
While there were strong winds at the time the wall collapsed, its still the case that the only 
expert evidence I have about the main cause of the damage is CIS surveyors report. He 
provided detailed findings about the most likely cause of the damage and so, Ive placed 
significant weight on it and the further evidence he gave to CIS.
Overall, on balance, it seems most likely that root growth had undermined and weakened the 
walls footings over time. Im persuaded, based on the expert evidence Ive seen, that this 
was the main cause of the damage.
So I still think it was fair for CIS to turn down Mrs Ws claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman