DRN-2761983
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank 
(Tesco Bank) handled his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) in 
relation to a training course.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr W enrolled in a training course with a provider who I will refer to as P. The 
price of the course was approximately £12,000. Around £2,400 of that amount was paid by 
Mr W using his Tesco bank credit card. The length of the course was approximately 12 
months. 
In November 2019, Mr W raised a S75 claim with Tesco Bank for the full amount of the 
course, as he said it had been mis-sold to him. In summary, he said the course was sold 
during a free event where, he said, he was promised that if he bought the 12-month course 
he would receive one-to-one mentoring with Ps founder or another expert in the field. But Mr 
W said that he never received mentoring at all, and that each training event was a repeat of 
the initial event with lots of individuals in attendance.
Mr W also said that during the free event intimate training was highly emphasised, and that 
he was told that he would be placed in a group of approximately six like-minded people, but 
he said these individuals were randomly selected and not matched to his goals. Mr W said 
that he attended a conference call once a month with them and a business coach facilitated 
the sessions. He said that during these sessions he had approximately 8 to 12 minutes to 
feed back on his progress, and he feels this is not sufficient time to call it an intimate training 
or even be useful. So, overall, he said that the 12 month course was misrepresented to him.       
In January 2020, Tesco Bank wrote to Mr W and said that when he requested information 
regarding the course to allow him to apply for funding, P provided him with information that 
included the course schedule and a breakdown of the costs. Tesco Bank said that based on 
this information there was no evidence to substantiate Mr Ws claim that he didnt receive the 
scheduled courses listed on there. So, they said, they were unable to progress his S75 
claim.
Mr W was not happy, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr W disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities, 
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint, but I want to
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
S75 sets out that in certain circumstances Mr W can bring a claim against Tesco Bank for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by P, provided that certain conditions are met. 
Im satisfied those conditions are met in this case. So, I have to decide whether I think Tesco 
Bank has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Ws S75 claim. In deciding that, 
Ive taken into account the law including S75, any rules and regulations, and what I consider 
to be good industry practice. 
I know Mr W has been quite critical of P, and the companys founder, and he has provided 
our service with a lot of information in support of his opinion, but it is important to note that 
Im not considering the actions of P or their founder in this case, including the way P 
operates in general as a company. I want to make it clear that in my decision Im only 
considering whether Tesco Bank have dealt with Mr Ws S75 claim in a fair and reasonable 
way.
A breach of contract would be where P failed to provide Mr W with a product or service 
agreed in contract with them. And to make a finding of misrepresentation I would need to be 
satisfied that Mr W was told a false statement of fact that caused him to enter into a contract 
he would not have entered into otherwise.
Mr W was sold the 12-month course during a free training event. There is no recorded 
evidence of what exactly was said or promised to Mr W by P at the free event that he 
attended, so Ive thought about what he has told us and what most likely happened. Ive also 
considered the marketing material Mr W has pointed us to, his written notes and other 
evidence from around the time of sale.
One such evidence that Ive taken into consideration is a brochure Mr W received from P in 
January 2020, which outlines the 12-month course he purchased. I know that Mr W 
questions the contents of this document. He believes it is not a true reflection of what P 
promised would be included during the 12-month course. He said the document couldve 
been amended by P, and he said that he didnt receive a copy of this at the time of 
purchasing the course.   
So, Ive considered this, but I can see that in July 2019, two days after purchasing the 
course, Mr W wrote to P and asked them to provide him with details about the course, the 
training content, duration and costs, so that he could use this information to apply for 
funding. On 22 July 2019, he received an email reply from P outlining what he can expect 
from the course  I will refer to this email as the Confirmation Email. The Confirmation 
Email broadly covers the same information as the brochure. 
It seems that the price listed in the brochure and in the Confirmation Email match the 
amount Mr W paid. The brochure said the course lasts 12 months and talks about six 
programmes that are included, and so does the Confirmation Email. And both talk about the same things that will be covered during the course, which is also broadly the same as some 
of the information Mr W noted about the course in his written notes during the event. I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr W to question the information he received in the 
Confirmation Email at the time had he thought that the information he received was 
incorrect. But I cant see that he did so, as he replied to P saying that the information in the 
Confirmation Email was helpful, and just what he needed to know. 
So, overall taking all of the above into consideration, I think most likely, the brochure was the 
correct one that was in force at the time Mr W purchased the course. And combined with the 
Confirmation Email I think both are a good indication of what wouldve been covered on the 
12-month course.  
Mr W attended only three of the training sessions because he said that after attending these, 
he already felt the course was misrepresented to him. In summary, Mr W said that he was 
promised one-to-one mentoring with Ps founder or another expert in the field which he 
never received. From the brochure and the Confirmation Email I can see that coaching and 
mentoring on the course is spread over two days, and that it is provided once an individual 
has already attended all the other training programmes. The brochure explains that during 
those two days an individual will join Ps founder for coaching and mentoring. So, I think 
most likely, had Mr W attended the remaining training programs and completed the full 
course, he most likely wouldve been provided with coaching and mentoring. 
I know that Mr W has mentioned that based on the information from Ps marketing material 
he was expecting the coaching and mentoring to be provided at the beginning of the 12-
month course and not towards the end. Ive considered this, but in order to uphold his 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Mr W was actually given this false statement of 
fact that caused him to enter a contract he would not have entered into otherwise. P offers 
its courses, even the 12-month course that Mr W signed up for, in a variety of formats. 
Hence, the marketing material might be referring to one of many versions of the course that 
are on offer by P. But, even if the above statement was made to Mr W at the time of sale, I 
would still need to consider whether he would have purchased the course if the mentoring 
was only provided at the end of the 12-months. And I think most likely, he wouldve still 
purchased the course. I say this because he still wouldve received the mentoring he wanted 
just at a different time, and when he received the Confirmation Email, it did not mention that 
the coaching and mentoring is provided at the beginning of the course. The Confirmation 
Email had the coaching session listed as one of the last sessions on the schedule and had 
the dates of that session listed as October. So, had Mr W thought this was incorrect, I think 
most likely, he wouldve questioned this at the time. And considering that he didnt question it 
at the time, I also think that most likely he was not told that the coaching was going to be at 
the beginning of the course or that is was particularly material to his decision to enter into the 
contract. 
Mr W also said that he did attend some sessions where he was placed in small groups with 
other individuals and a coach, but he said these individuals were not likeminded as was 
promised to him, and he said they were selected at random and not matched to his goals. 
From the brochure and the Confirmation Email, I can see that it said that any individual 
attending the course will be placed in a group of approximately six people, and will work with 
this group through the year. It said this will help course takers to be accountable and make 
friends with like-minded people. There is no evidence to show how P selected individuals to 
each group. And, I think, the interpretation of the phrase like-minded individuals can be very 
subjective. Mr W thinks that this would mean that the group would not be selected at random 
and be matched with his goals. But Ive not seen any evidence that he was told that the 
individuals in his small group would not be selected at random. And I think that most likely individuals who are attending the type of course in question are like-minded, as their goals 
and the results they are seeking are similar in nature. 
Mr W also said that he feels the small group sessions were too short, so he said, there was 
insufficient time to call them intimate or even useful. But there is no evidence which 
stipulates how long these small group sessions will last, and no information of what 
specifically would be covered when the groups meet up. The brochure and the Confirmation 
Email said that every month there will be a small group video call to keep the course takers 
accountable, and from what I understand Mr W did attend some of these sessions. During 
the sessions Mr W says he was expected to tell the group and the coach about the progress 
he was making. So, it seems these sessions were available to him, and course takers were 
accountable to say how they are progressing. So overall, I cant say that most likely the offer 
of small groups with the like-minded individuals was misrepresented to him.   
Mr W has also questioned the quality of the content of the 12-month course. He said that P 
was supposed to provide the course with reasonable skill and care, and he felt that he didnt 
receive certain aspects of the course. In summary, he thinks that the course didnt provide 
him with: vast strategies, as he was only taught five; the sessions he attended were a repeat 
of the initial event; and, he said, he didnt receive the intimate support around coaching and 
mentoring or help in finding his initial transaction. 
Assessing the quality of a service, such as the training provided, is naturally a rather 
subjective matter, so what is considered reasonable for one person, may not be for another. 
I appreciate Mr W was unhappy with the fact that some of the content was repeated and that 
he expected more from the course, but this doesnt mean the course and its quality was not 
provided with reasonable care and skill.  While I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling 
regarding this aspect, I dont think Ive seen enough evidence to say the quality of service fell 
below that of a reasonable service provider. The sessions he did attend seem to have 
covered the content as mentioned in the Confirmation Email and in the brochure. Also, Mr W 
didnt attend the remainder of the training programmes, and has not completed the full 
course, so its not clear what else wouldve been provided had he attended the course to the 
end. Ultimately, I dont think there is enough evidence for me to say that P breached their 
contract with Mr W by not providing the service they were contractually required to provide.
I sympathise with Mr W for the difficulties that he is experiencing, but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think that Tesco Bank has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr Ws S75 claim. So, it is not fair or reasonable for me to 
require Tesco Bank to take any action in response to Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman