DRN-4343446
The complaint
Mr D complains that Alex M Grant & Company Limited (AMG) gave him unsuitable advice 
when he joined an occupational pension scheme held with a provider Ill refer to as provider 
A. He also complains that AMG subsequently charged for ongoing advice which it didnt 
provide. 
What happened
In September 2004, on behalf of Mr Ds then employer, AMG wrote to employees in the 
group pension scheme. The letter told them that with effect from October 2004, the group 
pension scheme would be replaced with a different group scheme run by a new provider, 
whos parent company was provider A. 
The letter explained the reasons for the changes. And confirmed that contribution levels 
would remain the same. It also explained that employees had a choice of funds with a range 
of risk with the new provider. And included the following information: 
Unless you specifically request your own personalised portfolio of funds, your money will be 
automatically invested in the Universal Balanced fund. However, you are not restricted to 
this for the duration of your pension as you can make a change at any time by calling us
The letter also described the Universal Balanced Fund as follows:
This fund is a lower risk, lower volatility balanced managed fund with access to both active 
and passive fund management. 
It also said that the fund:
has all the benefits of a managed fund, while reducing the risk of under performance relative 
to the median. 
And said:
In addition there is added protection within the fund with a "life style" option which will 
gradually switch a members exposure from funds with greater growth potential for example 
equities, to low risk investment funds as a member approaches retirement. This is carried 
out via a programme of pre-defined fund switches, which take place 7 years from normal 
retirement date.
The Universal fund therefore aims to provide long-term consistent growth, together with a 
wide spread of investment risk.
The September 2004 letter also explained that the pension was a Stakeholder Plan. And 
said that group presentations would shortly be organised to discuss the scheme in more 
detail and to cover any queries employees might have. 
The letter ended by explaining how an employee should join the new arrangement. It stated 
the following:
As a member of the existing arrangement there will be no documentation to complete, and 
both the employer and your own contributions will be invested in the new scheme with effect 
from October 2004.
It is important therefore, that if you wish to discuss anything of a personal nature prior to the 
group meetings, to telephone at the earliest opportunity.
If you have any doubt whether this investment is suitable for you please contact us for 
further advice, or if you wish to discuss any points in greater detail.
Mr D joined the new scheme. The new provider wrote to Mr D on 24 November 2005. This 
letter confirmed that his pension was invested in the Universal Balanced Fund. And that his 
selected retirement date was his 65th birthday in 2017. The lifestyling option would mean that 
his funds were gradually switched over starting in 2010.
However, Mr D continued working beyond his 65th birthday. At the time that he chose to stop 
work in 2022, he realised that his pension fund had fallen sharply over the last year. 
I understand that Mr D transferred his pension to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
provider in October 2022. And that he already held a portfolio in drawdown and had a 
financial adviser.
Mr D complained to AMG in January 2023. He was unhappy about the advice itd given him 
at the start of his group pension scheme membership. And the lack of ongoing advice. He 
said hed suffered significant losses just before his retirement. And he hadnt expected this, 
as hed taken AMGs advice to invest in funds which hed believed would be less variable. Mr 
D asked AMG why itd deemed the funds hed been invested in to be suitable in the first 
instance. And why itd continued to deem them suitable up until hed retired.
AMG responded to the complaint on 10 January 2023. It said itd written to Mr D to offer him 
advice over the years, but hed never taken up the offers. It said provider A had also 
recommended Mr D took retirement advice from an adviser to review his fund choices. 
AMG also said that itd attended Mr Ds employers premises on a regular basis. And that he 
couldve reviewed his pension policy and retirement options then. AMG said Mr D had told it 
he had his own adviser.
Unhappy with this response, which he didnt consider covered all of his complaint, Mr D 
brought his complaint to this service. He made the following points:
He felt AMG had advised him on his original fund choice. And this gave him comfort 
that his funds would be made safe when he reached his normal retirement age. He 
said he wasnt warned of any potential risk to the value of his funds. 
He also said that AMG hadnt discussed with him how hed eventually access his 
funds. He said he now understood that the original advice was appropriate for buying 
an annuity. But that this had never been his intention. 
Mr D also felt that AMG had advised him on his fund choices long before hed 
reached his normal retirement date. And that hed worked well past this on the 
understanding that this plan was safe. 
AMG hadnt made any attempt to advise him on his SIPP, for which he received 
advice from his financial adviser. He therefore didnt think that AMG had tried to 
establish details of his other pensions for planning purposes. He said that AMG had never attempted to provide any ongoing service despite 
charging for it. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that AMG hadnt 
provided any initial investment advice. And that it had no ongoing adviser relationship with 
Mr D that required specific reviews, nor had it charged him for such. He also felt that AMG 
wasnt responsible for the performance of Mr Ds chosen funds.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. He felt AMG must be responsible for the outcomes of 
the actions itd taken when itd initially recommended investments. And for the actions it had 
failed to take when it didnt provide him with ongoing advice. In particular, he felt AMG had 
been fully aware that hed extended his membership in the group pension scheme for longer 
than hed originally planned. And that it had been aware that he planned to move his pension 
fund into his SIPP once he stopped work. 
Mr D felt that AGM had advised him at the outset of his group scheme. And that it hadnt 
been made clear to him that AGM had no ongoing responsibility to ensure his investments 
remained suitable for him. He still felt that AGM was responsible for ensuring that his 
investments were suitable for him. Mr D understood that AGM had been formally contracted 
by his employer to give advice on his group scheme pension. And that his own financial 
adviser had no responsibility for this.
Mr D didnt think it was fair to say that he should be responsible for his chosen investments. 
He said that when he was told that his fund linkages were changed, and asked if he was 
happy with the changes, there was a presumption that he had enough knowledge to be able 
to answer this question. But he said he wasnt a sophisticated client. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that AMG didnt do anything wrong. I know this 
will be disappointing to Mr D. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered whether AMG advised Mr D on his original fund choice. 
Did AMG advise Mr D on his original fund choice?
Mr D felt that AMG had advised him on his original fund choice without warning him of any 
potential risks. And that it hadnt discussed with him how hed eventually access his funds. 
He felt the fund hed been advised to invest in hadnt been appropriate as he had never 
intended on buying an annuity. And that AMG hadnt ever attempted to ensure that its initial 
investment advice remained appropriate to his circumstances and objectives. Mr D also said 
that when hed deferred his retirement age, hed understood that his investments were safe. 
The evidence shows that AMG initially provided Mr D with information which explained that 
he could choose which funds he wanted to invest in with the new provider. But that if he 
didnt make an active choice, his money would be invested in the Universal Balanced fund. 
AMG explained that this didnt have to be a permanent choice. And that he could make a 
change at any time by calling it. AMG also told Mr D that if he wasnt sure which investments 
would be suitable, it could be contacted for advice. I think this clearly shows that AMG didnt advise Mr D on his original fund choice. Instead, it 
explained which funds were available to him. And told him what the default fund would be if 
he didnt want to choose funds for himself. 
Regarding Mr Ds complaint that AMG didnt warn him about the potential risks of the default 
fund, and that hed understood his funds would be safe even after hed deferred his 
retirement, the evidence shows that AMG explained that the Universal fund aimed to provide 
long-term consistent growth, together with a wide spread of investment risk. But Ive seen no 
evidence that AMG ever told Mr D that his funds would be made safe when he reached his 
normal retirement age. And, from what Ive seen, the information AMG provided Mr D with at 
the outset explained how lifestyling would work on his chosen investments. 
This noted the following: 
in the final years before you've told us you want to retire; we automatically start to prepare 
your savings for when you buy an annuity in retirement.
Well gradually move your fund out of its growth stage investments, and into long gilts, with 
the aim of preserving the size of annuity youll be able to buy.
I consider that this clearly shows that the selected retirement age chosen was important, as 
it would be used for the timing of the lifestyling. And that the Universal fund, coupled with its 
lifestyling, was intended for people who wanted to buy an annuity in retirement. 
The fund information further explained that:
The value of investments in the growth and retirement target stages can fall as well as rise 
and isn't guaranteed. The value of your pension pot when you come to take benefits may be 
less than has been paid in.
So even if your fund value goes down just before you retire, you'll be able to buy roughly the 
same size of pension - although this relationship isn't perfect and is not guaranteed.
I consider this shows that there were no guarantees to the nominal value of investments in 
the Universal fund. But that it aimed to protect the amount of pension income the fund would 
buy at the selected retirement age.
Although Mr D said he never intended to use his fund to purchase an annuity, I cant fairly 
and reasonably hold AMG responsible for the fact that he chose to invest in the Universal 
fund. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that Mr D ever asked AMG for help with his 
investment choice. Provider A has confirmed to this service that the only investment 
switches on Mr Ds pension were those that were part of the lifestyle strategy of the 
Universal fund. And Mr D has confirmed that he was aware of the lifestyling.
Ive also seen evidence  for example, correspondence from AMG to Mr D in November 
2011  that AMG told Mr D that he could change his investment fund selection at any time 
online. 
Overall, Im satisfied that AMG didnt advise Mr D on his original fund choice. It simply 
provided him with clear information about his options. And offered him further help if he 
needed it. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr D asked for additional support. Therefore I cant 
reasonably conclude that AMG did anything wrong here.
I next considered Mr Ds complaint that AMG hadnt provided him with ongoing advice about 
his group pension.Did AMG provide Mr D with ongoing advice?
Mr D said that AMG hadnt made any attempt to advise him on his SIPP over time. He also 
felt that AMG had failed to consider all of his pensions for planning purposes. He said that 
AMG had never attempted to provide any ongoing service despite charging for it. 
AMG said that Mr D had never signed an individual client agreement with it. However, itd 
offered Mr D help with his pension fund on a number of occasions. But hed failed to reply to 
these offers. AMG also said that it hadnt advised Mr D on the transfer to his SIPP. 
AMG said that although Mr Ds employer had paid it a fee for the service it provided to its 
employees, no direct fee had ever been charged to him, or paid by provider A to AMG. Mr D 
has also confirmed to this service that he didnt have any evidence that hed ever paid AMG 
directly for any advice. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that AMG regularly offered Mr D advice on his retirement 
plans, but that he never took these offers up. I say this because Ive seen a number of letters 
from AMG to Mr D which offered him assistance with his retirement plans. 
For example, a letter from 2017 which stated that as Mr D was coming up to his normal 
retirement age soon, and as he was currently invested in a lifestyle fund with provider A, it 
was: 
very important we review your pension fund choices and whether you intend to take your 
benefits now or defer your retirement.
I consider that this was a valuable recommendation at that time. And that if Mr D had taken 
AMG up on its offer, it wouldve been able to discuss his retirement plans with him and help 
him to understand whether or not his existing investments remained appropriate for him 
given the fact that he intended to work past his normal retirement age and didnt want to buy 
an annuity with his pension funds. 
I can also see that provider A regularly told Mr D that his pension was his own personal 
pension. And that he should seek advice from a financial adviser if he was ever unsure 
about any decision. 
I also agree with our investigator that AMG had no responsibility to look into Mr Ds wider 
pension arrangements. But that if Mr D had asked it for personal advice, taking into account 
his SIPP, it couldve considered all of his pension arrangements. But it wouldve first asked 
Mr D to sign an individual client agreement with it. If Mr D had asked AMG for help with just 
his group pension scheme, I understand that his employer wouldve paid the fee for advice. 
Overall, Ive seen no evidence that AMG acted incorrectly when it failed to provide Mr D with 
ongoing advice, despite regularly offering it to him.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint about AMG is that when he continued working beyond his 
normal retirement date, he wanted his pension fund investments to have little or no risk. He 
felt that AMG had chosen the funds he was invested in from the outset. And that it didnt 
warn him about the risks involved or the potential for loss. Or provide him with any ongoing 
advice about his pension. Therefore, when his pension fund fell in value near the time he 
transferred it to his SIPP, he held AMG responsible for his financial loss.
Im sorry that Mr Ds funds fell in value before he transferred them. However, the evidence 
shows that AMG was never Mr Ds personal adviser. And while I can see that Mr D felt that 
AMG changed its role, I dont agree. It was only ever available if needed. And Mr D never asked it for help. Having said that, I can see that AMG did try to help Mr D understand how 
important it was that he considered whether his investments were still suitable for him as he 
approached his normal retirement age. But even then he didnt engage with it. 
I understand that Mr D felt that, as an unsophisticated consumer, he didnt know enough to 
assess whether his chosen funds were and remained suitable for him. But Im satisfied that 
the information AMG provided him with at the outset clearly explained what the Universal 
fund aimed to do. And Mr D chose the fund for himself. So, while I can see that he now 
considers the fund wasnt suitable for him, I cant reasonably hold AMG responsible for the 
fact that he chose to invest in it. Or that he never asked AMG for advice on whether it was or 
remained suitable for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman