DRN-4062597
The complaint
Mr U complains about the service provided by AWP P&C SA (AWP) when making a travel 
insurance claim on his policy following cancellation of his flight home. 
What happened
Mr U has a travel insurance benefit through his bank account. He pays a monthly fee which 
provides him with a number of benefits including travel insurance. Mr U says hes had the 
account for around 15 years. 
Mr U went abroad and while he was away his flight home was cancelled. He says his main 
priority was to get back home and so he booked another flight for a few days later and paid 
the additional hotel costs. 
Mr U tried to contact the airline but they didnt answer any calls. And so Mr U decided to 
make a claim on his travel insurance policy when he returned to the UK. 
He says he sent AWP all of the documentation it asked for to prove his claim. Mr U didnt 
hear anything from AWP and so he called to get an update. AWP told Mr U his claim was 
declined because under the terms and conditions of the policy he was required to be at the 
airport when the flight was cancelled. Mr U says he received an email from the airline the 
day before his flight was due to tell him it had been cancelled. 
Mr U says he has paid for a service he hasnt received. He wants AWP to reimburse him for 
the cost of the flight, additional hotel costs, taxis, and food he had to pay for after his flight 
was cancelled. 
AWP said it considered the relevant sections of the policy to see if any applied to Mr Us 
circumstances but none did. It accepted Mr U was unable to check in for his flight since it 
was cancelled the day before he was due to travel but said the policy didnt cover every 
eventuality. It said since the circumstance wasnt covered under the policy it was unable to 
pay Mr Us claim. 
Mr U wasnt satisfied with the response from AWP. And so the complaint was referred to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she considered the evidence 
submitted by both parties and wasnt upholding the complaint. The investigator said AWP 
declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions since no insured 
event occurred. 
Mr U didnt agree with the investigators outcome. He said the policy says it covers disruption 
and he has been paying for that cover for 15 years through his personal bank account. Mr U 
said he doesnt know what the small print and clauses say. 
Because Mr U didnt agree with the investigators outcome the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand Mr U will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are allowed to decide what 
risks they are prepared to cover. The policy documents form part of the insurance contract 
and set out what is and isnt covered. So my starting point is the policy, which sets out a list 
of circumstances covered under the section headed, Travel disruption. It says;
1. A delay of your re-booked public transport resulting in you departing at least 12 hours 
after your original scheduled departure time; or
2. You being involuntarily denied boarding because there are too many passengers for the 
seats available and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 hours; or 
3. Abandonment of your trip following 12 hours of delay at your first international departure 
point in your home country. 
The airline cancelled Mr Us flight the day before it was due to depart. This circumstance 
isnt listed above and is therefore not covered under the policy. 
The policy explains it is, intended to provide compensation if you are delayed at your point 
of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you have 
not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, even if you have checked in 
online. 
Since Mr Us flight was cancelled the day before it was due to depart he hadnt arrived at the 
point of departure or checked in for the flight. This situation isnt covered in the above 
circumstances and in fact is specifically excluded. So I cant say AWP were wrong to decline 
the claim on that basis. 
Mr U says he didnt read the terms and conditions of the policy and wasnt to know what it 
said. He also said when he checked the policy it confirmed he was covered for travel 
disruption. And that is correct, but only in certain circumstances. He says he has paid for his 
insurance for the past 15 years. I empathise with the position he now finds himself in. But as 
previously explained the policy covers travel disruption in certain circumstances only. 
I do understand Mr Us frustration at not being covered for the cancelled flight by his insurer. 
When he was told his flight back to the UK was cancelled and he had to try and find 
alternative transport  I imagine would have been stressful. I can appreciate his 
disappointment when he learned it wasnt covered by his insurance. However I have looked 
at whether AWP has acted in line with the policy when dealing with Mr Us claim. Having 
carefully reviewed the terms and conditions I think it has. 
Overall Im satisfied AWP didnt decline Mr Us claim unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman