DRN-1540911
The complaint
Miss B complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited didnt compensate her properly 
when it wasnt able to arrange cover for her son on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B wanted to add her son to the policy for short, temporary periods, as he was usually 
away at university. She said Hastings had previously been able to do that, but it had told her 
a systems error prevented it from doing so again. It was also unable to provide a quote for a 
new policy with cover for Miss B and her son. Miss Bs policy expired in September 2019. 
She said at that point Hastings hadnt corrected the systems error in over eight months. 
Meanwhile, Hastings had replied to Miss Bs formal complaint in July 2019. It noted that 
shed tried to add her son to the policy - or get a new one. It accepted that it hadnt been 
able to arrange cover for him. Hastings said its technical teams were working on the 
problem. It said Miss B had queried whether she could cancel the policy without paying a 
cancellation charge, with her five-years no claims discount (NCD) intact. It confirmed that 
was the case, and upheld Miss Bs complaint. It had already paid her £75 for poor service in 
June 2019 and paid a further £75. Miss B didnt think that was enough.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint Miss B made to us. He noted that Hastings 
had caused Miss B inconvenience. But he also noted that it had offered to allow Miss B to 
cancel the policy free of charge in April 2019. Miss B had said she didnt want to do that. She 
said it meant (potentially) shed lose out on a years NCD, on top of the five years shed 
already earned. The investigator didnt think that loss would have been substantial, although 
he thought Hastings could have offered Miss B a sum in recognition of it in April 2019. He 
said Miss B hadnt tried to minimise the impact of the situation on herself, and that £150 
compensation from Hastings was fair. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings file notes show that Miss B emailed it about the difficulty in adding her son to the 
policy in November 2018, but  she didnt make a formal complaint at that time. So it seems 
that the technical issue that caused the problem for Miss B dragged on for some time. 
Miss B has made it clear that she was upset and inconvenienced by her son not being 
insured to drive the car, but she hasnt been specific about any costs she incurred or about 
the dates her son was at home and needed cover. I think the periods in question were 
limited, as from what shes said, it seems he was away for most of the time at university. 
Hastings accepted it was at fault in not being able to correct the systems error within a 
reasonable time and that Miss B was inconvenienced as a result of that. I think all Hastings 
could reasonably have done in the circumstances was to apologise, pay Miss B 
compensation, and waive any cancellation charge so she could move her business 
elsewhere. And I think its shown it did all that. 
I understand Miss Bs reluctance to cancel the policy in April 2019, as by that time she was 
over six months into earning an extra years NCD. But another years NCD was only 
potentially available, as there could have been an incident that affected the policy during the 
remaining months. Im not sure what sort of offer from Hastings would have been 
appropriate in recognition of Miss Bs potential loss of NCD. I dont think a further years 
NCD is likely to have made much difference to her next policy premium. Many insurers only 
accept five years NCD anyway, regardless of a consumer having earned more. And insurers 
who accept extra years NCD often offer only a tiny discount for one extra year. 
In my opinion, although Hastings was at fault and its technical issues caused Miss B 
inconvenience, it did all it could to try to put matters right. I think paying her £150 
compensation was reasonable. As I dont think Miss B has shown the offer was insufficient, I 
cant uphold her complaint and ask Hastings to do more.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman