DRN-3097892
The complaint
Mr C complains that the Carphone Warehouse Ltd mis-sold him mobile phone insurance to 
cover devices he bought between 2003 and 2018. 
 
What happened
Mr C bought mobile phone insurance from Carphone Warehouse for various phones 
between 2003 and 2018. In 2019 he complained to Carphone Warehouse that these policies 
had been mis-sold. This was after he became aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) had issued a report about failings it had found in Carphone Warehouses sales 
processes.
Mr C said the policies had been mis-sold because he already had mobile phone insurance 
through his packaged bank account and so didnt need to take out these policies.
Carphone Warehouse looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr C was unhappy with 
this decision and with the way Carphone Warehouse had dealt with him. In particular, he 
said Carphone Warehouse initially agreed to refund about £5,000 in premiums but later went 
back on that promise. And he felt the correspondence from Carphone Warehouse was 
inconsistent and misleading.
When he brought the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think the policies had 
been mis-sold. He noted that some premiums had been refunded, for example in relation to 
one policy that hadnt been cancelled when it should have been, but didnt think Carphone 
should refund any other premiums.
The investigator did however say the service provided to Mr C had been poor and, although 
Carphone Warehouse had accepted that and offered an apology, he thought some 
compensation should be paid. Carphone Warehouse agreed to make a payment of £100.  
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Amongst 
other things, he said:
he was a loyal customer for many years but was treated poorly;
he didnt read all the documents but having spent a long time in store sorting out new 
phones he didnt then have time to read through all the small print of the policy 
documents;
he cant prove he was asked whether he had other insurance  but if he had been 
asked he would have said;
the policy included technical support, which has useful, and thats why he felt he 
needed to take out the insurance;
he received contradictory information from Carphone Warehouse, for example being 
told he would receive a large refund and later being told this wouldnt happen.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
The FCA investigation found there were failings in how Carphone Warehouse sold insurance 
between 2008 and 2015. After the report was issued, Carphone Warehouse made some 
changes to its sale practices and introduced suitability assessments, which include asking 
customers questions such as whether they have insurance elsewhere.
Mr C says the outcome of that investigation was that Carphone Warehouse should provide 
redress to all affected customers. He says all his policies were mis-sold and his 
circumstances mean he is in that category, so he should be refunded the premiums he paid 
for these policies. But it doesnt necessarily follow that he should get a refund. The FCA 
agreed to reduce the fine imposed on Carphone Warehouse because it had agreed to 
provide redress for affected customers. But that leaves the question of who is an affected 
customer. The normal approach to considering this involves asking:
whether there was a failing by the business, and if so,
whether (and how) the person bringing the complaint to us has been affected by that 
failing.
If, for example, I thought there were flaws in a sales process but a consumer would have 
bought the policy anyway, they wont necessarily have lost out as a result of those failings. 
So I need to consider Mr Cs individual circumstances and whether he lost out as a result of 
any failings by Carphone Warehouse in relation to the sale of his policies.
These were advised sales, so Carphone Warehouse needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the insurance was suitable for their customer. That would include establishing if Mr C 
had a need for it and whether he had cover elsewhere that could provide the same benefits. 
And any information provided to Mr C had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
The first point Ive considered is whether although Mr C wanted the technical support, it 
wasnt made clear to him he could have that without taking out the insurance cover.
Carphone Warehouse says it would have provided leaflets which would have made it clear 
that standalone policies offering technical support were available. The FCA report found 
there was a focus by advisers on the technical support features, and sales consultants were 
trained in objection handling, which undermined the advised sales process. Given the 
FCAs findings, it is possible that for those sales covered by the report Mr C was told he 
could only access technical support if he took out the policy, or at least that the adviser didnt 
make the distinction clear to him. And Mr C may have reasonably paid more attention to 
what he was told by the adviser than any leaflets that were available in store.
Bearing this in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether any of this made a difference to 
Mr Cs decision. Based on the evidence available to me, Im satisfied he would have gone 
ahead with insurance cover even if things had been made clear to him. Thats because he 
was buying new phones and hadnt told Carphone Warehouse that he had alternative cover. 
The documents for the insurance sales say that taking out the policy is not compulsory with 
the purchase of your phone. I think thats quite clear. And he signed the insurance 
certificate and the suitability documents to confirm that he had no other insurance in place.
Im unclear why he would sign those documents where he knew that he could have used the 
insurance provided through his bank account.
Because of the time that has passed we dont have the documents for sales before 2015. 
But I understand these should have contained similar wordings. A signed insurance 
certificate doesnt necessarily mean the adviser made the optional nature of the policy clear. 
However, Mr C could have cancelled these policies within the cooling off period and he didnt 
do that.
We dont have any sales scripts that advisers should have followed, but the information Mr C 
should have seen included a leaflet headed Geek Squad Tech Support and a separate leaflet Insurance and Support for your mobile which provided information about what was 
available. With all the policies, Mr C received a welcome pack which highlighted the policy 
benefits and exclusions as well as general information about the policies and cancellation 
rights.
The FCA report found there was a focus by advisers on the technical support features 
offered by the insurance product. So as Ive said, its possible Mr C was told he could only 
access these services if he took out the policy, or alternatively that the adviser didnt make 
the distinction clear to him. And I think Mr C would reasonably have relied on what he was 
told at the time. The FCA also found that sales consultants werent trained adequately to 
assess a customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. So, I think its 
likely there were some failings in the way Carphone Warehouse assessed the suitability of 
those policies during the period covered by the FCA report.
However, the policies Mr C bought between 2015 and 2018 dont fall within that period. And 
after the report was issued Carphone Warehouse had changed the way it sold the 
insurance. So its unlikely the same failings happened during the later sales.
As Ive explained, even where there were some failings, I still need to consider the impact of 
that.
Mr C bought the policies at the same time as upgrading his phones. So he had a potential 
need for the cover, which included loss, theft or accidental damage of the phone (the policies 
also include cover for breakdown from the date the manufacturers warranty expires). On 
the face of it, it wouldnt necessarily have been wrong to sell these policies to him, if he had 
a need for the cover.
Mr C has provided his recollections of these sales. Hes said he was at the mercy of 
Carphone Warehouse when he upgraded his phone. And a key point for him is that says he 
was never asked if he had cover elsewhere.
Mr C says hes had cover all the way back to 1998 through his bank account. Hes provided 
evidence to show he had insurance cover through his bank in 2004 and Ive no reason to 
doubt he had it at other times. But the fact he had cover through his bank doesnt 
automatically mean that he was mis-sold these policies.
When Mr C initially bought two policies in 2003, and again in 2004, he also decided to add 
the same devices to his insurance provider through his bank. If he knew he had cover 
through his bank, its not clear to me why he would also choose to buy insurance from 
Carphone Warehouse. When Carphone Warehouse asked him about this, he said their 
policies offered benefits that a packaged bank account policy did not. So it seems likely  
there was a reason why he continued to take out these policies. In addition, he made 
extensive use of the technical support service and hes confirmed to us that he felt that was 
something he needed. Finally, he also made three claims on the insurance. Carphone 
Warehouse asked about why he claimed on this insurance rather than through the banks 
policy and Mr C said its service was more efficient. These points all indicate that there was a 
need for the insurance.
After the FCA investigation Carphone Warehouse introduced new procedures, which 
included an Insurance Needs Assessment. Mr C completed this for the two most recent 
policies. In this assessment he said he didnt have alternative insurance that would suit his 
needs. And on the insurance certificates that he completed during 2015 and afterwards, he 
also confirmed he had no alternative cover.From the information Ive seen, I dont think Mr C was significantly affected by any of the 
things the policies didnt cover. And I think the cost of the insurance was affordable for him. 
Mr C called to cancel two policies. But in spite of that he carried on taking out insurance from 
Carphone Warehouse even though he knew he had cover elsewhere.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr C was pressurised into buying this insurance by Carphone 
Warehouse while it knew he had alternative cover. Indeed he hasnt argued that himself. The 
key point Mr C has made is that he wasnt asked whether he had other insurance, and if he 
had been, he would have told Carphone Warehouse he did. On balance, I dont think theres 
enough to say he would have done so, taking into account all the points I have set out 
above. He knew throughout that he had other insurance but continued to choose Carphone 
Warehouses policies and indeed to make use of those policies when he needed to make 
claims, rather than his banks policy.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the policies were unsuitable or that Carphone 
Warehouse would have done anything wrong in recommending them to Mr C. And so even if 
there was a failing in the sales process, I dont think he has suffered a detriment as a result.
Having said all that, I do agree that the service Mr C received from Carphone Warehouse 
was poor at times, particularly in relation to its communication with him and the times when it 
gave him false expectations that he would receive a refund. At one point he understood he 
was to be repaid £5,000 but that never happened. The communication was confusing and 
this continued over a lengthy period. Carphone Warehouse agreed to pay compensation of 
£100 for this, which our investigator thought was fair. Looking at what happened, the time 
period involved, and the amount of frustration this caused to Mr C, my view is that a higher 
payment would be fair to acknowledge the distress caused to Mr C throughout this time. I 
think a payment of £250 would be reasonable and so Carphone Warehouse should make a  
further payment of £150.
Replies to the provisional decision
Carphone Warehouse has not provided any further comments in reply to the provisional 
decision. 
Mr C has made a number of comments. I wont set them all out in full but will summarise 
some of the key points as follows:
he takes issue with the word felt  to describe his reaction to the communication from 
Carphone Warehouse; this wasnt subjective it was supported by facts;
the provisional decision refers to him not reading all the documents but it typically 
took over three hours to upgrade their phones (one time they left the shop after it had 
closed having spent four hours in intense negotiation) so it wouldnt have been 
appropriate to then read all the small print of the insurance;
the provisional decision includes opinion rather than facts and statements about what 
was likely which are not supported by evidence  for example saying it was unlikely 
the same failings happened in later sales  and offensive comments about whether 
the insurance was affordable made without information about his financial affairs;
he still maintains he was never asked if he had insurance elsewhere;
the initial assessment of compensation by Carphone Warehouse is still relevant and 
the compensation now proposed of £250 goes no way to recognise the hours of 
frustration he suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says I made findings based on opinion rather than facts, commented on what was 
more likely, and made assumptions about his circumstances. 
The dispute resolution rules that set out how we deal with complaints say the Ombudsman 
will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. So I do make the decision based on my opinion of whats 
fair. And where theres a dispute about the circumstances I make that decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, making a judgment about what I think is more likely 
to have happened. 
I have considered Mr Cs further comments carefully. They are largely a repeat of the 
comments he has made previously and dont lead me to reach a different conclusion. 
Mr C questions my finding that its unlikely the same failings happened during the later sales. 
That was based on the evidence I have that Carphone Warehouse changed its processes 
and, for example, introduced an insurance needs statement, which Mr C completed. I note 
his comments about how long he spent negotiating his new phone contracts and why he 
didnt then have time to read all the insurance small print. But he wouldnt have needed to 
read all the detailed policy documents to know that he had cover through his bank. And 
although he says he was never asked about alternative cover, he nevertheless signed 
documents confirming he didnt have cover elsewhere. In relation to his comment about what 
was affordable for him, that was a judgment based on the information I have about how 
much the insurance cost and how long Mr C was able to pay for it.
Ive considered the further comments but it remains my view that the policies would not have 
been unsuitable and it would not have been wrong for Carphone Warehouse to recommend 
them. And for the reasons set out in detail above, even if there was a failing in the sales 
process for some of the sales I dont think Mr C suffered a detriment. There was some 
distress and frustration caused by the way Carphone Warehouse dealt with him and the 
inconsistent communication he received. Ive thought about the compensation and Im 
satisfied £250 is a reasonable amount to acknowledge this.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and direct The Carphone Warehouse Ltd to make a further 
payment of £150 (in addition to the £100 agreed previously) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman