DRN-4362925
The complaint
Mr B complains that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd trading as CRS has chased him for debts 
that were formed part of his bankruptcy order. 
What happened
Mr B has explained that he was made bankrupt in 2021 and discharged in 2022. In 
September 2022 CRS says it was instructed by a business Ill call D to collect an outstanding 
balance of £228. In April 2023 CRS wrote to Mr B to advise it had been instructed to collect 
another debt from a business Ill call Z, this time for £90. 
Mr B provided third party authority for a family member to act on his behalf. The 
representative has explained that Mr B is suffering with serious mental health concerns and 
is vulnerable. So the contact he received from CRS, despite being asked to correspond with 
his representative, was extremely distressing. Mr Bs representative has pointed out that his 
debts shouldve been included in the bankruptcy order but CRS was continuing to harass 
him for payment. 
Mr Bs representative raised a complaint and CRS has issued two final responses. In the 
first, CRS apologised for failing to carry out Mr Bs instructions to correspond with his 
representative. CRS added that it had taken the step of returning the debt with Z to the 
lender. CRS asked Mr B to provide documentation to show his bankruptcy was approved. In 
the follow up final response, CRS said that it had taken Mr Bs circumstances into account 
and returned the debt with D to the lender. As a result, CRS says no further contact to collect 
the outstanding balance would be made. 
An investigator at this service upheld Mr Bs complaint and asked CRS to pay him £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the failure to deal with his representative. CRS 
agreed, but Mr B didnt and asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Bs case has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Bs representative has explained that hes been through a particularly difficult time in 
recent years. The representative has explained Mr Bs business closed and he was made 
bankrupt in 2021. Mr B was subsequently discharged the following year. Weve been told Mr 
B continues to suffer with serious mental health concerns and remains vulnerable. So I can 
understand why Mr B was so concerned when he was contacted by CRS to say it was 
seeking to collect two debts in his name. 
Ive looked at the circumstances surrounding CRS contact with Mr B. I think its important to 
note that CRS wasnt the original lender for either debt and was instructed in its role as debt 
collector. That means CRS had no knowledge of how the debts came about or Mr Bs 
circumstances before it was instructed. So whilst I understand Mr B was discharged from his 
bankruptcy at the time he was contacted by CRS, Im satisfied it was acting in good faith on 
its instructions from the original lenders. 
When someone disputes whether a debt is valid, wed expect the business seeking to collect 
to check with the original lender. Here, CRS did that and was able to return the smaller of 
the two debts to Z. But CRS didnt receive an instruction to return the other debt to D so 
when it initially responded to Mr Bs complaint, it requested evidence that his bankruptcy was 
approved. After further representations from Mr Bs representative, CRS confirmed the 
account had been returned to D and that no further collections activity would occur. Overall, 
whilst I can understand how upsetting Mr B found the situation, Im satisfied CRS followed a 
reasonable approach in checking with the original lenders and taking his circumstances into 
account.
CRS accepts it failed to note Mr Bs instructions to correspond with his representative. I dont 
doubt how upsetting Mr B found the contact he received. And I appreciate Mr Bs 
representative informed CRS of his circumstances at an early stage. But I think the 
investigators recommendation that CRS pays Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused recognises his experience and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr B but I havent found grounds to increase the award further. As Im satisfied 
the award of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B is a fair way to resolve 
his case, Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd trading as CRS should settle by paying 
Mr B £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman