DRN-2696007
The complaint
Mr K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt resolve a problem 
under his home emergency policy properly and then refused to reattend. He wants his 
expenses reimbursed.
What happened
 Mr K had a policy that provided cover for emergency plumbing problems like blocked drains 
or leaking pipes. His kitchen sink wouldnt drain, so he called RSA. A plumber attended and 
cleared the blockage by plunging the sink. Mr K says it was blocked again the next day. He 
called RSA and a different plumber attended a few days later. He cleared the blockage using 
a wet vacuum cleaner. The plumber noted on the job sheet that he was concerned about 
damaging the pipe work and that if there was a further blockage the pipework should be 
checked to establish how it ran.
Mr K says it was blocked soon after, but RSA wouldnt accept a call out about the same 
issue within two days. When he did call after two days, RSA said it wanted to check with the 
plumber and would call him back. But Mr K says he had to chase RSA several days later. Mr 
K says RSA said a CCTV inspection was needed to identify the cause of the problem. This 
would cost £250 and wasnt covered by the policy and it wouldnt be attending to clear the 
blockage unless Mr K agreed to the inspection.
Mr K complained saying the plumbers hadnt done the job properly and that he hadnt been 
told there could only be two call outs. He arranged his own plumber and says the blockage 
was cleared by plunging the sink. Mr K says his plumber said a CCTV inspection was 
unnecessary and that there have been no problems since. 
RSA rejected Mr Ks complaint. It said the policy provided for emergencies not repairs and 
referred to a clause in the policy about this. It said its contractor had been concerned about 
damaging the pipework which is why it had proposed the CCTV inspection. Mr K says he 
paid £96 for his own plumber and hed had to buy expensive takeaway meals because he 
couldnt use the sink or dishwasher because of the blockage.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it. 
She said the policy wording provided for a blocked drain to be left free running, which it had 
been after each visit, so RSA had acted reasonably. She said the policy didnt provide for 
repairs and that remedial work may be recommended to prevent further incidents, the cost 
of which wouldnt be covered by the policy. She said there didnt appear to be a limit on the 
number of call outs, but it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to want the recommended inspection 
carried out before attending further. She said RSA hadnt acted unfairly and didnt need to 
take any further action.    
Mr K said as hed had no problems since, this showed RSAs plumbers hadnt done the job 
properly, with the sink becoming blocked so soon after each visit. As Mr K doesnt agree it 
has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 26 January 2021. I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy dont provide for repairs to be made. And I didnt think it 
unreasonable for RSA to say investigations into the cause of a recurring problem are 
required.
But from the evidence I had seen I didnt think it was made clear to Mr K that no further 
emergency call outs would be provided until a CCTV inspection had been carried out as 
RSA argued in its final response. The plumber who attended the second call out left Mr K 
with a job sheet with the following note:
If the problem re-occurs then will need to locate how the pipe runs. 
RSA referred to exclusion K in the policy wording under the section:
We Do Not Cover:
Additional repair work, for example a blocked drain will be left running clear but if a 
drain needs to be realigned to avoid a problem recurring this will not be covered.
RSA says this means that it didnt need to assist Mr K with his emergency any further, as 
investigation is additional repair work. But the clause doesnt say this, and I didnt think it 
reasonable to argue it applied in the circumstances here. In part, because Mr K says that no 
remedial work has been necessary. And, because it doesnt appear that the actual CCTV 
recommendation was made until several days after Mr K contacted RSA about the third 
blockage. 
Under exclusion G, the policy says the following events wont be covered:
Incidents where you have previously been advised of the need to take preventative 
or maintenance work and this has not been carried out, for example installing access 
points to your drainage system
I thought RSA should have attended for a third time and attempted to clear the blockage 
pending further inspection. At this point Mr K would have been properly advised of the 
recommended investigation work. After this I thought it would then have been reasonable for 
RSA to decline further call outs until this and any remedial work needed had been 
completed. 
Fortunately, the problem appears to have been resolved to Mr Ks satisfaction by his own 
plumber. I thought it reasonable that he should have his expenses of £96 for this reimbursed 
by RSA. As for the other costs Mr K says he incurred for takeaway meals, I hadnt seen any 
evidence that he was without washing facilities entirely. So, I didnt think takeaway food was 
his only option and it wasnt reasonable to expect RSA to cover these costs in addition.I thought Mr K had suffered trouble and upset due to what has happened and in having to 
wait three days to be told RSA wouldnt be attending the third blockage, which delayed it 
being resolved. So, I thought RSA should pay him £50 compensation in respect of this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 25 February 2021.
Response to provisional decision
Mr K reiterated his concerns about the policy being restrictive with him not being able to 
raise the same problem within two days of RSAs contractor attending, even though the sink 
was blocked again within 6-10 hours. 
RSA reiterated that a CCTV survey was an investigative procedure, which wouldnt remove 
a blockage, so the policy didnt cover it. It said it had told Mr K that the survey was required 
on the 27 May 2020, when he complained about it not being covered. It apologised for the 
delay in confirming this was needed. 
RSA said it was happy to reimburse Mr Ks plumbers invoice as if a CCTV survey was not 
utilised then this may be something that the clients insurance policy can provide cover for. 
But it didnt think that paying compensation was fair, as the CCTV survey wasnt covered by 
the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part.
Mr K says it wasnt possible to raise the same problem within two days of a call out. But I 
havent seen any evidence of this. From RSAs notes Mr K reported the first blockage on the 
18 May 2020. The contractor attended at noon the next day. Mr K reported the second 
blockage on the evening of 20 May 2020. And the same contractor attended on the 
afternoon of 22 May 2020. 
The T&Cs say that RSA will have reasonable discretion as to how and when work was 
undertaken. RSAs notes on 21 May 2020 refer to the issue as not an instant emergency. I 
think an instant emergency is something like a burst pipe, and whilst a blocked sink is 
inconvenient it doesnt require an immediate response. I dont think the response times here 
were unreasonable. 
But when Mr K reported the third blockage on the afternoon of the 24 May 2020, I think there 
was an unreasonable delay in RSA telling him it wouldnt be attending unless he agreed to 
cover the cost of additional work. 
RSA says a CCTV survey isnt covered as it is repair work that investigates drainage 
systems to enable a fully informed decision to be made about the further work that is 
required. But apart from clearing the blockage, which is what Mr K wanted, no repair work 
was necessary. And Mr K believes the issue to have been one ongoing problem that hadnt 
been dealt with properly.
Presumably the CCTV camera would need to go past the blockage to identify if faults were 
responsible for it. If the survey wouldnt clear a blockage, it would seem necessary that it 
must be cleared first to complete the survey. And I note RSAs contractor didnt appear to be available to undertake the CCTV survey for another week after Mr K was advised of the 
recommendation. 
If so, had Mr K agreed to it, this would have left the drain blocked for around ten days, which 
wouldnt be a reasonable length of time to wait. 
Mr Ks policy provided for: 
Unlimited claims  meaning theres no limit on the number of call outs you can 
make
I havent seen any evidence that Mr K was advised the cover had been limited after the 
second call out. Or that action was needed to restore the cover. I dont think that was 
reasonable. 
I think RSA should have attended a third time and clarified its recommendations regarding 
what investigatory work was thought necessary. So, I think its fair that RSA reimburse Mr 
Ks plumbers invoice of £96. Whose work does appear to have resolved the problem, 
suggesting a CCTV survey wasnt required in this case.
Mr K hasnt provided any evidence that he didnt have access to other washing facilities. So, 
I dont think takeaway food was his only option and it wouldnt be reasonable to ask RSA to 
reimburse these expenses. 
RSA accepts there was a delay in confirming it wouldnt reattend without the CCTV survey 
being carried out. I think this delay caused Mr K trouble and upset as it delayed the clearing 
of the blockage. RSA should pay Mr K £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by 
this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr Ks plumbing bill of £96 and a further 
£50 in compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It should also give a 
certificate showing this if Mr K asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman