DRN-3180062
The complaint
Mr B complains Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Group 
(Swinton) failed to take sufficient steps to warn him about the cancellation of his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy through Swinton which started in March 2021 for his motorbike. In 
May 2021 Mr Bs underwriters decided they needed some more information, and asked 
Swinton to get this.
Swinton wrote to Mr Bs address on four separate occasions but didnt hear back. The policy 
was cancelled on 2 June 2021.
On 2 August 2021 Mr B was stopped by the police for driving without valid insurance  and 
his motorbike was impounded. He said he hadnt realised his policy had been cancelled. He 
paid £240 for the release of his motorbike  and said as Swinton had his phone number and 
email, they should have done more.
Swinton said Mr B had recorded his address as Address A, said he confirmed his motorbike 
was kept at that property, and sent him policy documents in the post. On 12 March 2021, 
around five days after taking out the policy, Mr B called up saying hed not received the 
policy documents. When identifying Mr B, he gave a different address, Address B. Swinton 
said if Mr B was living at Address A, then it didnt need to be changed, which Mr B 
confirmed, but as hed not received the policy documents, they emailed them to him.
They said the underwriters of Mr Bs policy then got in touch as a result of routine audit 
asking for a copy of Mr Bs driving licence, and proof of his no claims bonus. Swinton said 
they wrote to Mr B at Address A on 10 and 17 May  and with no reply wrote again on 26 
May saying the policy would be cancelled on 2 June if no reply was received. As no reply 
was received the policy was cancelled. Swinton said they calculated a refund of £207.67 and 
paid that back to Mr Bs card the same day. Overall, Swinton said theyd written two letters 
asking Mr B to get in touch, sent a cancellation notice and then confirmation the policy had 
been cancelled to the address hed given them. They said they established over the phone 
he was living at the address and Mr B hadnt asked them to change it.
Mr B asked us to look into things. He said he wasnt asking for the cost of releasing his 
motorbike anymore. But he wanted acknowledgement Swinton didnt handle things as 
thoroughly as they should have and wanted a refund of the premium hed lost.
One of our Investigators looked into things. Overall, he felt Swinton had acted fairly by 
writing to an address Mr B had given them (Address A) on four occasions. 
Mr B didnt accept this. He said that as a result of his call to Swinton on 12 March 2021 they 
were on notice postal communications to Address A were suspect. He said he confirmed the 
address should continue to be used for the policy but Swinton knew the address hadnt 
worked previously. Mr B said after sending four written communications to the same address 
and not receiving replies  and given a previous communication had failed  they should 
have tried to call or email him as they had his details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only looking at the actions of Swinton in this complaint. 
From what I can see after they were asked to carry out the audit on Mr B they wrote to his 
registered address on four occasions.
I think its worth explaining this is probably more times than Id usually expect a broker to 
have written to a policyholder to get this kind of information. So, I cant say at face value 
theyve done anything wrong.
From the information Ive seen, which was relayed to Mr B and which hes not disputed, he 
set the policy up online, using Address A, and set his communication preferences to post. 
Ive also seen the letters, and theyre all correctly addressed.
Generally, we accept if a letter is correctly addressed its likely to have been received. Why 
Mr B didnt receive any of the four letters Swinton sent over a four-week period I cant say  
but Im satisfied they sent them.
Ive noted Mr Bs point that Swinton were on notice post wasnt being received at Address A. 
Hes made this point as a result of the policy documents not arriving. But I cant agree 
Swinton being aware two months earlier those policy documents hadnt arrived is proof post 
to that address just isnt working at all. 
I do understand Mr Bs frustration Swinton didnt call or email him. But Im satisfied theyve 
attempted to contact him, at the address hes given them, by post as hes chosen, on four 
occasions with correctly addressed letters  which is perhaps more than I might expect. So, 
taking everything into account, Im satisfied Swinton have acted fairly in how they tried to get 
this information from Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman