DRN-1117488
complaint
Mr M is unhappy with his life assurance policy sold by National Westminster.
background
In January 2016 Mr M took out an Over 50s Life Assurance policy in branch at NatWest. 
The policy was underwritten by a third party but Mr M complained that NatWest didnt tell 
him this and that he would never have taken out the policy had hed known. 
NatWest said that Mr M self-selected the policy after speaking with one of its Protection 
Consultants who, at the time, would have simply have provided information on the types of 
protection policies NatWest could offer along with the benefits the provided. So as no advice 
or recommendations were made to him, it would have been up to Mr M to decide what policy 
he wanted to take out.
NatWest also explained that the documentation he received following taking out the policy 
made it clear that the policy was underwritten by a third party. This included a plan 
information pack which contained a notice of cancellation allowing Mr M to cancel the policy 
if it wasnt suitable for him.
Mr M didnt agree, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened and didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. She said that as the 
policy was sold on a non-advised basis, NatWest cant be held responsible for the sale of it. 
She said it was Mr Ms decision to take out the policy and so it was his responsibility to 
ensure the policy suited his needs. 
Our investigator also explained that the documentation sent to Mr M about the policy ought 
to have made him aware that it was underwritten by a third party.
Mr M remains unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but Ill 
explain why. 
I wasnt present at the time of the sale and so its difficult for me to say with any certainty 
what was explained to Mr M. NatWest says that the policy was taken out on a self-select 
basis and so no advice was given to him. Mr M says NatWest shouldve told him the policy 
was underwritten by a third party. 
Whether the sale was advised or not, it had a responsibility to ensure all significant 
exclusions and limitations was brought to Mr Ms attention. This was so Mr M could decide 
for himself if the policy was suitable if it were a non-advised sale or so NatWest could make 
a recommendation on suitability for him if it was an advised sale. Most assurance policies are underwritten by a separate underwriting company to that of the 
selling company, and I think more likely than not Mr M ought to have reasonably been aware 
of this. Mr M hasnt told us he asked NatWest about the underwriter at the time of sale and I 
havent seen any evidence which suggests this was discussed as the only documentation 
available from the time of sale is limited to that which was sent to the underwriter. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think if Mr M was concerned about not having a 
certain third party as the underwriter, he wouldve queried this. In the absence of such, I 
think more likely than not Mr M was happy to proceed with the policy at the time. 
Ive also considered whether the documentation Mr M was sent following the sale made it 
clear that the policy was underwritten by a third party. 
The policy information pack lists the third party as the administrator and underwriter of the 
policy throughout the document. In particular, in the page titled  Important note  Your right 
to change your mind, it says that:
Although youve taken out the above policy with [third party], you still have the right to 
change your mind and cancel your policy if you wishIf you decide to cancel the policy, 
please send the Notice of cancellation to [third party]If you cancel the policy within 30 
days, we will refund any money you have paid [third party].
So, I think Mr M ought to have known that the policy was underwritten by a third party 
sooner, especially if this was a concern for him. And had he done so, he could have 
cancelled the policy at no cost within the cancellation period if he didnt want to go ahead 
with it.
my final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2019. 
John Norton
Ombudsman