DRN-3703836
The complaint
Mr W complains that AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Investcentre (AJ Bell)
incorrectly calculated how much of the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) had been used. Mr W says
that led him to making further pension contributions resulting in a higher tax liability.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 31 August 2022. Ive repeated here the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings. 
I dont think the facts are in dispute. In the main Ive adopted the summary of events set out
in AJ Bells final response letter dated 4 June 2020.
In April 2015 Mr W transferred his SIPP (self invested personal pension) to AJ Bell. The
transfer value was £399,964.74 and the previous SIPP provider told AJ Bell that amount was
fully crystallised on 20 February 2003 and Mr Ws maximum income limit was £55,289.70.
In August 2015 AJ Bell received a SIPP benefit form from Mr Ws financial adviser. Mr W
wanted to crystallise the entire amount of his uncrystallised funds with AJ Bell (£53,861.19)
and be paid the maximum PCLS (pension commencement lump sum) available to him. As
this was Mr Ws first benefit crystallisation event (BCE) following the changes introduced on
6 April 2006 (A Day) AJ Bell needed to determine how much of the LTA Mr W had used.
The LTA for the tax year 2015/2016 was £1,250,000. For Mr Ws pre A Day pension, AJ Bell
had to multiply the maximum taxable income available to Mr W (£55,789.70) by 25 and apply
80% of it. That was £1,105,794 which equated to 88.46% of the LTA.
AJ Bell overlooked carrying out that calculation. Instead AJ Bell paid £13,465.30 as a PCLS
to Mr W on 21 September 2015 and the remaining £40,395.89 was allocated to drawdown.
That used 4.30% of Mr Ws remaining LTA. So hed used 92.76% of his LTA with 7.24%
remaining.
Mr W made further contributions to his SIPP. On 5 April 2016 he made a contribution of
£48,000 net and on 19 April 2016 he made a further contribution of £87,000 net. On 18 May
2016 AJ Bell received a further SIPP benefit form from Mr Ws advisers. Mr W wanted to
crystallise the remainder of his uncrystallised funds and receive the maximum PCLS
payment available.
A PCLS payment of £42,059 55 was made to Mr W on 31 May 2016 with £126,178 64
allocated to drawdown. That used 16.82% of his LTA, and 21.12% overall with AJ Bell. But
Mr W only had 7.24% of his LTA remaining. The payment resulted in him being 13.88% over
his LTA.
Mr Ws adviser emailed AJ Bell on 20 March 2020 and queried Mr Ws fund split. At that
point AJ Bell identified the error and telephoned Mr Ws adviser on 24 March 2020 to inform
them and say that AJ Bell was investigating the matter.
Mr Ws adviser said Mr W wanted a PCLS payment. AJ Bell emailed Mr Ws adviser on 4
April 2020 (a Saturday) and explained how the LTA had been exceeded and that thered
been a PCLS overpayment of £23,959 55. AJ Bell outlined Mr Ws options to rectify the
matter and asked how he wished to proceed.
Further emails were exchanged. Mr Ws advisers asked that AJ Bell make a gross income
payment of £80,000 to Mr W which AJ Bell did (with the usual £25 plus VAT CHAPS transfer
charge waived).
Mr Ws adviser said Mr W had made decisions regarding his SIPP based on the (incorrect)
information AJ Bell had provided and so AJ Bell should cover any tax liability Mr W incurred.
AJ Bell said it hadnt calculated Mr Ws PCLS payment correctly in August 2015, despite AJ
Bell having procedures and controls in place to prevent LTAs being exceeded. Under HM
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) regulations, any payment made over the maximum
allowance must be returned or it may be deemed an unauthorised payment. Where an
unauthorised payment has occurred, the beneficiary will face tax charges. AJ Bell set out
what it saw as Mr Ws options:
Return the £23,959 55 overpaid PCLS to the SIPP;
Treat the £23,959 55 as an income payment and send the tax that should have been
paid at the time to HMRC;
Report it as an unauthorised payment  AJ Bell had detailed the tax charges for that
in previous correspondence.
AJ Bell wasnt prepared to cover any tax costs Mr W might incur as tax would be payable on
the amount Mr W received in any event. AJ Bell apologised for the poor service Mr W had
received and offered a payment of £250.
In reply, Mr Ws adviser said Mr W had been misled by AJ Bells incorrect certifications and
that had resulted in a course of actions which put Mr W in breach of HMRCs rules. Mr W
didnt consider that AJ Bells response dealt with the underlying issue  the provision of
incorrect information on multiple occasions. Mr Ws adviser said, because of the erroneous
information certified by AJ Bell as correct, Mr W had invested funds which meant hed
unknowingly exceeded the LTA and he now faced a substantial tax charge for which he held
AJ Bell responsible. 
AJ Bell wasnt prepared to accept responsibility for the tax charges.
Mr W referred the complaint to us. He said that rectifying the errors would cost his pension
fund £60,000. The whole issue was caused by the supply of incorrect information. Even
though AJ Bell accepts it gave incorrect information it refused to accept responsibility for his
financial losses.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He said, if AJ Bell had given Mr W
accurate information about the LTA, Mr W wouldnt have made the withdrawals taking him
over the LTA. But Mr W, having made those withdrawals, didnt want to return the overpaid
tax-free cash. So he was liable for the tax charges, either as income or if he takes it as an
unauthorised payment. The investigator didnt think AJ Bell should cover Mr Ws tax liability.
Mr W had said he wouldnt have made the further contributions of £48,000 and £87,000 (in
respect of which tax relief had been given) in 2015/16 and 2016/17 respectively. The
investigator accepted that Mr W wouldve made other arrangements for those funds. The
investigator said AJ Bell should assess if Mr W had suffered any loss, depending on where
the funds were held before Mr W made the contributions to the SIPP and if the moneywouldve been invested elsewhere. The investigator also thought that a higher sum - £350 - 
more fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience Mr W had been caused.
AJ Bell agreed to the £350 but said it was unable to carry out the calculation the investigator
had requested. Amongst other things, it said Mr Ws adviser hadnt provided any details as
to where the funds wouldve been invested if they hadnt been contributed to the SIPP. AJ
Bell noted that Mr Ws adviser had told AJ: It is difficult for us to indicate an alternative
investment vehicle in hindsight. We advised on suitability at the time.
Even if that information was forthcoming, AJ Bells position was that Mr W had been
financially advantaged by making the contributions to his SIPP, taking into account the tax
relief that had been given. In summary:
Mr W was an additional rate tax payer in the tax year in which the contributions were
made and hed have received 45% tax relief on the contributions (20% at source plus
25% claimed by or on behalf of Mr W from HMRC). The total tax relief paid into the
pension was £33,750. Plus the additional rate tax relief of £36,750 so £70,500 in all.
Immediately after the contributions had been made, Mr W wouldve been £70,500
better off due to the tax relief.
From the two options given to rectify this, the highest tax charge that would be
payable is £25,284.55. That would still leave £45,215.45 excess tax relief. The
contributions and subsequent BCEs have not caused a financial detriment compared
to if the funds had been held personally during the same period. Any growth on the
fund value within the pension would have also been compounded by the additional
value, due to the tax relief, compared to if the funds were held outside the pension.
AJ Bell added that if the funds were still held personally, theyd form part of Mr Ws estate for
Inheritance tax (IHT) purposes, charged at 40% above the nil rate band. The funds in the
SIPP are held in trust and wont form part of Mr Ws estate. So paying into the pension may
result in a potential IHT saving for Mr Ws estate of 40% of the amount contributed.
We shared AJ Bells comments with Mr W. He said AJ Bell had acknowledged the
information it supplied was incorrect. His understanding was that he should be entitled to rely
on it. The tax relief on the payments in had been emphasised but not the tax payable. The
potential IHT saving was a red herring as other investments were available at the time to
take the amounts paid outside his estate and provide tax deferred spendable income. There
was no mention of the fact that any withdrawals from the fund are subject to income tax at
his marginal rate both before and after his death. In effect the fund value is reduced by 40%
on withdrawal.
The investigator commented that the contributions were subject to tax relief when they were
made and the growth on the investments will be on top of the tax relief. Hence AJ Bell had
calculated that the LTA charge was less than the tax relief Mr W had received. Mr W would
always have had to pay tax at his marginal rate when taking income and he was willing to
make the contributions regardless.
Mr W said that AJ Bells calculations had taken too long to produce and were one sided. And
ignored the fact that as the contributions were now in his pension fund hed pay 40% tax on
any withdrawals. He asked if he should ask a consultant actuary to assess his position
In reply, the investigator maintained the contributions were subject to tax relief when they
were made and the growth on the investments was on top of that. AJ Bell had calculated that
the LTA charge is less than the tax relief Mr W had received. Hed always have had to pay
tax at his marginal rate when taking income and he was willing to make the contributions
anyway. Although we wouldnt expect Mr W to get his own calculations done he could do soif he wished. We wouldnt ask AJ Bell to cover the cost unless we felt it appropriate if AJ
Bells calculations were incorrect.
The investigator said as Mr W didnt agree with AJ Bells loss calculation the matter would be
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AJ Bell accepts that it has made errors. It didnt take into account Mr Ws pre A Day pension
when it calculated how much of the LTA Mr W had used when it paid benefits to Mr W in
2015 and 2016. And the mistake didnt come to light until 2020.
Mr W did have an adviser in place throughout. Arguably the adviser shouldve been aware
as to the history of Mr Ws pension arrangements and that hed taken benefits pre A Day and
the calculations that needed to be undertaken for subsequent BCEs. But equally it was up to
AJ Bell to pay benefits in accordance with the prevailing tax regime and to carry out any LTA
calculations correctly.
Initially Mr Ws adviser said that AJ Bell should meet the tax charges resulting from the
overpaid PCLS. I dont think that would be fair. Where a mistake has been made, wed
usually expect the consumer to take any reasonable steps open to them to help sort things
out. Here I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr W couldnt have returned the overpaid
PCLS. Or elected to have it treated as an income payment and paid the tax on it. As I
understand it, Mr W didnt want to do either. I dont think AJ Bell is responsible for any tax
liability that Mr W has incurred.
Mr Ws position is that he should be able to rely on the information which AJ Bell supplied. I
dont disagree with that. Mr W has explained that he relied on the incorrect information by
making two further pension contributions (£48,000 and £87,000) which he wouldnt have
made if hed been given the correct information.
I accept what Mr W says  that he wouldnt have made those two contributions. Mr W says
hes now worse off financially than if he hadnt made those contributions. I think thats the
issue  whether Mr W relied on the incorrect information to his financial detriment.
AJ Bell doesnt agree that Mr W has suffered a financial loss, taking into account the tax
relief, plus any investment growth (which, as the contributions are held inside a pension
wrapper, is tax free.) Mr W says that it isnt just about the tax treatment of the money when
its paid in but also what happens when the money is paid out  hes pointed to the tax that
hell have to pay if he withdraws the money that he wouldnt otherwise have paid into the
SIPP. I understand Mr Ws position. But I think both aspects have to be considered. Mr W
has more money in his SIPP than he would have had, if he hadnt made the further
contributions. And hell have to pay tax at his marginal rate if he withdraws it as income from
his SIPP. But I dont see thats a financial loss as such  Mr W was always going to have to
pay income tax on any income withdrawals from his SIPP. And the benefit of the tax relief on
the contributions outweighs the tax hell suffer.
From the calculations that AJ Bell has undertaken, Mr W isnt financially worse off. Mr W has
mentioned a loss to his pension fund of £60,000 but Im not sure how thats been calculated.
In any event, it seems that the benefit to him in terms of tax relief is more - some £70,500.
If Mr W maintains he is worse off, he and/or his adviser will need to explain why thats thecase with calculations in support together with, if appropriate, details of what Mr W wouldve
done differently if AJ Bell had provided correct information. As the investigator has
explained, its unlikely that wed award the costs of any advice Mr W has to take unless it is
instrumental in showing that AJ Bells calculations are wrong and Mr Ws overall financial
position has been adversely affected by AJ Bells admitted errors.
As things stand, I dont think Mr W has suffered any financial loss. I agree hes suffered
distress and inconvenience. I think the £350 the investigator suggested and which AJ Bell is
prepared to pay is fair and reasonable.
In response to my provisional decision Mr W said he was very disappointed but he didnt 
offer any further comments. We havent received any further comments from AJ Bell. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in full above my provisional findings and these form part of this decision. In the 
absence of any further comments, arguments, evidence or information, my views remain as 
set out in my provisional decision. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think Mr W has suffered any financial loss as a result of AJ 
Bells error. Mr W has suffered distress and inconvenience and AJ Bell has agreed to pay 
him £350 for that. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Investcentre 
must pay Mr W £350 as compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman