DRN-3626822
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCF) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the British Steel Pension Scheme, 
the employers DB scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred to 
possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer 
to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, 
a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr E approached DCF in August 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was 
also concerned about the future of the BSPS. 
DCF completed a fact-find in August 2017 to gather information about Mr Es circumstances 
and objectives. This showed that:
He was age 48 and he was married with two non-dependent children
He was employed at Tata Steel with an annual salary of £35,000. Mrs E wasnt 
currently employed. 
Mr and Mrs E owned their property which was worth £90,000, they had an 
outstanding mortgage of £53,000. They also had a car loan. 
Mr E was a member of his employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. He 
and his employer were paying a total of 16% of his salary into this.
DCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Es attitude to risk. It was recorded that he had 
very little investment experience and no savings or investments. It said his attitude to risk 
was cautious to moderate. 
On 15 August 2017, DCF advised Mr E to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a range of funds that met his attitude to risk. Mr E 
transferred £388,459.99 into the personal pension.
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: 
He was uncertain of the future of the BSPS scheme, and about whether his benefits 
would be cut further. 
He wanted control of his pension to ensure it provided the flexibility and benefits that 
he needed. 
Mr E wanted to retire at age 55 and start taking benefits. 
Mr E wanted to avoid the penalties associated with accessing the BSPS before the 
schemes normal retirement date (NRD).
He was concerned about the inflexible death benefits. The BSPS only provided a 
spouses pension whereas he wanted to be able to pass on any of his unused 
pension fund to his children.
Mr E signed a document to confirm that he understood the risks of the transfer. And a 
summary document was provided to Mr E that outlined the pros and cons of the transfer 
and staying with the BSPS. 
While DCF and Mr E were going through the advice process, on 11 August 2017, Mr Es 
employer confirmed the terms of an agreement with the pensions regulator about the next 
steps for separating the BSPS from the company  which had been broadly agreed in May 
2017 and included a lump sum payment into the pension fund  had been signed. This 
announcement included confirmation that agreement had also been reached about the 
sponsorship, by Mr Es employer, of the BSPS2.
Then on 25 August 2017, an important update was issued in respect of BSPS transfer 
values. This explained that the expected lump sum payment into the BSPS by Mr Es 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with 
unexpired transfer values, as in Mr Es case, updated valuations would be issued around 
October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017.
And on 11 September 2017 there was a further announcement, confirming the agreed 
payment had been made into the BSPS by Mr Es employers and the separation of the 
BSPS from the company had been completed. This set out that members would have to 
make a choice between staying in the BSPS or moving to the BSPS2 and explained that 
personalised information and illustrations would be provided in October 2017 to assist with 
that choice and that members would have until December 2017 to decide. 
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or transfer 
their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 December (and 
was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr E complained in 2021 to DCF about the suitability of the transfer advice. He didnt think 
the advice was right for him and he had probably lost out because of it. 
DCF didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said that it considered Mr Es circumstances in full 
and it gave clear and suitable advice which included a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). 
It ensured that Mr E was aware of, and comfortable with, the risks of the DB transfer. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that DCF pay compensation. Our Investigator said that, due to the critical 
yields, the transfer was likely to leave Mr E worse off in retirement. It wasnt likely that he 
wanted to take the risk of the transfer. His existing arrangements would have met his needs 
and he should have been advised that either the BSPS2 or the PPF werent as detrimental 
as he thought they may be. Our Investigator thought that Mr E should have been advised to 
join the BSPS2. 
DCF disagreed, saying:It could not have advised Mr E to join the BSPS2. This was because it didnt exist at 
the time and it wasnt certain that it would in the future. It wasnt created until 
31 January 2018.
The most likely outcome at the time of advice was that Mr E would need to join the 
PPF. He didnt want this, he wanted to control his pension benefits. 
The industry regulator has reviewed some of its pension transfer advice cases and it 
didnt find any problems with them. It has kept pace with regulatory developments 
and ensured that the advice it gave was reasonable. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service shouldnt just rely on critical yields to determine if 
the advice was suitable. These should not be the focal point of the advice. Mr E was 
not looking to purchase an annuity. 
He wanted to use his funds flexibly, for example, he wanted to spend less when his 
state pension became payable. 
Discount rates also shouldnt be the focal point of the advice. That said, overall, the 
performance needed may have been achievable. Mr Es funds have performed well 
and should continue to do so. 
Mr E was informed that his personal pension would be subject to investment growth 
and he agreed with this. 
Mr E was fully informed about all aspects of the advice at the time of sale. DCF 
advised Mr E that the critical yields were unlikely to be achieved.
He would have proceeded in any event due to his concerns with the BSPS scheme 
and his employer. 
And in respect of any loss suffered DCF feels that this should be considered against 
the PPF rather than BSPS2 as this scheme didnt exist at the time of advice. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCF should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
DCF was gathering information and ultimately advised Mr E at a time when there was 
significant uncertainty and updates being issued about what was happening with the BSPS 
and the BSPS2. This included confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that 
details of the scheme would follow and that members would have until December 2017 to 
make a choice. It was also explained that the expected payment into the BSPS by Mr Es 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And that members with 
unexpired transfer values would be sent updated valuations  again likely improved ones  
which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017. And the lump sum payment to the 
BSPS was confirmed just before DCF gave Mr E advice.
However, DCF proceeded with the advice without really accounting for any of this. It didnt 
delay providing the advice so there were no comparisons carried out of the benefits the 
BSPS2 would potentially provide. And the advice was based on the CETV Mr E had 
received in July 2017, which was due to expire in October 2017.
Given what information the announcements indicated would be forthcoming, in order to give 
Mr E enough information to make a fully informed decision about what was in his best 
interests, I think DCF should have told Mr E to defer making a decision on the transfer until 
further details of the BSPS2 were known and revised transfer values received. 
Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, 
the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. The announcements indicated that 
Mr E would be afforded time to think about his options  so the deadline in the original 
transfer quotation became less relevant. And waiting wouldve allowed DCF to carry out an 
analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and to properly compare these to the alternatives, and base 
its advice on this. Because I think without doing this, DCF was acting on information which it 
knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could properly assess whether a transfer 
was in Mr Es best interests.
DCF has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr E through the PPF. But I think DCF 
overestimated the chance of this not happening. And full details of the scheme were going to 
be provided in the very near future; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits 
but the annual increases wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible it may not have gone 
ahead, but I still think the benefits available to Mr E through the BSPS2 shouldve been 
factored in with this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision.That said I think its reasonable to say that the information provided shows that the transfer 
wasnt in Mr Es best interests from a financial viability perspective anyway. Ill explain why. 
DCF carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Es pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). Just to reiterate this was partly based on his 
existing scheme benefits and Mr E didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either 
needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF.
Mr E was 48 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire, at the earliest, at age 55, 
although he was open to working longer. The critical yield required to match Mr Es benefits 
at age 65 was 7.29% if he took a full pension.  The same figure for a retirement at the age 
55 was shown as 12.82%. 
Its not clear why critical yields werent calculated assuming Mr E took some tax free cash, 
as this was one of his objectives. Clearly DCF should have done this. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
5.97% per year if Mr E took a full pension and 5.44% per year if he took tax free cash and a 
reduced PPF pension. There was no information about this for his age 55. 
As Ive said above, Mr E remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been provided by DCF in 
time. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical 
yields somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the 
PPF benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rates in this case were 4.3% per year for 16 years to retirement, that is 
his age 65. And it was 3.3% per year for six years to retirement, that is his age 55. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Es 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr E giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 5.44%, which was above both the discount rate and the regulators middle 
projection rate, I think Mr E was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his lower attitude 
to risk. Thats particularly the case given I think he ought to have been advised to join the 
BSPS2, and the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 were likely to be higher those 
applicable to the PPF.
DCF has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr E wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but DCFs models show that, 
assuming a medium rate of return, and Mr E taking the same benefits from the BSPS scheme, that his fund would run out between his ages 91 to 94. So, if there was a period of 
poor returns, or Mr E lived a long life, his fund was at risk of running out before he died.
And DCF also provided an estimate of the fund values he would need to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up in the DC scheme. At age 65 this was £965,991.37 and at age 55 
it was £782,897.25. These were far more than the transfer value, and what the transfer could 
reasonably be assumed to grow to. These give a revealing insight into the value of the 
benefits Mr E gave up when he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
And it was recognised at the time of sale that Mr E would be very unlikely to equal, or better, 
the BSPS pension. The suitability letter said the critical yield required is high and it would be 
very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are giving 
up.
DCF says that the critical yields are of limited relevance because they are based on the 
growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis 
as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. DCF says Mr E didnt want an annuity, it said he 
wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required DCF to consider the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant 
consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr E could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to 
retire for at least another six years and probably beyond this. Its entirely possible that Mr E 
would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by 
taking benefits from the DB scheme).
DCF also says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because 
taking this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent 
based my findings just on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking 
to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. 
Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be 
paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Es attitude to risk, which leads me to believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
DCF has said that the fund has at times performed well, which I dont disagree with. But, as 
DCF will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider 
the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard 
in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over a longer 
period of time. And even though Ive been told the fund has performed well it hasnt really 
performed at the levels needed to replicate the benefits Mr E gave up, for example its not 
provided the nearly 13% a year that it would need to replicate the DB pension at age 55. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Es best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as DCF 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. So, Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needsI think its reasonable to firstly say there was very little detail recorded about Mr Es 
circumstances at the time of sale. And there was very little analysis, or information about, his 
retirement wants or needs. 
That said it seems the main reason that DCF recommended this transfer was for the 
flexibility and control it offered Mr E. The point of sale documentation shows that Mr E 
wanted to retire at age 55 but anticipated his income needs falling from state pension age. 
So, DCF said varying his income could be useful. He was open to working longer. But 
ideally, he wanted to take his tax free cash and pension from age 55, without penalty. He 
could repay any debt he had and travel with his wife. 
It's evident that Mr E could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly in this way. Although he 
could choose to take tax free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr E had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr E had any concrete need to take 
tax free cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To 
my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. And, as above, 
it seems Mr E was willing to fully retire when the time was right rather than having a set age.
It was recorded that Mr E wanted his income in retirement to be between £20,000 and 
£21,700 per year. But I cant exactly see how this figure was arrived at. It looks like it was 
based on their current expenditure, whereas their actual needs in retirement might have 
been very different. For example, Mr and Mrs E wanted to repay their mortgage and travel.  
Which is a very different lifestyle to the one they had. 
It was noted that the DB scheme would provide just over £23,839 at Mr Es age 65 (based 
on the BSPS). And Mr E would also receive his state pension of around £9,000 per year a 
few years later. He would also have his DC scheme benefits which could be used either to 
provide an income or used more flexibly. So, its evident that Mr E would have enough to 
meet his income aims at 65, or very soon after. And his debts should have been repaid at 
this point. 
The TVAS showed that, at age 55, Mr E would receive a pension of just under £13,000. On 
the face of it this income was less than he said he needed. And this doesnt consider the tax 
free cash that Mr E said he wanted.  
DCF has essentially said that the personal pension was a way for Mr E to retire early despite 
this. As he could use the fund flexibly and take, for example, a greater income at the start 
and then reduce this when his other provisions and state pension became payable. 
Although, as Ive said above, it didnt really provide enough detail to say this was a realistic 
option for Mr E. 
And this doesnt give the full picture here. Mr E was a member of his new employers DC 
scheme and he and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary into this. If he 
remained a member for six to ten or so years, and his salary remained the same. He would 
build up a fund he could use flexibly. That said its not clear from the point of sale how Mr E 
would be able to fund retirement this early, especially if he needed tax free cash to repay a 
significant amount of his mortgage. 
So, it seems to me that one of the problems with the advice DCF gave is that it only looks at 
Mr Es retirement at ages of 55 and 65. Whilst it seems like it may have been possible for 
Mr E to retire at age 55 from the DB scheme this may not have been the best option for him. 
Many people would like to retire early. But, for most, early retirement means a significant 
drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most individuals spending power and 
lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an early retirement age, most people 
choose not to retire. Instead, they opt to continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to be a more likely prospect for Mr E. But theres no 
evidence that DCF seriously challenged Mr Es objective of retirement at age 55 and 
questioned how realistic that was for him. So, I dont think it met its obligations to challenge 
his objectives in light of what he would be giving up.
DCF persistently referred to the DB scheme providing a lower income at retirement if Mr E 
retired early. It described this as a penalty. But I dont think this is fair or balanced. Whilst 
the initial income from the DB scheme would be lower at early retirement this is to reflect the 
longer term that it will be in payment. It doesnt necessarily mean that Mr E will receive less 
overall, and it isnt a penalty. And I think describing it in this way meant it wasnt providing 
Mr E with information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
In summary, I think at whatever age Mr E took the benefits from his DB scheme it was likely 
to have been an important foundation for his retirement, providing a guaranteed amount that 
wouldve covered their main expenses. Meaning that any income received above this 
couldve allowed him and Mrs E to enjoy their retirement fully. 
So, I dont think the transfer from the DB scheme was in Mr Es best interests simply due to 
the increased flexibility it may have offered Mr E, which Im not persuaded he needed. I think 
Mr E couldve best met his income needs through the BSPS2 either at early retirement or the 
schemes normal retirement date
And if Mr E found that his circumstances changed and he did in fact need flexibility, if hed 
opted into the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out closer to his actual 
retirement age. So, ultimately I think any need for flexibility couldve been addressed nearer 
to his retirement.
Death benefits
Other than Mr Es general concerns about his employer and the scheme, and early 
retirement, it seems he was advised to transfer, in the main, due to the different death 
benefits a personal pension could offer. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr E. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to Mr E, and he might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCF explored to what extent 
Mr E was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr E 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr E predeceased her. I dont think DCF made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr E. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the 
cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left particularly if Mr E lived 
a long life.  In any event, DCF should not have encouraged Mr E to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr E genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think DCF 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. DCF says that Mr E couldnt have achieved his objective of leaving a lump sum to his wife and children without transferring his pension; Im 
unable to agree. Transferring his pension was clearly not the only way for Mr E to achieve 
this objective. Life assurance ought to have been explored in the first instance  Mr E was in 
good health so it was likely to be affordable.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr E, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF and his benefits would be 
reduced. 
So its quite possible that Mr E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, 
it was DCFs obligation to give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point some information about the BSPS2 was known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. So, the advice DCF gave Mr E shouldve properly 
encompassed the benefits likely to be available to him through the BSPS2. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated Mr Es concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCF shouldve 
reassured Mr E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr E through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of 
the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed 
this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns shouldve led to DCF recommending Mr E transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Es desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr E was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge 
to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a 
genuine objective for Mr E  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
It seems to me that Mr Es stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt fully trust, than to any resolution on his part to begin 
to manage his investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Es employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not the same. And in any event, Mr E was not intending to leave his employment and 
his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme 
didnt achieve a break from his employer. Had DCF explained that Mr Es belief regarding 
the control Mr Es employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he would have been 
reassured by this.
Suitability of investmentsDCF recommended that Mr E invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr E, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr E should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in these 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr E. But DCF 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr E might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr E needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr E was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr E was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr E shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to gain some flexibility, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. And I think DCF shouldve first 
recommended that he defer making a decision until further details of the BSPS2 were 
available and ultimately advised him against transferring.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr E had at least six years before 
he expected to retire, and he didnt really know what his needs in retirement would likely be. 
He seems to have had some ideas about what him and his wife wanted to do ideally, but no 
more than this. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr E wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr E was married, and his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr E chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2 in due course. And 
compensation should be based on this scheme. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr E would've gone ahead anyway, against DCF's 
advice. DCF argues that this is the case, saying that Mr E would still have gone ahead with 
the transfer as it met his needs and he was concerned about his benefits moving to the PPF. 
DCF says that regardless of the advice given, Mr E made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr E wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against DCFs advice. I say this because Mr E was an 
inexperienced investor with a lower attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision. So, if DCF had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Es concerns about his employer and the PPF were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If DCF had 
explained that Mr E was more likely to meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr E 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
I accept that DCF disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr E and provided him with a 
significant amount of information about the transfer. But ultimately it advised Mr E to transfer 
out, and I think Mr E relied on that advice.
In light of the above, I think DCF should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr E. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the DCF to put Mr E, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for DCFs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. I consider Mr E 
would have joined the BSPS2 and so compensation should be based on this. 
For clarity, Mr E has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
DCF may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date DCF receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCF to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCF to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
DCF pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman