DRN-4426668
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) assured him that a payment to a car 
dealership would be sent via faster payments. But when Mr W travelled to the car dealership 
with a friend and made the payment, it was not sent as a faster payment. This resulted in 
him being unable to collect the car hed purchased.
What happened
Lloyds considered the complaint and initially didnt find in Mr Ws favour, although it did pay 
Mr W £25 to apologise for the service hed received. 
After Mr W responded to Lloyds with further information, Lloyds reconsidered the complaint 
and agreed to uphold the complaint. Lloyds paid Mr W £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and also £135 to cover his travel costs. 
After looking into matter further, Lloyds was able to determine the reason why the payment 
was delayed and showed as pending in the car dealerships account. This was because, 
although the payment was sent as a Faster Payment as requested, Lloyds systems 
automatically changed the payment to being processed as a counter deposit. This had the 
effect of showing the transaction as pending in the recipients account until the following day.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and they concluded that what Lloyds had 
already paid Mr W to put things right was reasonable.
Mr W disagreed so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, overall whilst I can see things didnt go as they shouldve, I also 
think that the compensation that Lloyds has already paid Mr W is fair and reasonable  
largely for the same reasons that the investigator gave. As such, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
From everything I have seen its clear that Mr W did everything he could to ensure the 
payment to the car dealership was made on the same day he had arranged to collect the 
car. Given the circumstances, I can certainly see why Mr W was really frustrated when the 
payment didnt go through as hed been assured it would. And I can also appreciate the 
predicament he was in, given how far he lived from the car dealership, that hed borrowed 
his friends car to get to the car dealership and also that hed already paid for costs towards 
the car whilst he was waiting for the payment to go through - which wouldve made backing 
out of the purchase even more complicated.
I note that Mr W was given assurances at the time that the payment would be made on the 
same day. And it was only after Mr W had contacted the car dealership and Lloyds a number 
of times, did it become apparent that Lloyds systems had automatically changed the 
payment from being processed as a faster payment to being processed as a counter 
deposit. This had the unfortunate effect of only showing the transaction as pending, rather 
than showing as received, in the car dealerships account on the day of the transaction.
Lloyds has already paid Mr W £25 for the service he received, £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused, and also £135 for his travel costs. But Mr W says that the 
compensation Lloyds paid him is not enough. 
Specifically, Mr W says the trauma he experienced when buying the car resulted in him no 
longer wanting it, which resulted in him selling the car a short while later, at less than what 
hed paid for the car. Mr W also says that the amount paid to him by Lloyds doesnt reflect 
the fact he was without a car for a week and also that he was already out of work at the time 
due to stress.
I dont think it is reasonable that Lloyds should pay Mr W the difference between what he 
paid for the car and what he received, when he sold it a short while later. I say this because I 
can only hold Lloyds responsible for any loss that is reasonably foreseeable because of the 
delay in the payment being made. But in the circumstances, I cant say that Mr Ws decision 
to sell the car (because it reminded him of the trauma of buying it) is a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of the payment he made when buying the car being delayed.
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr W said that he was without a car for a 
week. And he says he was unable to work due to him previously suffering from stress, and 
this matter set him back - so says that the amount of compensation paid to him should be 
higher.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im fully aware that Mr W feels that a 
higher award of compensation is merited here. But the £500 that Lloyds has already paid 
does feel fair to me, in consideration of all the circumstances of this complaint and taking 
into account everything that Mr W has said. 
I do think that the amount Lloyds paid Mr W is broadly in line with what I may have instructed 
Lloyds to pay to Mr W, had it not already offered to do so. Because of this, I dont think that 
Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do anything more, to put matters right, in relation to this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman