DRN-2395369
The complaint
Mr W complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have unfairly 
declined his claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Mr W has brought his complaint with the help of a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill 
just refer to Mr W himself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Mr W has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by DAS. In 
2020 Mr W contacted DAS as he wanted legal assistance in relation to problems with his 
home. 
Mr W explained that there was movement damage to his home. A claim had been made for 
subsidence to his buildings insurer but the expert reports had concluded that the movement 
was as a result of foundations that were too shallow rather than subsidence. Mr W wanted to 
explore his options in relation to pursuing the developer/builder, and other parties whod had 
involvement in the building / signing off of his home or providing a warranty. Mr W said his 
home was originally built in around 2006 or 2007 and that he had purchased it in July 2015. 
DAS declined the claim. They said theyd considered it under the contract disputes section 
of the policy. They relied on policy conditions regarding the date of occurrence of the insured 
incident and that any agreement must have been entered into within the period of insurance. 
And as Mr Ws policy wasnt incepted until September 2019  they said the claim wasnt 
covered. 
Mr W complained, he also said that he believed the contract dispute section to be irrelevant 
as he wasnt the first homeowner and that he hadnt entered into a contract with any of the 
parties that may be liable. He pointed out that he believed he was covered under the 
property protection section of his policy for the alleged deceit of the builder / warranty 
provider and also potentially for nuisance from his neighbours in relation to tree roots from 
trees on their land. 
DAS responded and again highlighted a policy term referring to the date of occurrence of an 
insured incident. But they accepted the claim had only been considered against the contract 
disputes section of the policy and said they would now review it in terms of property 
protection. 
On 24 April 2020 DAS responded to the complaint and gave referral rights to our service. In 
summary they maintained their position about the date of occurrence predating the start of 
the policy and they pointed out that Mr W might potentially be covered by other insurance. 
On 27 April 2020 DAS again contacted Mr W and asked some further questions to enable 
them to give consideration to the claim under the property protection section of the policy. In 
his response Mr W didnt answer the questions and pointed out that DAS had issued a final 
complaint response and that the matter would now be with our service. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint. She thought DAS had acted fairly and 
didnt recommend that they needed to do anything further. Mr W maintains that DAS havent 
fairly applied the term in relation to the date of occurrence and asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy says We agree to provide you with the insurance in this section, as long as 
the date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance The term 
date of occurrence is given a specific definition of For civil cases, the date of occurrence is 
the date of the event which may lead to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at the 
same time or from the same cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first of these 
events. (This is the date the event happened, which may be before the date you first became 
aware of it).
Terms like this are very common to this type of insurance and I dont think this term is 
inherently unfair. The policy is intended to cover the risk of something occurring in the future. 
I dont think excluding things that happened (or started) before the policy was in place is 
unfair or unreasonable. 
What is in dispute here is the date of the event which may lead to a claim. Mr W says the 
event is his discovery of potential fraud which he says happened within the insured period. 
He says the date of discovery would be the relevant date for the purposes of the limitation 
period. DAS say that the event leading to the claim is the date of any alleged negligent act. 
They say this would be either when the builder built the property, or when the surveyor 
certified it or when any warranty was provided. They say as all these events pre-date the 
policy, the claim has been fairly declined. 
I dont think in the circumstances of this complaint DAS have unfairly applied this policy term. 
The term is clear that the date of event may well be before the date of discovery and that if it 
can be said that there is more than one event, then the date of occurrence will be the first of 
these. I dont think DAS are being unreasonable in concluding that the date of occurrence 
pre-dates the policy (which started in September 2019). Ive considered Mr Ws point about 
what the relevant date might be for the purposes of limitation, but that doesnt persuade me 
that it means DAS have incorrectly or unfairly applied the policy term. And as DAS pointed 
out in their complaint response, if Mr W has had continuous LEI cover, a previous insurer of 
his may be able to assist.  
Following their decision to decline the claim Mr W asked that DAS consider his claim under 
the property protection section of his policy. DAS agreed to do so and on 27 April 2020 they 
wrote to him asking further questions to allow such consideration to take place. As Mr W 
didnt respond to those questions, DAS say they were unable to progress things further. I 
dont think that was unreasonable. And whilst I can understand Mr Ws frustration  I dont 
think its unreasonable for an insurer to insist on the co-operation of a policyholder when 
considering a claim. If Mr W were to respond to the questions DAS asked, Id expect them to 
respond as they had previously offered to. Overall, I dont think DAS have treated Mr W unfairly and so Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman