DRN-3205601
The complaint
Miss T complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Lending) lent to her 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss T has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company
(CMC). But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having
been with, and from, Miss T herself.
Miss T was given a loan by Everyday Lending in February 2019. She borrowed £4,700 and 
agreed to repay this over 48 months.
Miss Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. After reviewing all of the 
documentation sent by both parties, they felt Everyday Lending had made a fair lending 
decision. They didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Miss T didnt agree with our investigator. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all these things in mind, and Ive thought carefully about the information Everyday 
Lending relied on when it decided to lend to Miss T.
Everyday Lending gathered some information from Miss T before it agreed to lend. It asked 
Miss T about her income and expenditure. It says it verified her income using an online tool. 
It also carried out a credit check. Those checks suggested Miss T had enough disposable 
income each month to comfortably afford the loan repayments. 
Miss T was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Lending. She was agreeing 
to make monthly repayments of £200.75 for a period of 48 months. So, I think it is right that 
Everyday Lending wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Miss Ts financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks 
it did were sufficient to achieve that aim. I think Everyday Lendings checks were 
proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Everyday Lending gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it 
made a fair lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that Everyday Lending conducted. The search did show 
that Miss T had several defaults against her name from 2015 and 2016. But I currently think 
Everyday Lending took all of this into consideration when it made its affordability 
assessment. I think these defaults were from at least 3 years previous to the application for 
this loan, and Miss T had in more recent times had a track record of paying what she owed 
on time. There was nothing within Miss Ts credit search results that I think ought to have 
prompted it to find out more or anything that would give it concerns. 
Miss T told Everyday Lending that her income was £2,400, and this was validated. It then 
calculated that her living expenses was £815 after using Office of National Statistics data to 
calculate her living expenses. It also took into consideration her credit commitments and 
when it had calculated all of this, it assessed that she had £1,004 in disposable income a 
month. I think when I consider how much Miss Ts verified monthly income was, and what it 
had calculated her disposable income was, I think the credit she had taken out was 
comfortably affordable for her.
I think that the checks Everyday Lending performed were proportionate and didnt suggest 
that Miss T was facing any current problems in managing her finances at that time. I think 
Everyday Lending was entitled to rely on what Miss T said about her finances, and what it 
found out about her circumstances at the time. And that information suggested that she 
would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont think Everyday 
Lending was wrong to give the loan to Miss T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mark RichardsonOmbudsman