DRN-2374694
The complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services, has terminated the hire purchase agreement under which a used car was supplied 
to him.
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Audi Financial Services in December 
2018 for it to supply a used car to him. The car was about seven months old, had been 
driven for 5,934 miles and had a price of £33,850. 
Mr S electronically signed the hire purchase agreement in December 2018  he made an 
advance payment of £710.07 and agreed to make 48 monthly payments of £498.81 and a 
final payment of £16,482.50 for the car. The agreement included a maximum annual limit of 
10,000 miles.
He contacted Audi Financial Services in January 2019 to change the details of his direct 
debit  but it didnt change them correctly so the payments due from Mr S werent collected. 
It sent him an arrears notice in February 2019 and a reminder in March 2019 and it then sent 
him a default notice. He didnt take the action specified in the default notice by the due date 
so Audi Financial Services tried to contact him by phone and e-mail in April 2019 and asked 
him to contact it within seven days. He didnt contact it so it terminated the agreement in May 
2019 and said that he would be contacted to arrange for the car to be returned or for the 
outstanding balance of his account to be repaid.
It instructed a third party to collect the car in June 2019  and the car was seized by the 
police because on an unrelated issue and the third party collected the car from the police. 
Mr S contacted Audi Financial Services and said that hed been out of the country for five 
months so he was advised to contact the third party but the car was sold and the proceeds 
of sale were credited to Mr Ss account.
Mr S complained to Audi Financial Services and it said that it had noticed in April 2019 that 
the change to his direct debit hadnt been uploaded correctly so it tried to contact him by 
phone and e-mail but no call back was received. It said that it partially upheld his complaint 
as it should have updated his direct debit and it sincerely apologised.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She said that Audi Financial 
Services failed to carry out Mr Ss instructions in a reasonable time frame so should pay him 
£150 to compensate him for the inconvenience caused.
Audi Financial Services has accepted that recommendation but Mr S has asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, that Audi Financial 
Services had no right to terminate the agreement unless it contacted him. 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Audi Financial Services on 29 September 2020. In my provisional decision I said as 
follows:
We offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by 
customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances - although we do take account of applicable law and 
regulations we also consider the overall situation - so its possible that a court would 
reach a different outcome to the decision that Ive made.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the reason that the payments were 
missed and the account went into arrears was because Audi Financial Services 
hadnt updated Mr Ss direct debit details correctly  that isnt something for which he 
was responsible. It noticed its error in April 2019 but that was after it had sent him a 
notice of default and it phoned and emailed him and asked him to contact it. He didnt 
do so and he said that he was overseas (but hes since said that he was working 
away from home in this country) and it terminated his agreement two weeks after it 
had noticed its error. I dont consider that to have been fair or reasonable.
It would be reasonable to expect Mr S to have checked his bank account so he ought 
reasonably to have noticed that his direct debit wasnt being collected by Audi 
Financial Services. It sent him arrears notices and a default notice which he didnt 
respond to  but he says that he was working away from home and became aware of 
the issues with his account when he returned in June 2019 (but the information that 
hes provided about this is inconsistent) and, other than the deposit, he hasnt made 
any payment to Audi Financial Services.
I consider that it would be reasonable for Audi Financial Services to have withdrawn 
the default notice in April 2019 when it became aware that it had made an error about 
Mr Ss direct debit. After it became aware of its error the only action it took was a 
phone call and an e-mail to Mr S asking him to contact it and it then terminated his 
agreement. I consider that it would be reasonable to expect it to have done more in 
these circumstances before it terminated the agreement.
Mr S has been asked to provide evidence to show that he would have been able to 
clear the arrears on his account before the agreement was terminated by Audi 
Financial Services  hes provided statements for his bank account for February to 
May 2019 which show that for the period in May 2019 covered by the statements the 
account didnt have a balance of more than £219.70  and Im not persuaded that 
hes provided enough evidence to show that he would have been able to clear the 
arrears on his account if hed received a notice of arrears from Audi Financial 
Services.
The consequences of the termination are severe for Mr S  the car has been 
repossessed, hes expected to pay the outstanding balance on his account (which 
has been kept as £10,414.53 since July 2019), hes lost the advance payment of 
£710.07 that he made for the car and adverse information will have been recorded on 
his credit file. I dont consider that to be fair or reasonable in these circumstances.
The car has been sold and Mr Ss agreement has been terminated and I dont 
consider that it would be appropriate for me to require Audi Financial Services to 
provide him with a replacement car or to reinstate his agreement. When the car was 
collected in June 2019 its mileage was recorded as 25,004  so in seven months 
Mr S had driven nearly 20,000 miles in the car. But hed agreed to a maximum annual mileage of 10,000 and hadnt made any payments for the car, other than his 
deposit.
These are unusual circumstances and in determining what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable I have to take account of all of the evidence and the actions of both Mr S 
and Audi Financial Services. Audi Financial Services accepts that it made an error in 
not dealing with Mr Ss direct debit correctly, I consider that it would be reasonable 
for it to have withdrawn the default notice in April 2019 when it became aware that it 
had made an error about Mr Ss direct debit and that it would be reasonable to 
expect it to have done more in these circumstances before it terminated the 
agreement.
But Mr S was able to use the car to drive nearly 20,000 miles in seven months and I 
consider that he ought reasonably to have known that he hadnt made any of the 
monthly payments to Audi Financial Services required under the agreement and he 
didnt respond to the default notice and other communications from Audi Financial 
Services until after his car had been collected from the police by the third party. Hes 
also provided inconsistent information to Audi Financial Services and this service.
The balance of Mr Ss account after the car has been sold and his agreement 
terminated is £10,414.53 and, because of the errors that its made, I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Audi Financial Services to 
reduce that amount by the deposit of £710.07 that Mr S paid for the car and a further 
£150 because of the distress and inconvenience that these events will have caused 
Mr S. That will reduce the outstanding balance on the account to £9,554.46. If Mr S 
pays that amount to Audi Financial Services within 28 days of my decision I consider 
that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to remove any information about the 
hire purchase agreement from his credit file.
If Mr S doesnt pay it that amount within 28 days of my decision, I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to amend the adverse information that its 
recorded about the agreement on Mr Ss credit file to show that the amount of the 
default was £9,554.46 and that it should try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with Mr S for that amount. If Mr S is experiencing financial difficulties, 
its required to respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically.
So subject to any further representations by Mr S or Audi Financial Services, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Both Mr S and Audi Financial Services have accepted my provisional decision though Mr S 
says that he can't pay the outstanding amount in one sum but wants to sort this out and set 
up a repayment plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr S and Audi Financial Services have accepted my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change the outcome that I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Audi Financial Services to reduce the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ss account to £9,554.46. If Mr S pays that amount to Audi 
Financial Services within 28 days of my decision I consider that it would also be fair and 
reasonable for it to remove any information about the hire purchase agreement from his 
credit file.
If Mr S doesnt pay it that amount within 28 days of my decision, I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable for it to amend the adverse information that its recorded about the 
agreement on Mr Ss credit file to show that the amount of the default was £9,554.46 and 
that it should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with Mr S for that amount. If 
Mr S is experiencing financial difficulties, its required to respond to those difficulties 
positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and I order Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services, to take the actions described 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman