DRN-4371695
The complaint
Mr W complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling Bank) wont refund him for transactions 
he says he wasnt responsible for. 
What happened
In June 2023 six transactions were made from Mr Ws Starling Bank which he says werent 
made by him. He says his card and wallet were stolen while abroad on holiday. Mr W 
checked his account after realising that his wallet was stolen and informed Starling Bank that 
the transactions were not made by him. 
Mr W also said that he believes he may have been watched while entering his personal 
identification number (PIN) in a caf by a member of the caf staff or a bystander. Or 
alternatively, by someone watching over him at an ATM at the airport. So, Mr W says these 
werent his transactions and he would like Starling Bank to refund the money. 
Starling Bank investigated these transactions but decided not to uphold his complaint. This is 
because Mr Ws genuine card and PIN were used for the transactions - and it couldnt find 
any reasonable time at which Mr Ws PIN couldve been compromised.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They agreed 
that the evidence showed the genuine card and PIN were used to make the transactions. 
Although Mr W has provided evidence that his card was stolen, that didnt explain how 
someone was able to enter his correct PIN to make the disputed transactions. The 
Investigator considered what Mr W said about his PIN being compromised, but they were not 
persuaded by this evidence. 
Mr W disputed the Investigators initial assessment into this complaint, so it has been passed 
to me for a final decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised a number of points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive 
considered everything he has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact the 
outcome of the case. No discourtesy is intended by this, it just reflects the informal nature of 
our service.
Ive seen the transaction history log from Starling Bank which shows that the six transactions 
in question were made using Mr Ws genuine card and PIN. And Mr W has not disputed this 
 Mr Ws evidence is that his actual card was stolen, and his PIN was compromised. So, the 
main factor for me to consider is whether its likely or not that Mr W consented to these 
transactions.
Mr W says that he thinks his PIN was compromised either while making purchases in a caf 
or while taking out money from an ATM. So, Ill look at each of these scenarios in turn. 
Ive seen a log of the transactions carried out in the caf. These include two declined 
transactions  due to Mr W entering an incorrect PIN - and two successful contactless 
transactions. I dont think Mr Ws PIN was compromised here as the evidence shows that he 
entered the PIN incorrectly twice and so the transactions were not successful. So, even if 
someone had been watching over Mr Ws shoulder at this point, they wouldnt have seen the 
correct PIN being entered in any event. 
Ive also considered what Mr W has said about the possibility someone saw his PIN at the 
ATM at the airport. But Mr W had been at the airport ATM at 12.48pm and didnt have his 
card stolen until after 10.00pm that evening. So, this would suggest someone had been 
following him around for over nine hours after seeing his PIN before stealing his wallet. 
While I accept this is possible, it seems unlikely that someone would follow him for so many 
hours.  
Mr W has provided a receipt for a restaurant bill at 10.16pm on 2 June 2023 to prove that he 
was not at the location where the disputed transactions took place. However, the 
transactions in dispute took place between 11.56pm on 1 June 2023 and 12.29am on 
2 June 2023. Therefore, the receipt that Mr W has provided does not match the time of the 
disputed transaction and does not make a difference to my findings here. 
For all the reasons outlined above, I am not persuaded that Mr Ws PIN was compromised. 
And so, it follows that I think its more likely than not that Mr W consented to the 
transactions.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman