DRN-2505047
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Society of Lloyd's (SoL) unfairly handled her pet insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs Ws pet underwent an operation for cruciate ligament damage. Mrs W made a claim 
under her SoL pet insurance policy to cover the associated costs. SoL paid the claim up to 
what it said was available under the policy limit for cruciate claims  a maximum of £750 per 
policy year. 
Mrs W said she thought the applicable policy limit was £4,000 per year. This was the limit 
when she took the policy out and she wasnt aware of any changes. So she wanted SoL to 
pay her claim in full as the total cost being claimed for fell under this limit. 
SoL said policy changes to cruciate claims took effect in 2016 and that the relevant renewal 
documents sent to Mrs W in 2017 set this out. But Mrs W says SoL didnt do enough to 
highlight what she believes is a significant change. She said that had SoL made it clear 
about the new policy limit, she likely wouldve cancelled the policy and taken cover 
elsewhere. Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws policy provides cover for cruciate claims. But like most policies of this nature, the 
cover available is subject to certain terms, conditions and limitations. Information about this 
and any changes to cover will often be set out in the policy documentation which is usually 
sent out to the policyholder on an annual basis around the time the policy is due for renewal. 
The insurer has a responsibility to provide this information in a way thats clear, fair and not 
misleading. And the policyholder also has certain responsibilities, such as reading this 
information to ensure the cover continues to meet their needs. So Ive kept this in mind when 
considering this case.
Ive seen copies of the renewal packs SoL sent to Mrs W between 2017 and 2020. And in 
the 2017 pack theres a document titled Notice of Change, which is in bold type. And under 
a further heading titled Veterinary Fees it says SoL will pay  up to a maximum of £750 per
condition per period of insurance for cruciate ligament damage claims. So, on the face of it, 
SoL did give notice of this change to Mrs W at the time the change took effect.
But I also need to consider how clear this notification was. Mrs W argues it was unclear 
because the notice of change was included within an automatic renewal pack where the 
cover letter said she didnt need to do anything for cover to continue. She says 
policyholders cant be expected to read every word of a policy document in order to be 
aware of significant changes. And she thinks the new limit shouldve been included in the 
policy schedule so that she couldve made an informed choice about whether or not to 
continue with cover. 
The 2017 policy schedule doesnt include the cruciate claim limit. And the relevant renewal 
cover letter Ive seen doesnt seem to reference the importance or relevance of the 
Notice of Change or to check over the policy documents to ensure the cover still meets the 
required needs.
But the 2019 renewal documents, which were sent to Mrs W before the claim was made, 
clearly include the policy limit of £750 for cruciate claims on the policy schedule. Mrs W 
herself has said this is where shed expect to see the change in order for it to be clear, 
suggesting she at least checks this document at each renewal. And in doing so, I think its 
fair to conclude she shouldve reasonably been aware of the policy limit in place for cruciate 
claims prior to making a claim for this herself.
It follows that in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied SoL did enough to make it clear 
to Mrs W what the applicable policy limit was for cruciate claims prior to her making a claim. 
And as far as Im aware its paid the applicable claims for this up to the maximum limit, which 
is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So I wont be directing it to pay anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman