DRN-2168925
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt accept his claim on his critical 
illness policy. He feels his diagnosis was a critical illness so it should be covered under this 
type of policy.
 
What happened
In 2014 Mr P took out this critical illness policy through his employer. Sadly, in August 2019 
he was diagnosed with a large ameloblastoma.
 
In October 2019 Mr P made a claim to Aviva. But Aviva didnt accept the claim. It said his 
tumour wasnt covered and that his policy met the criteria of a critical illness policy thats set 
out by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said that to 
ensure customers are treated fairly, Aviva can only accept a claim for a critical illness where 
the definition of that illness has been met. He felt Aviva had fairly decided that Mr Ps 
condition was benign and not malignant. So, it didnt meet the definition of cancer in his 
policy. 
Mr P didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that it 
isnt reasonable to expect him to know every critical illness he was covered for under the 
policy. He said that he agrees his tumour was benign, not malignant, and that is why his 
claim was rejected. But he feels Aviva hasnt fairly and consistently considered his claim 
because it has failed to consider how serious his diagnosis is. And because of its severity, 
his diagnosis should be considered a critical illness. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision. 
 
The following definition must be met for a cancer claim to be paid on Mr Ps policy;
Cancer  excluding less advanced cases
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and characterised 
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue.
The term malignant tumour includes:
-Leukaemia
-Sarcoma
-lymphoma (except cutaneous lymphoma 
lymphoma confined to the skin).
Avivas policy will not cover any cancer unless its malignant. So, I need to be satisfied 
whether Mr Ps tumour isnt a cancer covered by this policy. 
Mr P has accepted his tumour isnt malignant and the medical evidence Aviva has provided 
from his consultant supports that. So, Im satisfied Aviva fairly declined Mr Ps claim based 
upon the medical evidence it had at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the points Mr P has made. I do understand the questions he has 
raised about the level of cover this policy provides, his level of medical knowledge when he 
took out the policy and how serious his diagnosis was. But its standard industry practice for 
insurers to define which critical illnesses they are willing to provide cover for and they set the 
premiums for this policy based upon the risks they are willing to insure. I understand not 
every customer will have medical knowledge of every condition they are covered for or 
expect to be diagnosed with when they take out a policy. But that doesnt mean Mr P has 
been treated unfairly because his claim was declined for a condition no one foresaw him 
being diagnosed with. 
 
I note Mr P is unhappy with the way his policy has been written. But Im satisfied this type of 
policy does qualify as a critical illness policy. It covers the necessary core conditions of 
cancer, heart attack and stroke set out by the ABI guidance. This guidance also makes it 
clear that certain types of the three illnesses listed may not be covered or different definitions 
may apply. So, Im satisfied this policy does meet the necessary standard of a critical illness 
policy. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman