DRN-3381587
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his motor insurer Covea Insurance plc in respect of a claim that 
was made against him by another driver which Covea accepted without question. Mr M feels 
it acted unfairly, not least as this has affected his no claims bonus.
What happened
Mr M was contacted by Covea asking for details of his whereabouts on 12 September 2020. 
It had been contacted alleging he had caused damage to another car whilst driving his car. 
The other car had been unattended at the time and the driver of it found an anonymous note 
on the windscreen when they returned.
Mr M told Covea he was home all day  his car parked in a secure area covered by CCTV. 
Covea applied for footage but told Mr M the correct date was 21 September 2020  and the 
location was a visitors car park at a place of interest some miles from Mr Ms home. Mr M 
said he was there that day, but CCTV footage would show he hadnt been in contact with 
another car. Covea asked to inspect Mr Ms car. An engineer found multiple areas of 
damage, no sign of recent repairs and no evidence of paint transfer. Coveas in-house 
engineer saw the report, and photos showing the damage to the other car. Both reports 
included detail of how far the damage was from the ground. He said that given the height of 
damage on both cars they could have collided. So Covea accepted liability on Mr Ms behalf.
Mr M said the age of damage to his car hadnt been taken into account  there was no new 
damage. He presented a report from the garage that had sold him the car. He said it was 
difficult to see how his and the other car could have come together in the car park in 
question, in such a way as to cause damage to the cars, given where that had been 
identified. He wanted to know if CCTV footage had been reviewed, and who the witness had 
been that had reportedly seen this alleged collision. Covea said given its in-house engineers 
conclusion, and that Mr M had been at the location, it didnt need to look at anything else, in 
fact that detail meant it had no choice but to accept liability.
However, Covea later explained to this service that whilst it had chased the other party on 
several occasions regarding costs, none had been presented. So Covea hadnt made any 
payment on the claim. It said it was still attempting to settle it and, in the meantime Mr Ms 
insurance record was marked as having an outstanding claim, with a nil-settlement that had 
affected his no claims discount. Covea also explained that the date of the incident had never 
really changed  rather there had initially been a typing error.
Our Investigator felt Covea had considered the available evidence and that its liability 
decision had been reasonable given the evidence it had. So she wasnt minded to make it 
amend either its liability decision or the claim record in respect of Mr Ms no claims bonus. 
Mr M said the liability decision did not correlate with the evidence. He pointed out that none 
of the damage on his car matched the pattern or spread of damage on the other car. He said 
he felt he was the victim of a scam, which Covea should have protected him from. His 
complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
I felt Covea hadnt acted fairly and reasonably. I issued a provisional decision to explain my 
views and what I think Covea needs to do to put things right. Mr M said he agreed with my 
findings. Covea didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I will preface my findings below by explaining that Covea, as do most insurers, retains the 
right, in its policy, to settle claims in the way it sees fit. That may mean that an outcome is 
reached that the policyholder doesnt agree with. But Covea has experience of claims and is 
the one that bears the risk of costs and the like if matters should proceed to court. And 
Covea, again like most insurers, will want to keep its costs low and avoid the chance of court 
where possible. Thats not unreasonable. But an insurer still needs to act fairly when using 
this right because its policyholder will be affected by a fault claim against them. Here I think 
Covea jumped into accept liability (albeit on a without prejudice basis) without really 
assessing the risk or paying much attention to the evidence at hand. And I think that led to it 
making a flawed  unfair and unreasonable  decision on liability.
The first thing I note from Coveas file is that it didnt really face any pressure from the other 
side. There was the initial contact making the claim, a month later the other insurer provided 
Covea with an image of the note left on its insureds windscreen, and about four months 
after that the other insurer asked Covea for a copy of its engineers report. At no time during 
this period did the other insurer demand payment, and in fact hadnt even stated what costs 
were being sought. Covea opted to accept liability at this time. It told us We then received a 
summons from the [other insurer] which left us with no choice but to settle on a [without 
prejudice] basis. But that simply is not true. So there was no risk of court action being taken 
at the time Covea accepted liability and there was no risk of costs escalating which might 
make settling early a sensible business option.   
There is then the fact that there was very little persuasive evidence of Mr M having caused 
the damage. Mr M was identified as the person at fault by a note left on the other car. The 
note said: we witnessed a [Mr Ms make and model of car] scrape your car at 2.15pm, Reg 
[Mr Ms reg]. The note wasnt signed or dated. I can understand Mr Ms concern that the 
witness was untraceable. There was CCTV available in the area  and whilst Covea had 
initially asked for CCTV footage  that was from the wrong car park because it had initially 
given Mr M the wrong date for the accident. Several months later Covea reviewed the issue 
of CCTV data and commented on its file that it wasnt worth following up as Mr M had 
admitted he was at the carpark. Considering the dates, I think that it is unlikely that, by that 
point, any footage would still have remained. But I think it would have been reasonable, 
when Covea had corrected the date issue with Mr M and he denied damaging the other car, 
for it to have tried to obtain the footage of the two cars in the carpark.
So other than the note accusing Mr M, the only other evidence Covea had were the 
engineers reports. The other insurer provided a report which was no more than photos of 
their damaged car. But the photos did show measurements detailing the height of the 
damage. It was to the top left quadrant of the rear right wheel arch, between 10 and 11 
oclock (to use a clock face as reference). Coveas engineers report showed pictures of 
Mr Ms car in a similar style  measuring the damage found. But it also detailed the type of 
damage and clearly showed there was minor wear and tear damage all around the car. The 
engineer had not seen and did not compare the damage he found on Mr Ms car to the other 
car. But he didnt identify any particularly new looking damage on Mr Ms car either and didnt find any evidence of paint transfer. The photos of the other car didnt show any sign of 
paint transfer either (the two cars being different colours). So there was nothing outstanding 
from these two reports that suggested the two cars had likely come together. Covea then 
had an in-house engineer review the two reports.
The in-house engineer said the height of damage on both cars was the same so they could 
have collided. I note he doesnt say it was most likely they did. And I think his very brief 
conclusion is flawed anyway. There is a very definite scraping of a distinct and relatively 
large area on the other car. The area starts at 50 cm from the ground and the highest 
damage is at 68 cm. There is no similar area of damage on Mr Ms car. There are three 
different areas of damage on Mr Ms car  at three of its four corners. One area at 66 cm, 
one at 56  59 cm and one at 50  59. None of them individually accounts for the span of 
damage on the other car, and they cant all have connected with the other car. In short, 
I dont think it is reasonable to conclude that just because two cars have some damage on 
them that may correlate in terms of height, that the damage was most likely caused by them 
coming together. Thats not to say the reports and views had to show conclusively the cars 
came together  but I think there was room for argument here, but that for some reason 
Covea chose not to bother. And I also think that if it had gathered other evidence, such as 
the CCTV footage, that a strong case could have been presented for Mr M having been 
wrongly accused. After all the key evidence against him was an anonymous note and the 
author of that note wouldnt have been available to give evidence in court.  
There is another key issue here too  the claim from the other party seems to have been 
abandoned. Even with Covea having accepted liability, no costs have been presented from 
the other side. And its now been a year and a half since the claim and a full year since 
Covea has had any contact at all from the other insurer. I think it is fair to say it has been 
abandoned. And I cant see that Covea not having accepted liability, or Covea continuing to 
challenge the other insurer, would likely have changed that. I think it is likely this claim would 
always have been abandoned. So Coveas unreasonably early acceptance of liability has left 
Mr M at a disadvantage here because he now has an outstanding fault claim on his record. It 
is also the case, I think, that if Covea had not accepted liability, and had heard nothing more 
from the other insurer, it would have closed the claim as one of notification only long before 
now. I think that would likely have happened within a few months of it having sent its 
engineers report to the other insurer, which was March 2021.
I note Mr Ms policy renews with Covea in February each year. So if this claim had been 
closed as notification only in the summer of 2021 (which I think is what should reasonably 
have happened), Mr Ms renewal in February 2022 would have been priced differently. That 
is because his premium would have been based on his correct no claims bonus. And there 
wouldnt have been a fault claim taken into consideration. I think Covea, along with 
amending the claim record, should review and amend the premium charged to Mr M for this 
years cover. That should be done on the basis of the claim being one of notification only 
and Mr Ms no claims bonus being allowed. Should contact be received in the future by the 
other insurer  the notification only record might change  but, given I think Covea acted 
unfairly and unreasonably in this instance by accepting Mr M was at fault, I think Covea 
should always maintain Mr Ms no claims bonus.  
I can see Mr M has been frustrated by Coveas actions. I think it should pay him £100 
compensation.
As Mr M has accepted my findings, and Covea hasnt objected to them. Ive no reason to 
change them. My provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision. Putting things right
I require Covea to:
Amend its own and any industry record to show that the claim against Mr M was 
notification only and that his no claims bonus was allowed. Then review and amend 
the premium charged for renewal in February 2022.
Pay Mr M £100 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman