DRN-3371038
The complaint
Mrs H complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) for changes it has made to services at 
her local branch, and for how it dealt with her complaint about these. She wants HSBC to 
operate a counter service at her local branch, and to undo changes it has made to how 
statements show her balance.
What happened
Mrs H has an HSBC account. 
She went into her local branch in Spring 2021 wanting to pay in £20 in coins. When she 
attended the branch, she learned that there was no longer a counter service operated from 
that branch. 
She also used the self-service machine and discovered that changes to the format of the 
print outs from the self-service machine no longer displayed the running balance alongside 
previous days transactions. 
She spoke with an agent who advised her that to use a counter service she would have to 
go to another branch of HSBC which ran a counter service (the nearest of which was around 
5 miles away), or she could pay in her cash at the Post Office (which had an open branch 
very close by). 
Ms H was unhappy with this and complained. Her complaint was logged. 
HSBC sent Ms H its final response in June 2021. This did not detail the complaint but 
indicated that it had been resolved. 
Ms H did not feel that her complaint had been resolved so she contacted us. She felt it was 
ridiculous that she could not pay cash into her bank. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that HSBC had not done anything significantly wrong as it was entitled to make changes 
to the way it operated, including by making changes to make the business more digital. He 
felt that the agent had acted appropriately in explaining to Ms H how she could pay in her 
cash, and so he did not recommend HSBC do anything further. 
Ms H did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She added that she 
felt the agents manner was rude and she did not want to have to use the Post Office to do 
her banking. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Hs frustration in this matter. I can appreciate why she would expect her 
bank to accept coins into her account, and to learn that it did not and that she had to go 
elsewhere would be inconvenient. 
I also understand that she found the running balance useful when this was displayed on her 
print outs and so she finds it inconvenient that this has been removed. 
Finally, I understand that she found the agents manner inappropriate and did not think that 
HSBC had dealt properly with her complaint. 
I can see why Ms H found these things upsetting and frustrating, and why she brought her 
complaint to us. 
I do, however, agree with the view issued by my colleague that HSBC is entitled to make 
changes to the way it operates its business, so long as it does this fairly. We are not able to 
dictate how HSBC displays information, or the services it should run in each branch, but we 
can look at whether the changes it makes have unfair effects on any customers. 
In this case I can see that the agent explained to Ms H alternative ways to pay in her cash, 
and that these included using a Post Office which was very close by, and which was open 
during the branch hours. I understand that Ms H may not wish to use the Post Office, but I 
think it was a reasonable option given by HSBC. 
In respect of the changes to the balance information, I appreciate that this change is not 
helpful to Ms H, but I cannot identify that the change treats her unfairly. 
Finally, Ms H has explained she felt that the agents manner was inappropriate, and her 
complaint was not dealt with as she would wish. I understand that, but complaints handling is 
not a regulated activity which we can look at in isolation, and so I cannot uphold this part of 
her complaint.  
I realise that this will be disappointing to Ms H, but for these reasons I do not uphold her 
complaint and I do not ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further. 
My final decision
As set out above, I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint and do not ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman