DRN-3286185
The complaint
Mr B complains about incorrect information given to him about a Saver Plus policy he held 
with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr B contacted Aviva about the maturity options for his policy as it was due 
to mature in late 2020 and he hadnt yet heard anything. Mr B was told over the phone that 
at maturity he could keep his policy open. Aviva also wrote to Mr B with the available 
options.
In late 2020 Mr B received a maturity pack for his policy, however this arrived after the policy 
had actually matured. Mr B complained to Aviva who upheld the complaint paying Mr B £150 
for the poor service he had received. 
It then came to light that the earlier information Mr B had been given over the phone was 
incorrect. Because Mr B was over the age of 70 a renewal of his policy wasnt allowed, and it 
also wasnt possible to keep it open. Mr B was unhappy with this saying he wouldve 
organised his finances differently if he had known he had to surrender the policy at maturity.  
Mr B brought his complaint to our service where one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. They thought that Aviva did make a mistake with the information given over the 
phone, but that they didnt have to do anything to put things right as Mr B was provided with 
the correct information in writing. Mr B remained unhappy, so the complaint has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Ive no doubt that Mr B was given incorrect information when he spoke to Aviva. He says he 
was told it was possible to keep the policy open after maturity and so he thought he could 
choose the time of encashment. However this wasnt possible as the policy didnt allow for 
any kind of renewal when the policyholder is aged over 70 years, and it also couldnt be kept 
open. So at maturity the policy was cashed in and Mr B has now received the funds as this is 
how the product worked. 
Ive thought about what Mr B might have done differently if he had been given the correct 
information over the phone. Also bearing in mind that the correct information had been 
provided in writing, which also wouldve been included in the product literature when the 
policy was taken out. Due to the passage of time I havent seen the initial product literature, 
however I think it most likely they wouldve explained the available maturity options. 
Mr B said that he remained invested mainly because he thought he didnt need to take the 
proceeds of the policy when it matured in October 2021. But Ive not seen any persuasive 
evidence about what Mr B wouldve done differently. Mr B has said he wouldve surrendered 
the policy at least a year before it matured as he didnt want to pay in if there was going to 
be little growth. But Ive not seen any evidence of an actual financial strategy from the time.
Thats not to say that Mr B might not have had a strategy planned in his thoughts, its quite 
possible he did. But without seeing any evidence from the time about what he planned to do 
I cant determine any possible loss. Also we have to be careful about applying hindsight 
about any possible actions as this can be affected by what we know now about financial 
performance, rather than any actions that might have been taken at the time. Because of this 
I couldnt fairly establish any possible loss, and nor say that any loss was incurred.
Aviva paid Mr B £150 for the delays in sending out the maturity pack, which I think is a fair 
and reasonable amount for what happened. Aviva also paid the full value of the policy.
Having carefully considered everything that happened I think Aviva did make a mistake, 
however I dont think they need to pay any redress. Thats not to say that Mr B wasnt 
affected by what happened as I think he was; however the policy paid out as it should have, 
and Im not persuaded there was any calculatable financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman