DRN-3354313
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled 
her home emergency claim.
What happened
On 31 March 2021, Mrs C noticed all the electrical switches in her house had 
stopped working. The only exception to this was her lights. So, she asked British Gas 
to send an engineer to help solve the problem.
The engineer attended on the same day and attempted a temporary repair. However, he 
also explained the only way to stop the problem would be to replace the consumer unit. 
He also provided her with a verbal quote totalling £852 and said she would receive written 
confirmation of it within the next hour. After the engineer left, Mrs C realised the 
engineers attempt at a temporary repair had been unsuccessful. As she was concerned 
about the food in her freezer, a neighbour kindly agreed to keep it powered via an 
extension lead. But she otherwise, remained without power.
On 1 April 2021, Mrs C requested a further emergency appointment. British Gas then 
agreed to send out a different engineer. This engineer called Mrs C before he arrived at 
her property. However, when she explained what had happened the day before, he said 
he would call her back. The engineer then cancelled the job as he realised, the visit 
wouldnt be productive. Unfortunately, he didnt inform Mrs C of this decision.
On 2 April 2021, Mrs C requested a third engineers visit. On this occasion the engineer 
did attend her property. However, he also said he couldnt do anything to help as the 
consumer unit needed to be replaced. He therefore told Mrs C to wait for the appropriate 
team at British Gas to contact her.
On 4 April 2021, Mrs C received an email from British Gas which confirmed the details of the 
£852 quote. However, by this time shed already arranged for the work to be completed by a 
family friend. In total, Mrs C has said she went without power for four days.
On 5 April 2021, Mrs C sent British Gas a complaint letter. She said theyd abandoned 
her during her time of need. So, they needed to put things right. She also couldnt 
understand why the engineer who visited her on 2 April 2021, simply repeated what 
shed been told on 31 March 2021.
In response to the complaint, British Gas paid Mrs C £100 compensation. They also 
apologised for the poor customer service shed received. Mrs C initially accepted this 
offer, but later decided to escalate the matter to our service.         
An investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She agreed with Mrs 
C that shed received poor customer service, but she didnt think the compensation 
should be increased.
She also concluded that British Gas had acted fairly by declining the claim. As Mrs C had 
taken out a repair only policy and the consumer unit needed to be replaced. Lastly, she 
said our service couldnt comment on the delay in receiving the written quote for the 
private works as that arrangement didnt relate to her insurance policy.
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary she said the work should have 
been covered under the terms of her policy, as the policy wording says replacement parts 
are included. None of the engineers told her the work wasnt covered, and she didnt 
receive the written quote until 4 April 2021. She therefore said British Gas should pay her 
more compensation to reflect the fact they abandoned her. As our investigators opinion 
remained the same, the case was passed to me to decide.
Provisional decision 
On 28 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said I couldnt comment on British 
Gas delay in providing a private quote as that issue didnt relate to a regulated activity.
I also said: 
Claims decision 
Before reaching this decision, I asked British Gas to clarify the reasons they declined Mrs 
Cs claim. In response, they said an exclusion applied as the repair work was connected to a 
design fault. Due to the passage of time, their engineers couldnt recall the details of the 
claim. However, the completed engineers log evidenced their position. They also said Mrs C 
accepted the verbal quote. So, she should reasonably have been aware, she wasnt covered 
under the terms of the policy.
Ive therefore reviewed the engineers log from 31 March 2021. It says:
CODE4 New cons unit req, rcd failure, design fault on install is 
chargeable job, quote accepted.
The policy wording also includes the following general exclusion:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
Were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed
Existed when you first took out the product
So, while I appreciate the engineers notes are brief, I dont think British Gas acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by declining the claim. As they are entitled to rely on the 
expertise of their engineers and design faults are excluded under the terms of the policy.
Ive also carefully considered Mrs Cs comment that she wasnt informed about the claim 
decline during any of the appointments. However, as she accepted the verbal quote for 
the cost of the works on 31 March 2021, I dont think this is likely to have been the case. I 
would also reasonably have expected her to have questioned the need for this quote, if 
she felt the engineers conclusions were incorrect or the work should be covered.
Customer service
Following the appointment on 31 March 2021, I would reasonably have expected British 
Gas to have declined Mrs Cs requests for further emergency appointments. As based on 
the engineers log, they should have seen her claim wasnt covered and simply explained 
why this type of appointment wouldnt help.Its also unfortunate the second engineer didnt update Mrs C when he realised the 
scheduling error. If theyd done so, Mrs C wouldnt have been left waiting for his visit. Its 
also possible Mrs C could have arranged for the work to have been completed slightly 
earlier than she did. As while I do think Mrs C should reasonably have known the work 
wasnt covered following the first appointment, additional clarification may have helped. 
Its also unlikely the final appointment on 2 April 2021 would have taken place.
I dont dispute that going without power for four days would have been very difficult for
Mrs C, but as the required work wasnt covered under the terms of the policy, Im 
satisfied it wouldnt be fair to hold British Gas responsible for this.
British Gas caused Mrs C some confusion. They also wasted her time and provided 
poor customer service. However, Im satisfied the £100 compensation they've already 
paid her fairly reflects this. Mrs C feels strongly that this amount should be increased 
but based on the timescales involved and the overall impact, I see no reasonable 
grounds for doing so.
Both sides accepted my provisional decision and said they didnt wish to provide any 
additional evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides accepted what I said in my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions Ive already reached in this case. I remain satisfied British Gas acted fairly 
and reasonably by declining the claim. I also think their £100 compensation payment was 
fair. So, I dont direct British Gas to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman