DRN-3477010
The complaint
Mr R complains about advice he received from Premier Financial Advice Limited (PFA) in 
2017. He says he was advised to transfer the benefits in his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) to a personal pension. In general Mr R questions the suitability of the advice he 
received and some of the details that were recorded by PFA at the time. He believes he 
may have been disadvantaged as a result. PFA is an appointed representative of The On-
Line Partnership Limited  trading as In Partnership (On-line) and so On-line takes 
responsibility for its actions and has addressed Mr Rs complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2022. In that decision I set out why I believed the 
complaint should be upheld. I have included the content of the provisional decision below 
and the provisional decision should be read in conjunction with, and forms part of, this final 
decision. 
Provisional decision of 1 March 2022:
Mr R says his employer recommended that he review his pension. As I understand it, Mr R was 
referred to PFA by another financial adviser who had undertaking some initial fact finding about his 
situation. I will call that financial adviser Business A. This was because PFA had the necessary 
expertise to advise as to a potential OPS transfer. Mr R was reviewing his pension benefits and 
wanted advice in that regard.
Mr R had a defined benefit (final salary) pension with his employer. It would appear that these 
were his only pension benefits  brought about by 37 years pensionable service.
After receiving advice from PFS Mr R transferred the value of his OPS (about £1.4M) to a 
personal pension plan. As I understand it, Mr R entered into drawdown in 2019 and has taken 
some withdrawals from his plan.
On-Line responded to Mr Rs complaint. It did not uphold it. In a letter dated 26 February 2020 
it said, in summary:
If there were any inaccuracies in the reports prepared for Mr R then it was made 
clear at the time that he should inform PFA.
The Member Discharge Form that Mr R signed at the time set out that Mr R agreed 
that he would have no further rights in the OPS scheme. PFS acted on the basis that 
he had left the scheme.
There was evidence that, over time, Mr Rs annual salary had been confirmed and 
accepted as about £63,000 a year.
Conducting a comparison using anything other than a retirement age of 65 would not 
have resulted in a like-for-like comparison.
It was not specifically indicated that Mr R wished to retire at 60. A range was 
indicated between 60 and 65.
The OPS normal retirement age was 65. It was possible to take (reduced) benefits 
from 55 but this was at the discretion of the scheme trustees.
The stochastic modeling using a figure of £9,000 a year was illustrative and was not 
material to the suitability of the advice.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. The 
investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr R was advised to give up 
valuable secure defined pension benefits. But the nature and value of these benefits was not made 
clear to Mr R at the time and he was not given a balanced comparison. He was not persuaded that 
there were persuasive reasons why Mr R should have been advised to give up these benefits at the 
time.
On-line did not accept the investigators assessment. In summary it:
Referred to Mr R indicating to its adviser that he might need his pension funds at age 
55 to help repay his mortgage.
Said Mr R had made two withdrawals from his pension since the advice was given. 
This evidenced Mr Rs need to access his pension funds.
Questioned the investigators findings as to the critical yield required to match the 
benefits being given up. And said that the critical yield was only one factor  flexibility 
being a material factor in the context of this advice.
The suitability report provided to Mr R was very detailed and included warnings or 
explanation that in transferring his future benefits would not be guaranteed.
Mr Rs position now as to repaying his mortgage is not what is set out in the financial 
planning documents. In those documents it is recorded that he may require access to 
his pension tax free cash to repay his mortgage. There was no comment about selling 
one of his properties. It requested that any comments Mr R has made now about how 
he wishes to repay his mortgage should be set aside.
Mr R expressed various reasons why he wanted to transfer and he would have 
proceeded to transfer whether or not it had recommended he transfer.
Based on the information it was given at the time its advice to Mr R to transfer was in 
his best interests. The complaint should be rejected. If the investigator was not 
persuaded to change his assessment then the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman.
PFA did however make an offer in settlement of the complaint. Mr R rejected that offer.
Mr Rs submissions
Mr R has questioned some of the detail that was recorded about his financial circumstances at the 
time the advice was given. I have read all his submissions but I will not list every issue. The main 
issues would seem to be:
The assumption that he had already made his decision to transfer his benefits when 
he met with PFS.
That his retirement age was 60, not 65.
That his income had been inflated
That he would have tax free benefits available from his OPS at 55.
That he had already left his OPS.
That he was not advised that a possible option was to retain in his OPS.
Mr R says he had not made the decision to transfer when he met with PFS. The reason he met with 
PFS was to obtain advice as to what steps to take with his pension. He says he had not left his 
employer or the pension scheme and was still paying into it when he met with PFS. He also says 
that he would have had access to his OPS pension benefits from 55.
I note that Mr R says that he received PFSs report (which contained the details in dispute) in June 2017. He says he noticed some errors but, he was not aware of the importance, after the 
assurance I had been given by PFS and the adviser that referred him to PFS (121 Finance). He 
says he did raise this with both entities. He says he did not receive satisfactory explanations but did 
not realise the importance of the errors.
Mr R has provided an email he sent to the adviser that referred him to PFS, which is dated 3 
January 2018. In this email one of the points raised was:
Retirement Suitability Report  Errors
a.Page 4 - Annual Income £65,156 (this figure is also on the Royal London Report?)
b.Page 5 - Worked for (OPS) from 2/10/1989 
c.Page 5 - Left (OPS) on 08/12/2016
d.      Page 13 - Stochastic Projections - using a figure of £9000 per annum - 85% chance of       
reaching this goal
e. The report refers to retiring at 65 - the Royal London Data states age of 75
Given the information that was recorded at the time and the recommendations set out 
above, we asked some further questions of Mr R.
We asked Mr R about his selected retirement date and whether this was the normal 
retirement date of his OPS. Mr R said:
The age of 60 was ideally my retirement date and was detailed during the pension transfer 
process. I believe there is/was not a working age restriction on employees in (the OPS) or the 
(OPS) pension scheme. The (OPS) retirement dates, 60 or 65 are normal retirement dates and are 
included in my (OPS) pension booklet to illustrate the options to retire at 60 to 65 or past 65. Also 
(OPS) employees at the age of 55 have an option to retire. My (OPS) pension details including the 
(OPS) pension booklets were passed to and copied by the financial advisors at the time.
Mr R also confirmed that he has been informed that he could have started drawing his 
benefits at age 55 from the OPS.
Mr R was asked about his membership of the OPS after he transferred. He said:
The membership of the (OPS) ceased when I transferred out and I did not join another pension 
scheme. The advisors stated the only benefit of joining a pension scheme would give me access 
to Life Insurance Cover for my family and said the decision was up to me. 121 Finance has also 
stated to me the importance of making regular contributions into a pension to ensure that I have 
the funds in place to provide me with sufficient income in retirement. I was losing confidence in 
the advisors and I then decided to take out the (OPS) pension to ensure I had sufficient Life 
Insurance Cover for my family. So Im still confused and not entirely sure if this is the right 
decision?
Mr R was asked about the 55% tax charge on lump sum withdrawals over the Lifetime 
Allowance. He said:
I am aware of tax rates at work (paye) but did not understand tax charges in pension situations. 
During the initial discussions and engagement I recall being informed that tax issues were 
important and would be addressed by the advisors as part of the assessment work. Therefore I 
was dependent on the advisors fully exploring the details. I do not recall being supplied any full 
explanation of pension tax charges, the future impacts and my options and to add, I am still not 
fully aware of the details of 55% tax on pension funds.
Mr R was asked how he intended to repay his mortgage in future. Mr R said:
It has always been my intention to repay my mortgage by selling my property leading up to 
retirement and this information was passed to the advisors. The properties belong jointly to me and 
my wife and when we took out the mortgage to purchase the property we had a meeting with a 
mortgage advisor and it was agreed to repay the mortgage upon retirement. This was and still is 
our plan and our mortgage is totally separate from any pension arrangements we have. The 
advisors were informed of my mortgage, property and the future plan and that it had been in place 
for approximately 5 years before (OPS) recommended I seek professional advice about my 
pension. The data I supplied the advisors included my mortgage details and became a point of focus for the advisors. The only other option you may be referring to was my son buying my 
property from me to repay my mortgage, this option was not realistic and Im not sure if this was 
discussed with the advisors?
As per previous correspondence and as requested by the advisors, I did pass over all my pension 
and financial details and have been completely honest and open. This data was mainly my (OPS) 
pension, my property and my mortgage, I have no other information of relevance. I had previously 
seen a mortgage advisor and do not recall actively planning to discuss my mortgage in any great 
detail. I assumed the advice purchased was principally for my pension and it now appears the 
advisors have made this an issue to focus on to try to justify and support the pensions advice they 
provided. Therefore a lot of the significance surrounding my mortgage has been inflated by the 
advisors and this can be highlighted by (PFS adviser), in his email dated 08th January 2020 stating 
, (Mr R) was initially VERY eager to transfer his plan and couldnt wait to come and see me 
because of the size of his pension and the fact he could off his mortgage However I did not meet 
or even speak to (PFS adviser) until the meeting to discuss the pensions advice which was 
arranged by 121 Finance. Clearly I did not make that statement and it has been fabricated, which 
can be evidenced by the first meeting with 121 Finance in May 2017. Whilst I do not directly recall 
discussing how I would repay my mortgage with the advisors, I do agree it was part of the data 
supplied and raised by the advisors during the subsequent meetings and recorded as a potential 
option by the advisors. However, during the meetings they advised me not to pay off my mortgage 
because the interest rate was low & the money would earn more if I moved it and left it in the Royal 
London Fund.
Mr R was asked about the matters that were noted as important on the documents completed at 
the time the advice was given. In the main they were that he would be in full control of the 
pension, the flexibility as to when and how to take benefits (in comparison to the OPS), the value 
of death benefits, the fact that he could pass the pension value to dependants and that transfer 
values were high and there would be a future 10% reduction in transfer values if he did not 
transfer now. Mr R said:
My objectives are listed in the initial 121 Finance review documents and I was definitely not 
anxious or in any rush to transfer my pension. I was informed I had a large pension fund and the 
transfer value was high and I was advised to seek professional pensions advice for my future 
options. I had very little knowledge, skills or experience in pensions and therefore I was interested 
in reviewing my current (OPS) and wanted to understand about the different options available and 
to obtain the right advice.
The things listed were items that were discussed and needed to be explained as part of the bigger 
picture and now appear to be exaggerated out of context and used to justify the advisors pensions 
advice. With regards to this list above, I do not consider these to be important matters when 
factored into the overall transfer of my pension and I have made comments on each of the subjects. 
In full control of the pension the flexibility as to when and how to take benefits (in comparison to the 
(OPS)): This was not urgent or important at the time I was 53 and not planning to access my funds 
for 7 years. Value of death benefits: My objective was to review the pros, cons and future options 
of inheritance for my dependents, it would not have been an important issue because I did have 
Life Cover, death benefits as part of my (OPS) and the pension would have transferred to my wife.
Transfer values high with a future 10% reduction in values: My objective was to review my pension 
situation and obtain advice and understand what this means to me. This item did trigger the initial 
engagement and the requirement for me to seek independent financial advice, however the transfer 
value is part of a bigger picture and should have been fully explained and compared against the 
reasons not to transfer out my pension. Following my own research and on reflection the transfer 
value was not of high importance as the advisors declared, they should have confirmed remaining 
in my pension scheme was the most suitable option for me. To add to this, I do not recall using the 
term All-time high or my pension scheme using a statement with All-time high. I have now been 
informed this is an incorrect statement and was made up by the advisor and then slotted into the 
RSR report to maybe indicate an urgent one-off opportunity. As you are aware the value of 
pensions goes up and down by a calculation regularly used for the funds by finance. This was not 
explained to me at the time and I believe is another example of the advisor's appetite to inflate the 
significance, encourage and convince me to transfer out my (OPS) .Mr R was asked about the recorded comment that he wished to transfer to take advantage of the 
all time high transfer value. Mr R said:
At the time I was informed by my pensions department that they were making changes that may 
mean the value of my pension could be reduced and that I should get expert pensions advice. As 
such I required the services of professional, expert advice from qualified advisors and as you are 
aware I was not a financial expert and had little experience in these matters. I completed the due 
diligence and I honestly believed I had engaged the professional services of pension experts and 
that they were employed and working for me, in my best interests. The advisors assured me they 
were governed and enforced by financial laws and regulated by the FSA. They explained the 
process and stated it will ensure a comprehensive tailored-made report, with options and 
guidance, designed to meet my specific objectives. It will take into account my current 
circumstances, attitude to risk, my level of knowledge and experience.
My expectation was they would execute their professional and legally binding roles in 
compliance with the rules and regulations and with the attention to detail that I required and 
requested, bearing in mind the fees that were charged for this work. At this point the advisors 
gave me confidence by the skills, qualifications, competence and financial registrations that 
they hold and were working in my best interest and will provide the best advice, unfortunately 
this did not happen and I believe I was misled and not informed about the benefits I have now 
lost. The above statement You have made the decision to transfer your (OPS) benefits away to 
an alternative provider indicates the (OPS) benefits are transferring to the Royal London and 
not being given up. I feel this is another indication of the advisor's eagerness for me to transfer 
my pension. Another example of this is the advisors stating the transfer value was at a All-
Time High which is incorrect and was not fully explained and did form part of the advice I 
received.
It was not apparent to me during the process that the advisors were not working in my best 
interest, but quite the opposite. In hindsight, they emphasised on the positives and hid the 
negatives to convince me that transferring my pension was in my best interests. Following the 
pensions advice from 121 Finance I made the decision to transfer my pension to the Royal 
London Fund, unfortunately after the transfer I have realised that I have been misled and mis-
sold pensions advice. At the time I did have trust in the advisors and my decision was made on 
that pension advice I was given. I do now regret taking the advice to transfer my pension and I 
would not have done so if there was any doubts raised, or conflicting evidence or advice given to 
me to remain in the (OPS).
Mr R was asked if he received any explanation of the errors he says he identified in PFSs 
recommendation report. Mr R said:
My email to 121 Finance on 3rd January 2018 was in advance of the first face to face review with 
121 Finance and I listed details of some points we had discussed during the transfer process and 
afterwards. 121 Finance responded to my email on the 4th January and stated, point 8, refers to 
the (PFS) report and that they will be able to help answer any concerns. At the face to face meeting 
we discussed the points raised in my email, the 121 Finance Advisor did not indicate there was 
anything to be alarmed or worried about and stated point 8 refers to part of the work by (PFS) 
completed and had been checked.
I do not recall any specific explanations but do recall talking around parts of point 8 and mainly 
focusing on the other points. I did again raise my concerns about these matters and the growing 
list of errors in the pensions advice documents and the Capital Fusion report. This report was 
referenced in the RSR report but was never issued without any explanation and I am suspicious 
that this report may have contained conflicting guidance. 121 Finance stated there were not any 
issues with the pension advice and documentation and they may have stated they would look into 
it further.
It was my assumption that 121 Finance were working for me, being paid by me and were acting in 
my best interests. Therefore it was my expectation that the role and responsibilities of the advisors 
would have been to also have checked the documentation, details and compliance, which appears 
not to have happened. At this point in time I did not fully understand the magnitude of this situation, the errors and incorrect pensions advice I was given. However I was becoming more and more 
suspicious of the advisors and that they were not acting in my best interests. None of the above 
were recorded in the follow up letter dated 5th January from 121 Finance. It did state I was not 
interested in any lump sums and my risk profile had changed from moderate to dynamic. During the 
discussions in this period, 121 Finance stated Brexit, Trump and North Korea were impacting 
pensions and then advised me to put my pension into a higher risk fund of which I declined. I finally 
lost confidence in the advisors and what they were doing for me. I found out the Royal London 
Experts were managing my fund and could not quantify what 121 Finance were actually doing for 
me. After discussions with the Royal London and seeking local advice I decided to cease the 
services of 121 Finance in August 2018. Following this I started carrying out my own research in 
the subject and it became very clear 121 Finance and Premier did not provide correct pensions 
advice in my best interests and did not comply with FCAs policies and procedures. I believed I had 
been doped by these professional advisors. I came to realise the gravity of my situation, 
understanding more and I had been mis-sold pensions advice. This was extremely upsetting, 
stressful, unnecessary and I decided to make an official complaint to Premier.
We also asked Mr R what his view would have been at the time if it had been made clear to him 
that his pension benefits were valued differently for the purposes of the Lifetime Allowance (Final 
Salary as compared to Money Purchase).
I was not informed about this and I have looked again and can find no records of this in my 
documentation. I have contributed to my final salary pension scheme over a 40 year career with 
(OPS) with the intention of a safe, stable pension in retirement. Therefore if I would have been told 
these details I would not have taken the advice to transfer and would have remained in my final 
salary pension scheme. I procured the services of the financial advisors to advise me on the correct 
course of action that was suited to my personal circumstances and I acted on the information given 
by the financial advisor.
And we asked Mr R if he appreciated the difference in flexibility between the Final Salary as 
compared to Money Purchase in terms of cash withdrawal and passing on the pension fund to 
beneficiaries. He was asked that if he was given the option of reinstating those Final Salary 
benefits and losing the flexibility of the current pension, what step he would take.
Mr R said:
My choice would be to reinstate my final salary pension because access to lump sums were not 
important to me, I am not a risk taker and required a steady pension in retirement, as recorded at 
the time by the advisors. I live and plan to live a modest life and did not seek to increase any risks 
in my retirement. My wife and I were 53 years old and both in good health. Hopefully we have 
many years in front of us and I intend to live a long and steady retirement and in the very rare 
event of both of us dying my beneficiaries will be entitled to my property. Therefore I can state 
when we both pass away, what may or may not be left in my pension, is not in any way a factor for 
me to consider for advice in respect of transferring my pension and has been inflated by the 
advisors.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Documentation
I have seen a number of documents setting out the position when the advice was given. I will 
discuss the detail contained in the material documents.
Mr Rs OPS provided a letter dated 21 December 2016 which set out his current pension benefits 
and the sum that would be transferred to another pension provider should he decide to transfer. 
The letter recorded that his deferred pension at that time was about £38,000 a year. The spouses 
pension payable was about £23,000 a year.
Dependent children would also be provided with an (unspecified) allowance to age 18 or 21 if in 
education. The trustees would have discretion to pay benefits for longer than this if they saw fit.Mr Rs OPS issued a further letter on 1 March 2017. This set out that from 23 February 2017 
transfer values would be amended. The effect would be, approximately, a 10% reduction in transfer 
values. It was set out that as Mr R had already obtained a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) 
in the last 3 months, the OPS was putting in place transitional arrangements  in effect honouring 
the transfer value Mr R had received until 23 May 2017.
Mr R has supplied a letter dated 5 January 2017 from the adviser that referred him to PFS. This 
set out some of his financial circumstances  one which was that his income was about
£63,000 a year. Mr R disputes that. The letter also records that his preferred retirement age 
is 60. A letter from the same adviser of 7 June 2018 reiterates that retirement age.
A Fact Find was completed which recorded Mr Rs circumstances, including finances. This is 
undated but it is likely this was completed before Mr R was provided with advice, given its content. 
Mr R says that he completed it for the financial adviser who referred him later to PFS.
It was recorded that Mr R had been working for his employer for 37 years and was a member of its 
OPS. Its was set out that he had an interest only mortgage of £250,000, a holiday home worth 
£250,000 and savings of £10,000. With respect to his pension it was recorded that he had 37 years 
pensionable service  with a current value (which I assume to be a CETV) of about £1.4M.
In the Notes section of the Fact Find:
(Mr R) wants to review his pension + transfer his fund to a personal pension. He wants to take 
advantage of high transfer value, higher death benefits, succession planning + higher tax free 
cash + access to the tax free cash earlier than 65. (Mr R) said he may pay off his mortgage at 
age 55.
It was then set out that he had Balanced attitude to risk.
It was recorded that Mr R didnt have any existing life assurance, critical illness cover or 
emergency funds.
There is also a Supplemental Fact Find for Mr R. This records the answers to several 
questions. In particular I have noted:
At what age do you realistically expect to retire? 65-60
Do you wish to take control and responsibility for your pension funds? Yes
Do you have serious concerns regarding the financial stability of your ex-employer? 
No
Do you want to move your existing benefits from under the control of your ex- 
employer? Yes
Do you mind if your pension benefits remain with your former company pension 
scheme? Yes
Do you wish to maximise any tax free cash entitlement? Yes
Do you wish your dependants receive a significant sum upon your death? Yes
Do you wish your dependants receive an income from your pension on your death? 
No
Would you like the flexibility at retirement to control the way benefits are paid and 
retain the flexibility to decide depending upon circumstances at the time? Yes
Would you wish to maximise the benefits payable to you during your lifetime as you 
do not think you will be married when you retire? No
This pension is a major proportion of my pension funding which should be protected as 
far as is reasonably possible. Yes
I would like to risk my benefits in the hope of good returns and the prospect of 
retiring early? Yes
I anticipate retiring early and am happy to accept a lower pension. YesI do not think that I will be able to afford to retire early but would like the option of 
flexibility in case my circumstances change in the future. Yes
I do not consider that I will ever be able to afford to retire early if my benefits are 
reduced.
Mr R signed this form on 12 May 2017 to indicate that:
I acknowledge that the above information provides an accurate picture of my feelings 
towards my existing pension benefits.
A Pension Transfer Analysis dated 11 May 2017 was completed for Mr R. This calculated the 
growth rate required to match the benefits given up if Mr R transferred, using assumptions set 
out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The critical yield to match Mr Rs OPS benefits was 4%, or, on a joint life basis, 5.4% (a year). 
This was based on a retirement age of 65.
The report records the OPS scheme retirement age as 65 and the earliest retirement age 
allowed as 55. It records Mr Rs Final Pensionable Earnings as about £63,000.
There is also an OPS Discharge form which records a date of leaving of 8 December 2016. This 
was signed by Mr R on 12 May 2017.
PFA prepared a Retirement Suitability Report (often called a suitability letter) dated 12 May 2017. 
This set out Mr Rs circumstances, objectives and its recommendations. I have included some of 
the content which I believe is relevant to Mr Rs complaint.
In the Introduction section:
My role is to provide  the specialist  pension  advice  you require  for these  pension  scheme  benefits  only.
This report is tailored to meet your specific objectives. We have taken in to account your current personal  
and financial  circumstances  Including  your,  attitude  to risk, tolerance  for loss and level of knowledge and 
experience of investments in to account. This is an important document, and as such you need to fully 
understand itscontents. If you requireanadditional explanation onany points orif youdonotconsider 
thecontentstobeaccurate youmust askforthesetoberevisited andexplained to your complete 
satisfaction.
Notable details included that Mr R had three dependent sons at the time and a selected 
retirement age of 65.
It was also recorded that Mr R had an interest only mortgage of £250,000 with 10 years 
remaining. He had a house worth £850,000, a holiday home worth £250,000 and savings of
£10,000.
Then Mr Rs Objectives & Priorities were set out. The adviser commented:
You asked me to look at your pension plan with (employer) who you currently work for; your period 
of service has been from 02/10/1989 until the present time. You joined the (OPS) on 02/10/1989. 
You want to find out the benefits of your (OPS) and then decide what to do with these plan 
benefits.
Although you continue to work for your (employer) you have made the decision to transfer your 
(OPS) benefits away to an alternative provider (Royal London) as you are aware that the current 
fund value within the (OPS) is at an all time high and you want to transfer this fund value now to 
an alternative provider to take advantage of this high fund value.
You want to take control of these pension benefits and you also want the higher tax free cash that 
would be available upon transfer and also the superior death benefits and pension succession 
planning than can be obtained by transferring to an alternative pension provider.
You have said that you may also like to access the tax free cash from these scheme benefits at your age 55 in order to pay off your outstanding £250,000 interest only mortgage loan.
All these options are not available within your existing (OPS).
Also, another reason why you want to transfer these pension benefits away from your 
employer is because they stated that after 23 May 2017 all plan transfer values will be 
reduced by 10%.
Later in the report:
Retirement  Planning
You would like me to review and advise you on your existing (OPS) the details of 
which are as detailed below under 'Your Current Pension Benefits'.
Mr Rs current pension benefits are set out:
You have worked for (OPS) from 02/10/1989 until the present time and they have a company pension 
scheme of which you were a member; your pension was based on your final salary. You left the 
(OPS) on 08/12/2016 and you are entitled to a deferred pension, payable from the Scheme's Normal 
Retirement Age (NRA) at your age 65. The pension due to you at your date of leaving the scheme 
was £37,951.49 per annum and I estimate that the full pension payable from your age 65, the 
schemes normal retirement age, will be £52,773 per annum.
It was then set out that most of Mr Rs pension benefits would be revalued at RPI before and after 
retirement.
It was then set out:
Tax  Free  Cash
(OPS) has confirmed that you are entitled to a tax free cash lump sum at the scheme's normal 
retirement age of 65 and I estimate this to be £243,567.
Benefits  on death  before  retirement
If you die before you retire a spouses pension is payable.
Your  wife Tracey  would  receive  a pension  of 2/3rds  of your deferred  pension,  before  any tax 
free cash  had been  taken,  at the date of your death.  The excess  pension  on death  before  
retirement  escalates  in payment  each  year in line with RPI up to a maximum  of 5% per 
annum.
The Transfer  Analysis  Report  includes  a comparison  of the value  of your death  benefits  in the 
Scheme  with the value  of the death  benefits  if you were  to transfer.  This comparison  is 
based  on the 'day 1' position.  That  is, it is based  on the value  of benefits  if you were  to die 
immediately  after  transferring.
The 'day 1' death  benefit  if you were  to transfer  is £1,380,913.68p  and if left in the scheme  it 
is a spouses'  pension  of 2/3rds  of your pension  which  would  be £22,971.25p  revalued  from 
date of leaving  until date of death,  as above.
Benefits  on death  after  retirement
If you die after you retire  (OPS) will pay a spouses  pension  of 2/3rds  of your pension  at the 
date of your death  is payable,  which  would  be £22,971.25p  revalued  from date of leaving  
until date of death,  as above.
Your  pension  is guaranteed  to pay out for 5 years.  That is, if you should  die three  years  
after retirement,  two more  years'  pension  instalments  would  be paid to your spouse.  A 
spouse's  pension  would  then commence  at the end of the guarantee  period.
Death  benefits
We discussed  the benefits  of completing  a nomination  of beneficiary's  form,  which  gives  
you the choice  of nominating  a beneficiary  to receive  any lump  sum death  benefit.  By doing  so, the amount  payable  will normally  fall outside  your estate,  and will not be part of 
the accumulation  for Inheritance  Tax. You have  chosen  your wife and 3 children  to 
receive  any death  benefits  payable.
And:
Investment  risk
The Scheme  bears  the cost of providing  your benefits  - even  if the cost of providing  those  
benefits  increases.  For example,  if life expectancy  continues  to increase,  so too will the cost 
of paying  you a pension  for life. Ultimately,  it is the responsibility  of your employer  to ensure  
the Scheme  maintains  sufficient  assets  to be able to do this. In effect,  your employer  
insures  (or 'underwrites')  your pension  benefits.
This means  that for as long as your employer  remains  solvent,  they must  pay contributions  
in accordance  with independent  actuarial  guidance.  If investment  returns  are lower  than 
anticipated,  or the cost of liabilities  should  rise for any reason,  this is likely  to mean  that 
higher  contributions  must  be paid.  So the investment  risk of providing  your Scheme  benefits  
is borne  entirely  by your employer.
With respect to risk:
Following  our detailed  discussions  surrounding  investment  risk and the subsequent  completion  of the 
Risk Profiler provided, I have confirmed that having regard to the output of the risk profile  
questionnaire  in conjunction  with your knowledge  and experience  that your attitude  to risk in relating to 
this investment came out as Moderately Adventurous/ ATR 4.
However, after further discussion with you it was decided to reduce this to Balanced / ATR 3 as you said 
you feel more comfortable with this lower risk profile due to your current age and potential term until 
your retirement.
This ATR is based on risk profiles 1 to 5, with 1 being the lowest risk (cautious) and 5 being the highest 
risk (Adventurous).
We discussed  your past experience  of investing  and you told me that you have  had some  limited  experience in 
the past with your existing (OPS) scheme benefits.
We also discussed your capacity and tolerance to risk. You felt that you had both the capacity and 
tolerance to invest in this area as you felt that you had enough time ahead of you to cope with market 
fluctuations that may occur due to normal markets conditions.
And
We discussed the level of loss that you could accept on your new investments. You have confirmed 
that your capacity for loss (the amount you can afford to lose in one year) and your tolerance for loss (the 
amount you are willing to accept losing in one year) is 15%. This means that, for example, based on an 
investment of £101,000, you are willing and able accept a loss of
£15,150 ina one-year period. We discussed the effect that the loss of capital within your investment 
would have in relation to your standard of living and any future objectives.
It was also set out in the report:
Knowledge  and Experience
Upon  reviewing  the  type  of  investments  that  you  currently  hold  and  investments  that  you  have 
informed me you have held in the past, I have established that you have knowledge and experience 
of investing in the following:
Existing  Pensions;      you  would  class  yourself  as   a  fairly           inexperienced  investor  but  you  understand 
the  investment  approach  and    believe  that   a  Balanced / ATR 3  approach  is  correct  at  this  point 
based  on your  time  until  retirement  and your  objective  of  long  term  capital  growth  over  and  above 
inflation.   As you are a fairly inexperienced  investor  we discussed  the capacity  for loss boundaries  in detail 
to make sure you have the capacity and tolerance to cope with the potential losses this profile could deliver.
I checked  that the asset  allocation  of recommended  fund will fit within  your selected  15% capacity  for loss 
boundary.
And:
Transferring  to a Royal  London  Personal  Pension  Plan  (PPP)
We discussed the option to transfer to a Royal London Personal Pension Plan.
Transferring   involves  uncertainty  - there  are no guarantees  about   investment   performance  (which  could 
even be negative) so the benefits you will receive at  retirement  cannot  be  predicted.
They could be higher or lower than the benefits you would be giving up. The three factors which will 
determine the value of your benefits  are:
investment performance in the period to retirement; and
contract charges; and
the cost of converting your accumulated fund value into an income at retirement.
Transferring is therefore only suitable if you areprepared toaccept the associated investment risk.
As you know  from our recent  discussion,  we measure  the investment  risk of transferring  by calculating 
'Critical Yields'. The Critical Yield to your 65th birthday is 4.0% per annum.
The Critical Yield  is  an    estimate of  the level of    investment   growth  required  over  the  period  to  your 
anticipated   retirement  date  which, if achieved, should  provide    benefits    equivalent   in     value to  the 
benefits   you     would  be  giving  up on  transfer. Theoretically,  therefore,  if  investment    returns  match the 
Critical Yield, the    value  of  your  benefits  following  a  transfer  will  be  the  same  as  the  value  of your 
benefits had you not  transferred.
However, it is important to understand thattheCritical Yield is an estimate only, based on a 
number of actuarial assumptions (these are detailed in the Transfer Analysis Report). Unless 
these assumptions are  borne  out  in  practice, the  rate  of  investment  growth   actually required  to 
provide equivalent value  benefits  could  be  higher  or  lower. In other  words, even if the  investment 
return exactly   matches  the  Critical Yield,  you  may  not  receive    equivalent  value benefits  to those  
you  would  be giving  up. Indeed  even   if  the investment  return  exceeds  the Critical  Yield, the value of 
the benefits you could secure after transferring could be lower than the benefits you would  be 
giving up by transferring.
Our Critical  Yield    calculations  are based  on an Annual    Management  Charge  of 1.35%  in the Transfer  Value 
Analysis  (TVAS)        report.  I explained          I  used            the  Selectapension  to  produce  the  TVAS  report.
The charges  apply  to Royal  London's  internal  fund range.  If you invest  in their external  fund range,  an 
additional    Annual  Management    Charge  will  be  applied.  So if  at  any    time  you  invest  in their 
external fund range, the investment return required to match Critical Yield will increase 
proportionately.
Benefits  on death  before  retirement
On death before age 75, your pension can be paid tax free to your estate or nominated 
beneficiary, either in instalments or as a tax free lump sum. Should you die after the age of 75, the 
death benefits can be paid either as an income or as a lump sum to a beneficiary, which is then 
taxed at their marginal rate of income tax.
Accessing  your  pension  - early  and late retirement
Following a transfer, you will be able to take your benefits at any time after age 55. You are not obliged  to 
buy  an  annuity  at   any  time   but  if  you  do  wish to, you must  take  the  tax  free  cash before your 75th birthday.
And:
Additional  Important  Information
As  your  total pension  fund  is in excess  of  £1M you  have stated  that you  understand  and  are fully 
aware  of  the  potential  tax  charge  that  may  be  applied  to  your  pension  funds  in  excess  of  £1M.
The amount over £1M will be taxed at 55% if taken as a lump sum or 25% if taken as an income.
Flexibility
As  noted  above, the     way in  which  your  pension  would be paid    by  the  Scheme  will  be  dictated  by its 
Rules at that  time.
By contrast, transferring into an individual plan will mean that there you have substantial 
flexibility- not just in how you invest your fund before retirement and in when you choose to take 
benefits, but also in how you take your benefits, such as:
Taking your benefits (including Tax Free cash) - in part or in full - at   any  time  after  your 
55th birthday
Buying   a  guaranteed   lifetime   annuity   to  suit  your  financial   and  domestic  circumstances  
at that time
Buying   one  or  more  temporary   annuities  to  provide  a  specific   level    of  income     for 
a    set period (less than five years)
Income   Withdrawal,  enabling  you to take Tax-Free  cash  and  to  either  defer  taking  any 
income at all, or to take an income of your choice.
Continuing    with  a  form of Income Withdrawal  after  age 75 until your  death, 
rather than buying an annuity
Take the entire fund as cash, this is subject to a tax charge.
The adviser then set out his recommendation:
My  recommendation   is  that  you should   transfer   your  existing  (OPS) to a  Royal  London  PPP.  I believe  that 
the critical yield of 4.0% per annum to your age 65 is potentially achievable.
You  have   agreed      with  my  advice, and  although you continue to work for your employer  you have made 
the    decision  to  transfer   your (OPS) benefits  away   to  an  alternative provider (Royal London) as you are 
aware  that the current  fund  value  within  the (OPS)  is at an all time high and you want  to transfer this 
fund    value  now  to  an  alternative  provider  to  take   advantage  of   this high fund value.
You want to now take control of these  pension benefits  and you also want  the higher  tax free 
cash that would  be available  upon  transfer  and also the superior  death  benefits  and pension  succession  
planning than can be obtained by transferring to an alternative pension provider.
You  have  said  that  you  may  also  like  to  access  the  tax  free  cash  from  these scheme  benefits 
at your age 55 in order to pay off your outstanding £250,000 interest only mortgage loan.
All these options are not available within your existing (OPS).
Also  another   reason   why  you  want  to  transfer  these  pension  benefits  away  from your employer  is 
because (employer) have   stated  that  after 23rd May 2017 all  plan    transfer    values   will    be reduced   by 10%.
My recommendation  is based  on the following:
The Critical  Yields  are I believe  achievable  at 4.0%  per annum  (age 65) and could  be achieved  year on year 
in    a  personal  pension plan. Your  Risk  Profile (your  attitude towards  investment  risk) is Balanced/ 
ATR 3    and  I believe balanced    risk  rated  funds  should    potentially  achieve  the  growth rate needed every year. I made you aware past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Benefits   on  death before retirement are higher    in a  Royal  London personal pension plan  than  in  the
(OPS) .
Benefits  on death  after retirement  in the personal  pension  are dependent  on the annuity  rates  at the 
time  of  your retirement, annuity are currently  very  low and  it  is  unknown when they will rise 
again.
Personal  Recommendation
There    were     a  number  of  factors  that  have  been  taken  into  account  before   r  eaching  my   decision, 
some  were  financial,  others  were  dependent  on your personal  circumstances  and the risk exposure  levels 
present within all generic product types available from the whole of the market.
We have excluded   from our  consideration all retail  investment  products  that have an Inherent Risk 
level  within    the  product    that  is  higher   than  your  agreed   attitude  to  risk  or  that  could  produce  a 
loss of Capital greater than your tolerance for loss.
Following     research   using    the    independent  research    tools      O&M      as         well  as        market  intelligence,  and 
taking  into  account  your  objectives  and    attitude  to  risk,  I recommend  you  do  transfer  your (OPS) 
to  a  Royal  London  PPP  plan  because  of  the  critical  yield  needed     to  match  the  benefits    in  the 
(OPS) could  be achievable.  The  available   tax  free cash,  death   benefits  and  pension  succession   planning  
are also better  in  a  Royal   London  PPP    than  your  existing  (OPS).
Balanced   investors   do  not  particularly   regard   themselves   as  cautious   people   and  have   no  strong  
positive  or  negative  associations  with  the notion     of  taking  risk. They  will  typically  have  some 
experience  of  investment  and  a  degree  of  understanding  of  investment  matters.
And:
Benefits  Lost  on Transfer
You   want   to take control  of  your  income  in retirement   we must  point  out  however  that  by 
transferring your (OPS) you will lose the following benefits:
A guaranteed pension for life, once in payment would be paid for a minimum term of 5 
years.
A guaranteed spouse's pension.
Statutory  revaluation  of your pension  benefits  through  to normal  retirement  age, with 
escalation in retirement as previously indicated.
Existing  Arrangements
You will be transferring  your existing  (OPS)pension scheme  benefits  to this new plan being  recommended with 
Royal London.
It  has been explained  that your  existing  pension  provider  will not apply a transfer  penalty (up until 
the 23rd May 2017 only) in order for you to affect this transfer.
It   has  also  been   explained  that  there  is  no  guarantee    that  this  new   pension  provider     will  perform     a ny 
better that the fund performance within your existing plan.
You  understand   that  the  process   of  transferring   these  funds   to Royal  London  may take some  time to 
complete.
There  also may  be  a period of  time during the actual transfer process that these funds are not invested  
and therefore  not participating  in any growth  these  funds  may otherwise  experience  during  this time.
You also understand the value of your pension fund with Royal London will initially be lower than 
currently  due to our adviser  charge  being  deducted  from this capital  investment  and this may take some time to recover its value.
As      an  alternative  to  transferring  your  plan    we         considered  the  option  of  keeping           this         with  your  current 
provider whilst changing the funds into which you are invested.
This can have  the advantage  of avoiding  any new initial  charges  whilst  enabling  your objectives  to still be 
potentially achieved.
In this instance however we did not feel this was a suitable option for you because although you continue 
to    work    for   your employer  (OPS)   you  have   made    the  decision  to  transfer your (OPS) benefits  away  to 
an alternative  provide  (Royal  London)  as you are aware  that the current  fund value  within the (OPS) is at  an 
all      time    high  and  you  want  to  transfer  this  fund  value   now      to an alternative provider to take 
advantage of this high fund value.
You  want  to  take control of these pension benefits and you also want the higher tax free cash that 
would beavailable upon transfer andalsothesuperior death benefits andpension succession 
planning than can be obtained by transferring to an alternative pension provider.
You   have  said that  you may also  like  to  access  the  tax  free  cash from these scheme    benefits  at  
your age 55  in  order    to  pay  off  your  outstanding £250,000 interest only mortgage loan. All  these 
options are not available within your existing (OPS) .
Also  another    reason   why  you  want  to  transfer      these  pension  benefits  away  from  your employer     is 
because  (OPS) have  stated  that after 23rd May 2017  all plan transfer  values  will be reduced  by 10%.
You   also   wish  to  have  your  new  plan  regularly reviewed  going    forward  to  retirement  but did  not 
wish to pay for these reviews from your own pocket, preferring them to be paid from the product itself.
It was confirmed that a fee of about £20,000 had been agreed for the provisional of advice. In the 
Appendix section it was set out:
Lifetime Allowance
You can save  as much  as you like towards  your pension,  but there  is a limit on the amount  of 
tax relief  you can get. The lifetime  allowance  is the maximum  amount  of pension  saving  you 
can build  up over your life that benefits  from tax relief.  If you build  up pension  savings  worth  
more  than the lifetime  allowance,  you'll  pay a tax charge  on the excess.
The lifetime  allowance  applies  to any pension  savings  you have  in:
a registered  pension  scheme
an overseas  pension  scheme  that qualifies  for UK tax relief  for either  you or 
your employer  on or after 5 April 2006
The lifetime  allowance  reduced  to £1 million  on 6 April 2016  (previously  £1.25  million).  Most  
people  won't  have  to pay the lifetime  allowance  charge.
The lifetime  allowance  applies  even  if you're  in a pension  scheme  that you don't  make  
payments  into; for example,  if you're  in a workplace  pension  that only your employer  makes  
payments  into.
Pension  savings  are tested  against  the lifetime  allowance  when  you take your pension  
benefits  and on certain  other  key events.  Your  scheme  administrator  will value  your pension  
savings  and check  if they're  worth  more  than the lifetime  allowance.
Other  events  triggering  a lifetime  allowance  test include:
when  you reach  age 75 in certain  circumstances
if you transfer  your pension  pot to a qualifying  recognised  overseas  pension  
scheme  (QROPS)
if a pension  you're  getting  increases  beyond  a certain  limiton the payment  of certain  lump  sums  - such  as serious  ill health  lump  sums,  
some  types  of death  benefit  lump  sums
Rates  of lifetime  allowance  tax charge
The charge  is paid on any excess  over the lifetime  allowance  limit.  The rate 
depends  on how this excess  is paid to you. If the amount  over the lifetime  
allowance  is paid as a:
lump  sum - the rate is 55 per cent
pension  - the rate is 25 per cent
On 15 June 2017 a copy of the Suitability Letter was sent to Mr R.
It is correct to say that Financial Conduct Authority guidance is that transfers from defined benefit 
schemes arent usually in the consumers best interests and that it should be assumed at outset 
that it may not be in the consumers best interests. Having said that, there can be reasons why an 
individual may still wish to transfer and why it might be appropriate for them. That is largely 
dependent on their objectives. In essence, in this case it is submitted that a transfer was 
appropriate because of Mr Rs objectives. It is submitted that, in the main, those objectives were to 
take advantage of a high CETV before a reduction imposed by the OPS, and the flexibility that a 
transfer to a personal pension would confer.
It is clear that Mr R disagrees with this and he essentially says he sought out advice, as 
suggested by his OPS, as to what he should do with his pension. He says he had not made any 
decisions and required advice from PFS as to his options and what would be in his best 
interests.
I would set out initially that I disagree with the suggestion that the advice was given on the basis 
that Mr R had left his OPS or had ceased accruing benefits in that scheme. Mr R was still 
employed by the same employer and was a member of his pension scheme when the advice was 
given. The letter accompanying the provision of the CETV indicates that he was still a member 
and it was his choice as to whether he took a CETV of not. Furthermore I believe the PFS adviser 
gave the advice likely based on an understanding that Mr R was still a member and could 
continue to accrue benefits. In his report he said:
You asked me to look at your pension plan with (employer) who you currently work for; your 
period of service has been from 02/10/1989 until the present time. You joined the (OPS) on 
02/10/1989. You want to find out the benefits of your (OPS) and then decide what to do with 
these plan benefits.
Although you continue to work for your (employer) you have made the decision to transfer your 
(OPS) benefits away to an alternative provider (Royal London) as you are aware that the current 
fund value within the (OPS) is at an all-time high and you want to transfer this fund value now to an 
alternative provider to take advantage of this high fund value.
Later in the same report the adviser said:
In this instance however we did not feel this was a suitable option for you because although you 
continue  to work for your employer  (OPS) you have  made  the decision  to transfer  your (OPS) benefits  away 
to an alternative provide (Royal London) as you are aware that the current fund value within the (OPS) 
isat an all-time high and you want to transfer this fund value now to an alternative provider to take 
advantage of this high fund value.
You want to take control of these pension benefits and you also want the higher tax free cash that 
would beavailable upon transfer and also the superior death benefits and pension succession 
planning than can be obtained by transferring to an alternative pension provider.
You   have   said that   you   may   also  like  to   access    the  tax  free   cash  from  these   scheme    benefits at 
your age    55   in   order  to    pay     off      your  outstanding   £250,000  interest   only   mortgage   loan. All             these 
options are    not  available   within    your    existing (OPS) .
Also  another  reason   why  you  want  to     transfer  these     pension     benefits     away  from  your   employer  is 
because  (OPS) have  stated  that after 23rd May 2017  all plan transfer  values  will be reduced  by 10%.I dont believe Mr R had left his OPS at that point and I believe it is more likely that, as Mr R says, 
he was still a member and approached PFS as to what steps to take, based on that suggestion by 
his OPS. The decision then was whether to transfer. I also dont agree that it is likely that Mr R has 
already decided he wanted to transfer. I think that highly unlikely given he was exploring the 
options with PFS. And in any event, it still would have been PFSs role to advise on all the 
advantages and disadvantages of that so that Mr R was in an informed position as to whether to 
transfer.
As to the critical yield, I agree that was not high. The return required to equal the benefits given up 
is within a reasonable range of what could be achieved so I dont believe the transfer was 
inappropriate on that basis (i.e. the rate of return was optimistic or unrealistic).
However Mr R was giving up 37s years of benefit in a final salary scheme. Apart from his main 
residence, Mr R had very modest savings - £10,000. It is clear that he was materially dependent 
on his pension for his financial security in retirement. It was critical to his ability to support his 
future financial needs and his partners needs. Apart from potentially downsizing and selling his 
holiday property, it is not apparent how Mr R would support himself and his spouse should those 
benefits be compromised. Whilst it was set out factually in the advisers recommendation that his 
final salary benefits were largely guaranteed and that the money purchase benefits would be 
dependent on investment returns I dont believe any real emphasis was given to this. I believe 
PFS, acting in Mr Rs best interests, should have advised caution in giving up those benefits and 
being entirely reliant on unknown investment returns  which could be negative. By transferring to 
the personal pension Mr R was entirely dependent on as yet unknown and (to some extent) 
volatile investment returns.
One the reasons why it is put forward that Mr R wished to transfer was because he wished to 
repay his mortgage with his pension. Mr R disputes that and says this was a separate matter and it 
was only mentioned as an option by PFS. Because Mr R had very limited other savings it would 
appear that, as he says, he only had limited options, such as the money needed deriving from his 
property  I assume selling his holiday property or downsizing. It is difficulty to arrive at any firm 
conclusions as to what Mr Rs intentions were, but I would say that this does not necessarily mean 
he had to transfer or is an overriding reason why he had to do so given the benefits he was giving 
up.
In any event, the adviser set out that Mr R would be entitled to an approximate £250,000 lump sum 
from his OPS at 65. So, it was not that there were not significant sums available if need be from the 
OPS if Mr R needed that for mortgage repayment, if that was a step Mr R wanted to take in future. 
That does not seem to me to have been made clear as an option.
I dont believe Mr R was restricted by the date his benefits would become due from his pension 
scheme. He says that he could take benefits from age 55  but I have not seen confirmation of 
that. But it does seem from the documents I have seen that he can normally take benefits at age 
60  which is the age when ideally Mr R was intending to retire. So it was not that it was crucial 
that Mr R needed to transfer so that he could take benefits at 60. And I am not of the view there is 
any persuasive evidence that he needed to take benefits from 55.
Furthermore I do not believe that sufficient emphasis was made of Mr Rs immediate liability to tax 
if he took sufficient benefits from his pension on transfer. Immediately on transferring about a third 
of Mr Rs pension was above the Lifetime Allowance  nearly £400,000. If he took that excess as a 
lump sum he would be liable to tax charge of over £200,000. It was set out factually what the 
Lifetime Allowance was, and how money in excess of that would be taxed but there were no 
worked examples in a monetary sense and it was not discussed exactly what that meant in Mr Rs 
position. It does seem clear that Mr R did not, and does not, understand the ramifications.
What was also not discussed was that his benefits for the Lifetime Allowance were assessed 
differently dependent upon whether his benefits were Final Salary or Money Purchase. At the time 
advice was given, and based on the values at the time, it is my understanding that Mr R wouldnt 
have had any liability to tax by virtue of the Lifetime Allowance on his Final Salary benefits. Even 
based his expected pension income at normal retirement age and assuming no increase in the 
Lifetime Allowance limit, there would have only been a modest liability to tax.
Conversely any positive return on his personal pension would be subject to higher level of 
taxation.
I do recognise that Mr R did take some withdrawals from his personal pension. But he has explained the reasons for that and I am persuaded that he more likely did that because it was an 
option open to him, rather than it indicating that this was the whole point of the original transfer. I 
have not seen that he made any other material use of the personal pensions flexibility  such as 
repaying his mortgage.
Mr Rs risk acceptance appears to me quite modest and he doesnt have any particular 
experience of investments. I dont believe he is an experienced investor and would find in easy 
to manage a personals pension (or subsequent drawdown) which such a large amount of 
money. He is not in my view an individual who would likely wish to gamble with his future 
security by transferring such a large defined benefit pension.
PFS has said that I should disregard any comments that Mr R makes now but I dont agree I 
should do so. Mr Rs comments are evidence that I take into account and give the same weight as 
PFSs comments. I also take account of the documentation and what was recorded about the 
advice that was given.
Mr R has said that he prefers the certainty of a defined benefit pension to the situation he is in 
now, after he was advised to transfer. On balance I believe that Mr R didnt likely appreciate the 
benefits he was giving up and it was not made sufficiently clear what the disadvantages of that 
might be. As discussed I also believe that there were some material factors that were not 
explained sufficiently  such as alternative methods for repaying his mortgage and the taxation of 
pension benefits. I think, in addition to the security of his benefits going forward, the combination of 
these factors would have likely changed Mr Rs decision to accept the transfer.
I appreciate there is a significant amount of factual information in the documents which would 
justify a transfer in these circumstances. But in the specifics of this case I dont believe Mr R was 
in a fully informed position as to whether to transfer and I dont believe a positive recommendation 
to transfer was in Mr Rs best interests here.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have remained in the 
occupational scheme. On-Line must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in it s Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
On-Line may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid into 
Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should be 
paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date On-
Line receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes On-Line to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time 
where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be 
added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest 
and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires 
payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the 
balance.
Determination and money award: I require On-Line to pay Mr R the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require On-Line to pay 
Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require On-Line to pay Mr R 
any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that On-
Line pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above 
on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on On-Line. My recommendation is 
not binding on On-Line. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my final decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
I also believe that Mr R will have been caused some upset and inconvenience by the loss of his 
OPS benefits. I therefore believe an additional payment of £400 is warranted for this.
Submissions further to the provisional decision 
Mr R accepted the provisional decision.
On-line didnt accept the provisional decision and made further submissions. I have 
considered its submissions in full but in summary it said:
Whilst the COBS 9.2.1 guidance is that it should begin from the assumption that a 
(defined benefit) transfer is unsuitable, a transfer can still be suitable based on the 
facts.
COBS 9.2.1 states that it must take reasonable steps to ensure that any 
recommendation is suitable. That different approaches may be recommended does 
not make one unsuitable.
As to the Lifetime Allowance, there was a disclosure in its report that set out: 
As your total pension fund is in excess of £1m you have stated you fully understand 
and are aware of the potential tax charge that may be applied to your pension funds 
in excess of £1M.
The amount over £1M will be taxed at 55% if taken as a lump sum or 25% if taken as 
an income.
So it fails to see how a finding can be made that this was not brought to Mr Rs 
attention. Mr R was aware his pension fund was in excess of £1 million and that he 
would be taxed at 55%. The wording confirmed he fully understood the issue. The 
adviser also discussed the issue with Mr R.It considers Mr R would have a general understanding of the LTA issue from his 
scheme membership and by comment in the media. Mr R has not been tested 
on this point. If Mr R was not clear on this issue then he was free to query it but 
he did not do so. The risk was disclosed to him. 
Whilst I have said in the provisional decision that the transfer was not unsuitable 
based on the critical yield, the provisional decision makes no finding as to whether Mr 
R would be better off in the long run and it believes, taking into account all the risks 
and benefits, he would be. If Mr R did beat the critical yield he would be better off. It 
believes a failure to consider this to be highly material.
I do not have a free hand to weigh evidence without holding an oral hearing. Mr R 
has given some questionable evidence. Examples are the fact at he does not recall 
discussing repaying his mortgage using his pension or recall the term all time high 
when this is recorded in in its recommendation report.  
It is unclear how I had reached a finding about whether Mr R wished to transfer when 
he met with it. Mr R had already formed a view as to the transfer. The fact that Mr R 
was taking advice was a requirement before he could transfer - so seeking advice 
does not indicate his state of mind. 
It is unclear whether the full reasons for the withdrawals from Mr Rs pension had 
been established. If Mr R had been of the opinion that drawdown was unsuitable and 
his pension fund should be protected, then he would make no further withdrawals. It 
finds it irrational for Mr R to take withdrawals and not arrive at the conclusion that he 
was in favour of drawdown. 
It does not accept that I can take a view, on balance, as to what Mr R did or did not 
know from a review of the file alone or what this would have meant to his decision to 
transfer. I have not spoken to Mr R or the adviser. Its understanding is that this 
service is able to make a finding where there is no dispute over the facts and there is 
no dispute as to what the complainant would have done had they been advised 
differently. And this complaint fails on both matters. The facts are in dispute and the 
decision Mr R would have made is contested. 
It considered a hearing is necessary.
A defined benefits transfer should not be characterised as a gamble as I have done, 
and is rather a weighing of the costs and benefits and the likely expected outcome. 
All the risks of the transfer were documented or discussed with Mr R. So it did take 
reasonable steps to provide a suitable recommendation. The advice was thought out, 
reasoned and justified. There were a range of factors that supported a transfer and it 
would need a hearing to find otherwise. 
I considered PFSs request for an oral hearing and issued a separate letter dated 25 April 
2022 setting out my view that I dd not believe such a hearing was necessary in the 
circumstances to fairly resolve the complaint. And asked that the parties make any final 
submissions within 14 days.
Mr R said that he had not left his pension scheme when he met with the adviser  and only 
left his pension scheme in 2017 following the advice that had been given. He recalls giving 
all the pension documentation to the financial advisers involved. 
On-Line did make further submissions. In summary it said that it remained of the view that a 
hearing was necessary. It said that there were factual disputes and counter factual scenarios 
that the contemporaneous file could not address. Therefore a hearing should be held to 
address that. It did not agree that the case could be resolved without a hearing or further 
clarification for my findings. It suggested that I had reached findings making assumptions 
about Mr Rs understanding, attitude and intentions which there wasnt evidence to support. It said that it would appear that a finding had been reached as to what he ought reasonably 
to have done and what he should have thought when the correct question was he would 
have in fact dine and what he did think. It felt that if the points made in its previous 
submission had been considered and further investigations has been made then it would be 
appropriate to issue a further provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered On-Lines further submissions. I believe I addressed its request for an oral 
hearing in my letter of 25 April 2022 and I remains of the view that an oral hearing is not 
necessary in this case to fairly resolve it. I did set out in that letter that there were factual 
matters that I considered in the provisional decision which led to my findings and sufficient 
evidence to reach those findings is available without the need to hold an oral hearing. 
I also said that the fact that Mr Rs intentions are in dispute or certain facts are in dispute 
does not mean that an oral hearing has to be held. It is normal in most complaints for there 
to be some disagreement about what has occurred and what the intentions of the parties 
were. It is for the investigator or ombudsman to weigh up the evidence in such 
circumstances, decide what is most likely to have happened and reach a fair and reasonable 
decision in the circumstances. That does not always require an oral hearing to be held.
I have not undertaken any further investigations since the issue of the provisional decision 
as I believe the evidence is such that I can reached a fair and reasonable decision. I set out 
in my letter of 25 April 2022 that both parties had been given ample opportunity to make 
representations and set out their positions. And they have been given a further period of time 
in response to my letter of 25 April 2022. Bearing that in mind and having taken all of the 
evidence and arguments into account, I am satisfied that I should now proceed to issue a 
final decision. 
I set out in the provisional decision that I accepted that a transfer from a defined benefit 
scheme could be suitable dependent on the circumstances and the consumers needs and 
objectives. I also said that the transfer did not appear unsuitable based purely on the critical 
yield  i.e. the yield was not so high that in isolation it presented unreasonable risk that parity 
or an increase in benefits would not be met. But neither does the fact that the critical yield 
falls within a reasonable range make the transfer suitable or appropriate. It is not possible as 
is submitted, to say that Mr R would be better off by transferring - because that could not be 
known at outset. There was only a possibility that his benefits could be improved (they could 
well be less than those given up) and therefore transferring was a gamble to some extent 
because he was giving up guaranteed benefits for as yet unknown benefits. This is one of 
the main risks of transferring. So I disagree that it is possible to determine at outset that Mr 
R would be better off.
It was this uncertainty and the risk Mr R was being advised to take by giving up his principal 
source of financial security in the future that I did not believe had been fully made clear and I 
do not believe the evidence demonstrates that the gravity of that was made clear. 
Comments to the effect that  future benefits are not guaranteed does not go far enough in 
the circumstances. I explained in some detail in the provisional decision the extent of the 
risks Mr R was being advised to take and I would refer the parties to the provisional decision. 
I do not agree with the submission that the issue I set out with the Lifetime Allowance was 
made clear to Mr R. As I set out in the provisional decision, the issue was not simply a 
factual statement that a pension value over a certain amount would be subject to tax. The issue was that it was not explained how that generated a much higher tax liability than was 
present if he retained his OPS. Mr R could not query the issue as is suggested if he did not 
know of it  he sought out professional advice so this kind of technical issue could be 
explained to him so he could make a fully informed decision. I have not seen any evidence 
that it was and I do not agree that it can be assumed by the suggested confirmation that he 
fully understood the issue of the applicable tax rate on a sum above the lifetime allowance 
that he knew of the issue of the difference in tax liability generated by the transfer . 
Mr R has been asked about this and clearly set out that he was not aware of this matter in 
the context I have described and I believe his version of events is more likely correct  given 
the lack of any persuasive evidence it was explained. He has said that this would have made 
a difference to his decision to agree to the transfer and I believe that, in additional to the 
other matters I discussed in the provisional decision, this would have made a difference to 
his decision. That is not a finding as to what Mr R should have done or ought to have done, it 
is a finding about what he likely actually would have done. 
I agree that there was a requirement that Mr R seek professional advice before a transfer 
could take place from his defined benefit OPS. However, I remain of the view that the 
evidence does not demonstrate he had made his mind up to transfer as is submitted and he 
was set on that course of action. That is not what the evidence demonstrates and I set that 
out in the provisional decision. Furthermore Mr R has confirmed that he had not made his 
mind up that a transfer would be in his best interests and he was expecting PFS to set out all 
the various benefits and disadvantages to him and make a recommendation in his best 
interests. This is what a professional adviser would be expected to do in these 
circumstances.  
Mr R has not made withdrawals from his pension to the extent that would indicate that this 
was a principal reason for his transfer. He has explained that he made a small number of ad 
hoc withdrawals for personal reasons and not to repay his mortgage. My view was that this 
was a route open to him after PFS had given its advice and after the event. It does not 
necessarily mean that this was the reason for the transfer itself. If the flexibility in the context 
of taking benefits was of great importance to Mr R then I would have expected him to make 
more use of that  which he has not done. So that does not indicate a particular need in that 
area.  
Having reviewed the complaint, for the reasons given in my provisional decision and in the 
final decision, my decision is that the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. On-Line must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in it s Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
On-Line may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the 
date On-Line receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes On-Line to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require On-Line to pay Mr R the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require On-
Line to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require On-Line to 
pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend 
that On-Line pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated 
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on On-Line. My 
recommendation is not binding on On-Line. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
I also believe that Mr R will have been caused some upset and inconvenience by the 
loss of his OPS benefits. I therefore believe an additional payment of £400 is warranted 
for this.My final decision
I uphold the compliant and order The On-Line Partnership Limited  trading as In Partnership 
to calculate and pay my award as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman