DRN-3574139
The complaint
Miss M complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED, trading as Likely Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Likely Loans here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Date taken Amount 
borrowedTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
payableDate 
repaid
Loan 1 23.01.20 £500.00 12 £53.25 £639.00 25.02.20
Loan 2 26.10.20 £500.00 12 £53.25 639.00 01.12.20
Loan 3 17.05.21 £1,000.00 12 £106.50 £1,278.00 07.03.22
In its submissions Likely Loans has advised that loans 1 and 2 were withdrawn by Miss M 
and repaid shortly after taking them. And so, after Miss M had complained to Likely Loans, in 
its final response letter (FRL) it agreed to refund the interest paid for on these two loans. 
Because of this I consider those loans resolved and so I have not reviewed them. 
Likely Loans gave information about what it did before approving loan 3 and did not think it 
had done anything wrong. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and for loan 3  the only loan left to resolve 
 he did not think that Likely Loans needed to do anything to put things right for Miss M over 
and above what it had already done for loans 1 and 2. 
Miss M disagreed and says that her credit situation was bad and she could not afford loan 3. 
So, the partially resolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Likely Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Miss M  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Likely Loans did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Miss M. 
In practice this meant that Likely Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Likely Loans has explained that it verified Miss Ms income at £1,121 a month. It carried out 
a credit search and had this information to use when assessing Miss Ms application:
Total Revolving Credit debt £1,081.00
Total Non-revolving credit debt £791.00
Total debt extracted from Experian (Rounded up to nearest 
£100)£1,900.00
And it summarised the other information in this way: 
You made 2 searches in the last six months.
You had not been in arrears in the last six months.You had a low Debt-to-Income ratio of 7.5%.
You had no CCJs registered against you within 36 months of your application.
You had no defaults registered against you within 12 months of your application.
You were not in arrears on any of your priority debts.
You were not in arrears on any of your financial commitments.
You had a monthly repayment size of £106.50 representing less than 9.5youre your 
monthly income.
You were not in Bankruptcy or in an IVA.
You were only using 45.0% of your credit card limits at the time of application which 
is a good indicator of your financial position.
Your monthly commitment on your existing debts was £136.
In the six months prior to your application with us you had not taken out any Payday 
Loans.
It knew Miss M was living at home in which case her housing costs were likely to be, and 
were, lower than if shed been in private rented accommodation or had a mortgage. 
Likely Loans assessed that the £106 a month repayment costs were affordable to Miss M 
even with what it knew about other credit commitments costing her £136 a month. With her 
income, outgoings and credit commitments considered, it calculated that Miss M had £268 a 
month left over and then it built into the assessment a margin which it called a buffer of 
around £76 each month. So, it considered Miss M would have had around £193 left each 
month after having paid Likely Loans as well. 
Miss M has described her situation and I am sorry to hear it but I have no evidence from her 
to demonstrate the situation she felt she was in when she applied for the third loan.
In her complaint form and in her complaint letter to Likely Loan, Miss M had said that Likely 
Loans had refused her three times before approving these loans. Likely Loans has informed 
us that it only ever received three loan applications from Miss M and all three were 
approved. So, it has no records of any rejections. And I have seen no evidence of any loan 
refusals from Likely Loans to Miss M. 
Likely Loans carried out checks proportionate to the size of loan, loan term and knowing the 
lending history it did with Miss M. I consider that Miss M did look to be able to afford loan 3 
and I do not uphold her complaint. 
As already outlined, Loans 1 and 2 have been resolved before Miss M brought her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman and so I do not uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman