DRN-4191216
The complaint
Miss C complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) provided her with loans without carrying out appropriate 
affordability checks. 
What happened
Miss C was granted four loans by MoneyBoat, Ive outlined her borrowing history in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £400.00 08/03/2021 29/04/2021 4 £157.82
2 £700.00 12/05/2021 07/06/2021 6 £211.66
3 £400.00 11/06/2021 07/07/2021 5 £134.19
4 £300.00 16/07/2021 07/12/2021 5 £97.98
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed it Miss C 
could afford them. Unhappy with this response, Miss Cs representative referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Miss C could afford the loans and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Miss Cs representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss C could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors include:
Miss C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss C. The adjudicator didnt consider 
it reached the point in Miss Cs complaint.   
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss C was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Cs complaint.
Before each loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Miss C for details of her income, which 
she declared as being between £1,400 and £1,600 per month. MoneyBoat says the income 
figures were checked by cross referencing information through a third-party report but the 
results of this report havent been provided.  
Miss C also declared monthly outgoings as low as £660 when loan 2 was advanced and as 
high as £815 when loan 4 was granted. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used 
information from its credit searches (which Ill come onto discuss below) to adjust the 
declared expenditure Miss C had provided. As a result, of this check, Miss Cs monthly 
expenditure was increased by as little as £35 per month at loan 4 to £190 per month at loan 
2.  
After carrying out these checks, Miss Cs disposable income ranged from £550 to £750 per 
month.  Even when MoneyBoat adjusted the disposable income that Miss C had declared, 
she still had sufficient income to be able to afford the repayments she had to make. 
Before each loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Miss C was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew 
there were no current insolvency markers, County Court Judgements or debt management 
plans. And for each loan application it knew that Miss C hadnt defaulted on any account 
within the last three years. 
It did know that Miss C had been discharged from a Debt Relief Order in October 2017 but 
as this was over three years before the first loan was approved, I dont think that wouldve 
given MoneyBoat any cause for concern or to have prompted it to have carried out further 
checks. 
In addition, all these loans appear to have either been repaid early or on time and the loan 
amounts werent always increasing. And so, there wasnt anything solely from the way these 
loans were managed which wouldve shown MoneyBoat that Miss C was having or likely 
having financial difficulties. 
Overall, there was also nothing in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Miss C had provided. So, while Miss Cs representative has provided her bank statements, 
in this case, it wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Miss C gave about her income and expenditure to show she had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments she was committed to making. I also consider 
the checks it carried out to be proportionate. Finally, there wasnt anything else to suggest 
that Miss C was having financial difficulties  such as in the way the loans were repaid, or 
that these loans would be unsustainable for her. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman