DRN-3448752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Target Servicing Limited has treated them unfairly by asking 
them to repay overdue management fees. They say this is unfair as it was Targets error that 
led to the fees not being paid.
Mr and Mrs H also say the monthly management fee wasnt explained to them when the help 
to buy equity loan was sold to them. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a help to buy equity loan in September 2017 that has been 
administered by Target. 
Target says that, due to an administration error, Mr and Mrs Hs direct debit instruction 
wasnt set up when they took out the loan. This meant that the management fee of £1 per 
month wasnt paid since the start of the loan. Mr and Mrs H only found out about this over 
three years later when Target reviewed any accounts that didnt have an active direct debit. 
On 12 May 2021 Target wrote to Mr and Mrs H. Target asked them to set up a new direct 
debit instruction for the management fee going forward and to arrange to repay the arrears 
of £44 that had built up since the start of the loan. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to Target saying they believe it has undertaken poor professional 
practices and it cant keep on top of its administration. Target issued a final response letter 
to their concerns, upholding part of their complaint. Target agreed that the payments hadnt 
been taken due to its administrative error and that it was sorry that Mr and Mrs H were not 
told about this for so long. However, Target still said that Mr and Mrs H needed to make up 
the missed payments now. It said the unpaid management fees were due to be paid by Mr 
and Mrs H under the terms and conditions of the contract they had signed when they took 
out the equity loan. Target said it was unable to waive any of the management fee payments 
despite its error.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Targets response and referred their complaint to us. Since 
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to us, they have repaid their equity loan. They say 
Target deducted the outstanding management fee at the point the loan was redeemed 
without notifying them. 
 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint 
should be upheld. He thought Target was contractually entitled to have been paid the £1 
monthly management fee, but he thought it was reasonable that Target waived the 
management fees outstanding to the point its error was identified. He said Targets handling 
of the issue had caused upset to Mr and Mrs H. He thought it fair that Target pay Mr and Mrs 
H £75 for the trouble and upset its mistake had caused to them.  
Target didnt agree with our investigators findings. It asked that an ombudsman look at the 
complaint again and reach a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld. Im also in broad agreement 
about what should be done now to put things right. 
Ive looked at the terms of the agreement signed by Mr and Mrs H. Im satisfied it was made 
reasonably clear that there was a £1 monthly management fee to be paid. Target has said 
that it made a mistake administering Mr and Mrs Hs help to buy equity loan. It has agreed 
that it was its fault that no management fee was taken for over three years and that its sorry 
its mistake went unidentified for so long. 
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs H could possibly have known sooner that there was a 
problem with the management fee payments set out in the contract. I can see from the 
annual equity loan statements sent to Mr and Mrs H that they were told by Target each year 
that they had no administrative fees outstanding. I also consider that the amount to be paid 
was so small that I think its plausible that Mr and Mrs H didnt notice it wasnt being taken by 
Target each month. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs H were upset when they received the letter from Target 
saying they were behind with the payment of fees that they didnt recognise or remember 
agreeing to when the equity loan was taken out. They were also frustrated to find that they 
needed to find a way of paying an additional £44 to Target. I consider it would have led to a 
loss of expectation on the part of Mr and Mrs H, not least as their annual equity loan 
statements reported them as being up to date with administrative fees and charges. 
Im pleased to see that Target gave Mr and Mrs H some options to repay this amount in a 
way that was affordable to them. Target said it could take the amount owed in full along with 
their first direct debit instalment. Or it said Mr and Mrs H could pay the additional amount 
when they settled their equity loan, or by way of a regular payment arrangement with Target. 
I think its reasonable that it offered these options to Mr and Mrs H.
However, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it is fair for Target to 
ask Mr and Mrs H to repay the management fees from the start of the loan to the date the 
problem was explained to them. Im persuaded that if Mr and Mrs H had known that they 
were underpaying this amount sooner, they would have made the payments of £1 each 
month over the years. Targets administrative error meant they didnt have this opportunity. 
I consider that but for Targets error, Mr and Mrs H would have made this payment each 
month for years. And it is only because of Targets mistake that they were asked to make 
additional payments now. While Im satisfied this amount was due to Target under the 
contract, I dont think it is fair and reasonable that Target charged these historic fees to Mr 
and Mrs H when they repaid their equity loan. 
Mr and Mrs H have said why this matter has had a detrimental impact on them. Mr and Mrs 
H have said that they appreciate that the sum of money involved isnt huge, but it made them 
question the integrity and professional conduct of Target. I also consider their frustration 
over the whole situation would have been exacerbated by Target taking the payment of the 
management fees outstanding at the point they repaid the equity loan without discussing this 
with Mr and Mrs H.Im persuaded that this issue has been upsetting for Mr and Mrs H. I can understand why Mr 
and Mrs H were worried to be told they were behind with payments to Target, when they had 
been led to believe they were up to date with their equity loan and other fees and costs. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think that its fair and reasonable that Target waives the monthly 
management fee from the start of the equity loan to May 2021, when the issue was identified 
and explained to Mr and Mrs H. I believe the amount which has been deducted when Mr and 
Mrs H repaid the equity loan was £44. I think it is also appropriate that when Target 
reimburse Mr and Mrs H, that it applied interest at 8% simple from the date Mr and Mrs H 
repaid the equity loan to the date that Target processes the refund of the fees.
In addition, I consider it fair that Target should pay Mr and Mrs H £75 for the trouble and 
upset caused to them by its mistake.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Target Servicing Limited is upheld. I direct 
Target Servicing Limited to do the following to settle the matter:
- Reimburse Mr and Mrs H for the monthly management fee from the start of the equity 
loan to May 2021 when the issue was identified and explained to them (plus interest 
to be applied at 8% simple from the date the equity loan was redeemed to the date 
Target refunds the amount to Mr and Mrs H);
- Pay Mr and Mrs H £75 for the trouble and upset caused to them by its mistake. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman