DRN-2096950
The complaint
Mr F says AIB Group (UK) Plc (trading as First Trust) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr F was sold the policy when he took out a loan in 1997. The cost of the PPI got added 
onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy. It covered Mr F in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Having done that, I dont think Mr Fs PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats passed, First Trust dont still have the original documents from 
Mr Fs sale, which is understandable. But they have given us sample documents to show 
what the sales process wouldve looked like at the time.
From those, I can see that Mr Fs application wouldve offered him the choice to take or turn 
down PPI, and then he wouldve signed below to confirm his choices. Mr F said the staff 
member filled out the form for him while asking him questions. The staff member wouldve 
needed to discuss the other areas of the form with Mr F in order to fill it out, so I think its 
most likely that they discussed the section for PPI too, including the choice offered. And 
ultimately, there was an onus on Mr F to read and check what he was signing for. Further, it 
looks like his credit agreement wouldve displayed his choice about buying PPI and set out 
its cost separately to that of the loan itself. And Ive not seen any wider problems with First 
Trusts sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr F was misled or 
unfairly pressured here. So I think its most likely that First Trust made Mr F aware he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it out at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
First Trust didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
It did have to give Mr F clear information about the PPI, so that he could decide for himself 
whether the PPI was right for him.
It is possible that the information First Trust gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like 
Mr F was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main limitations. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Fs work benefits and offered him more comprehensive cover. 
And while I understand he felt secure in his job, company policies change over time and job 
losses can and do happen, even in roles that feel secure. So the PPI could have been useful 
for Mr F in case something went wrong. And given how long the policy could have paid out 
for, if Mr F made a successful claim he couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Lastly, while Mr F wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled 
the policy early, I havent seen anything to suggest he thought hed repay the loan early at 
the point of sale. So overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman