DRN-4440891
The complaint
G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money it lost in a scam.
What happened
What G says:
In October 2022, G placed an order to buy goods from a company in China (which I will call 
A). Three days later, G changed the specification of the order. On 17 November 2022, the 
company in China (A) sent a pro forma invoice and G confirmed the order and paid the 
amount due  which was £2,533 plus charges - £2,548 was debited to Gs Barclays 
Premium account on 21 November 2022.
The business manager at A then said the order was delayed due to Covid. G asked for an 
official letter to say this. The business manager then said the price had increased, and 
another payment of USD3,000 (£2,533) was needed before the factory would start 
production.
G terminated the contract and asked for a refund. Contact continued via WhatsApp and 
WeChat. Then, on 19 December 2022, the business manager said they didnt have the 
money and it was with her boss. She gave different numbers for WhatsApp and WeChat, 
but after a short period these numbers were blocked. G contacted Barclays on 10 January 
2023 to report the matter.
Payment:
Date Transaction Amount
21 November 2022 International payment (USD2,950.44) 
 from Barclays Premium account £2,533
Charges £15
Total Loss £2,548
(continued)
G says it did sufficient due diligence on A. It googled it and saw its factory, its warehouse of 
products, saw a photo of the business manager and the numbers on its website were those 
they used to contact A. A also had a quality accreditation on its website.
G says the lost money has left a big hole in its cashflow and it may now need to cease 
trading. G says Barclays should reimburse it for the fraud/scam under the APP Code 
pledge  whereby Barclays should refund victims of Authorised Push Payment scams.
What Barclays said: 
Barclays discussed Gs complaint with its director and declined to refund the money. 
Our investigation so far:
G brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said it appeared to be a civil dispute and not a 
scam. As far as she could see, A was a legitimate trading company and its terms and 
conditions outlined its complaint procedures in the event of a dispute. So  she said G 
should contact A to do that.
G disagreed. It said it was the victim of a scam. It said cloned/ fake websites had been set 
up, together with other umbrella and proxy companies, with fake company profiles. The 
method of the scam was to attract a buyer (such as G) by reference to the reputable 
website, and then issue a pro-forma invoice with fake company credentials. The fake 
website has now been taken down.
A asked that an ombudsman looks at its complaint, and so it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a first step, I need to decide whether this was a scam (where a scammer takes money 
from a customer with no intention of providing any services or returning the money to them) 
or a civil dispute (where a payment is made to a legitimate trading company or business, but 
the promised services or products dont materialise, or are sub-standard).
Looking at the evidence that A has provided, Im persuaded that this was a scam. I say that 
as:
- G has shown us that several websites were being used.
- The fake website has been taken down.
- A was given new WhatsApp and WeChat numbers, and these were then blocked and 
communications ceased.
- A doubled the price of the goods within a few days.
- A (or the scammer company) showed no signs of dealing with G, listening to its 
complaint, or renegotiating the contract  - or trying to find an agreeable outcome for 
both parties.
This has all the signs of a scam  rather than G dealing with a reputable company.
So  I will look at this complaint as an Authorised Push Payment scam case. The Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt apply in this 
case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to a UK beneficiary and in this 
case, the payments were to an overseas account. So  a refund using the CRM Code 
principles cannot be considered.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Barclays to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im sorry to hear that G has lost money in a scam. Its not in question that G authorised and 
consented to the payment in this case. So although G didnt intend for the money to go to a 
scammer, it is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with G when it 
made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered the 
position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payment was of a sufficient size and was out of 
character with how G normally used its accounts  then we would expect Barclays to have 
intervened and spoken to G about it.  In this case, I dont consider Barclays acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made.
(continued)
Whilst I understand the loss has had a big impact on G, I dont consider the payments were 
so out of character that Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns that G may be the 
victim of fraud. I am mindful of the fact the payments were made from a business account 
where larger payments arent unusual. I reviewed both the statements for Gs current 
account and premium account. There were large payments made of a similar amount to the 
disputed payment  such as:Barclays Premium account:
- 6 October 2022: £2,000
- 20 September 2022: £1,000
- 12 September 2022: £1,200
- 5 September 2022: £3,000
- 12 July 2022: £3,000
- 6 June 2022: £1,096
- 9 February 2022: £1,699
Current account:
- 6 October 2022: £2,000
- 12 September 2022: £1,000
- 5 September 2022: £3,000
- 12 July 2022: £3,000
- 6 June 2022: £1,068
I accept that some of the payments were between the premium account and current account  
but nevertheless, they were payments of a similar amount to the disputed payment. And  
this, taken together with the fact that this was a trading business account, means Im 
persuaded that we wouldnt have expected Barclays to have intervened and questioned the 
payment. 
Theres also a balance to be struck: Barclays has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction 
as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think 
Barclays acted reasonably in processing the payments.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Barclays took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. 
I can see that Barclays contacted the recipient bank in February 2023 to ask if the funds 
could be returned. In cases where an overseas bank is concerned, this process can take a 
lot longer than where a UK bank is involved, and the bank must ask the beneficiarys 
permission to return the funds.
In March 2023, I can see the recipient bank responded to say the money was in the 
beneficiarys account  but it was for G to contact the beneficiary to ask for a refund. I know 
that wont be helpful to G  as it means it is back to square one, but as far as Barclays 
obligations are concerned, they did what was expected under the regulations and best 
practice.
G has argued strongly that this was a sophisticated scam, and therefore Barclays should 
refund the money  but as Ive set out here, the payment wasnt of a size, or was unusual 
enough, to have reasonably expected Barclays to have intervened and stopped it. So  I 
dont hold Barclays liable for the amount of the payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman