DRN-3520242
The complaint
Mr T has complained that jch investment management limited (JCH) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a self invested personal pension (SIPP).   
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of 
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as 
a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 
December 2017. 
Mr T was introduced to JCH by a colleague in June 2016. JCH completed a fact find 
document in July 2016, in which Mr Ts circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was 53, in good health and living with his partner. He had two financially 
independent children.
He was employed by British Steel, earning £34,000 pa, and his partner was 
employed, earning £13,000 pa.
He had £6,000 in cash savings, and outstanding loans and credit card debts 
amounting to around £25,500, for which his monthly repayments were approximately 
£600.
Mr Ts partner owned their home, valued at around £130,000, with an outstanding 
repayment mortgage of around £50,000  this was paid for by his partner.
Mr T had death in service life cover of six times his salary, equating to approximately 
£204,000.
After expenditure, Mr T had approximately £1,000 left over each month.
Mr T had completed over 20 years service with the BSPS. Hed recently joined the 
defined contributions scheme, into which a total of 6% of his salary was being paid.
Mr Ts attitude to risk was recorded as being balanced.
In terms of Mr Ts deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, at 
which point the transfer value analysis (TVAS) - required as a part of defined benefits 
transfer assessments at the time - said that he could expect an annual income of £24,475, or 
tax free cash of £113,000 and a reduced income of £16,945 pa.
If Mr T retired at age 57, the TVAS estimated that he would receive £12,298 pa, or a tax free 
lump sum of £57,000 and a reduced income of £8,514 pa. 
Mr T had recently received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS for his 
deferred benefits of around £230,000. This was guaranteed until 12 October 2016.
Within a suitability report dated 3 August 2016, Mr Ts objectives were recorded as follows:
To control his pension fund. Mr T was concerned about the future of both his 
employer and the pension scheme. 
Flexibility with the level of income he would receive in retirement. Mr T wanted to 
semi-retire at age 57, working part time until his state pension began at age 67.
To clear his debts by taking a tax free lump sum at age 55  but not an income, 
which hed need to take with the BSPS benefits.
Although the amount of income hed need was unclear, he planned for around 
£15,000 pa, consisting of £7,500 part time income and the remainder from pension 
funds.
To maintain financial security, and avoid the possible scenario of the BSPS entering 
the PPF.
The facility to manage the investment of his pension funds.
He wanted the death benefits from his pension to be passed to his partner, and not 
be lost in the form of a 50% spouses pension (should he marry his partner) from 
the BSPS. He also wanted to be able to leave his children an inheritance, should any 
pension funds remain.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that the SIPP would need to grow by 13% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a 
retirement age of 65 on a tax free cash and reduced joint life pension basis. On a full joint life 
pension basis, this would be 14.7% pa.
At a retirement age of 57, the SIPP would need to grow by 27.9% pa to match the BSPS 
benefits on a tax free cash and reduced joint life pension basis. On a full joint life pension 
basis, this would be 37% pa.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the SIPP would need to grow by 9.7% pa to match the PPF benefits on a 
tax free cash and reduced joint life pension basis. On a full joint life pension basis, this would 
be 10.1%
At a retirement age of 57, the SIPP would need to grow by 36.3% pa to match the PPF benefits on a tax free cash and reduced pension basis. On a full joint life pension basis, this 
would be 37.9% pa.
It was noted within the suitability report that, some years previously, Mr T had been advised 
to transfer his BSPS defined benefits away and that, following an internal investigation, the 
advising company had conceded that its advice had been poor and had reinstated Mr Ts 
pension benefits in the scheme. But as Mr T was now a deferred member of the scheme, 
and following the introduction of pension freedoms, he wished to revisit the possibility of a 
transfer.
JCH recommended that Mr T transfer his deferred benefits in order for him to achieve his 
objectives, and Mr T accepted the recommendation. It further recommended that Mr T invest 
his pension funds in the jch Balanced Investment Portfolio.
The fee to complete the transfer was 3% of the transfer value, which would be taken from 
the pension fund. There would be an ongoing adviser fee of the higher of 1% of the portfolio 
value, or £2,500.
Mr Ts representative complained to JCH in March 2020, saying that Mr T was approaching 
retirement and that it was very likely that the recommended SIPP would have provided a 
lower income than he would have received from the BSPS2 or the PPF. It further said that 
Mr Ts main objective was to ensure a secure income in retirement, which would have been 
met by retaining his defined benefits.
It didnt consider the stated objectives to have been genuine or personalised to Mr T and it 
didnt think Mr Ts concerns about the BSPS and the PPF had been appropriately managed. 
It considered that suitable advice would have been for Mr T to remain in the scheme.
JCHs response to the complaint
JCH responded to Mr Ts complaint as follows:
The option of moving into the BSPS2 wasnt available until September 2017, and so 
as Mr Ts transfer took place in October 2016, this wasnt relevant. A portfolio 
restructuring had been announced in May 2016, but unless the scheme was 
modified, the most likely outcome was that it would move into the PPF.
It reiterated Mr Ts stated objectives and that, due to concerns about his employer 
and the scheme, he chased JCH in July 2016 to learn of the transfers progress  a 
testament to his keenness to proceed.
As Mr T wasnt married at the time of the advice, neither his partner nor his children 
would benefit from the scheme death benefits. By contrast, the post transfer death 
benefits were available to all of them.
When considering the suitability of the transfer, it considered Mr Ts personal 
circumstances and it followed all the FCAs guidelines at the time, including the 
starting assumption that it wouldnt be in Mr Ts best interests to transfer.
Given Mr Ts national insurance contribution record, he was likely to receive a high 
percentage of the basic state pension, which would cover his rental costs, but also 
the bulk, if not all, of his additional core expenditure. He would also benefit from his 
membership of the employers defined contribution scheme, along with the 
associated death in service benefits.It was therefore clear that Mr T wouldnt be fully dependent upon the income from the 
BSPS.
Mr T was paying his partner £300 pm for living expenses, which it was judged would 
be sufficient to rent a small flat/house in the same area should they separate.
Mr Ts attitude to risk was comprehensively reviewed, along with his capacity for 
investment loss. Whilst the latter wasnt high, on balance and taking into account all 
the relevant factors, Mr T remained keen to transfer his BSPS benefits.
The differences between a defined benefits and defined contribution scheme were 
clearly explained to Mr T and he signed a replacement policy questionnaire to 
confirm his understanding of these.
Although Mr T was a member of the defined contribution scheme, he didnt want to 
transfer his defined benefits into that scheme due to his mistrust of his employer.
Due to the review of the previous advice given by another party to transfer his 
defined benefits, which led to their subsequent reinstatement, Mr T was fully aware of 
the guaranteed nature of the benefits he was relinquishing.
Cashflow projections demonstrated that, if Mr T saved 50% of his surplus income, he 
would have a fund of around £106,000 at age 99, and £212,000 if all of it was saved.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Ts representative referred the complaint to this service, 
and JCH provided further comments as follows:
It wasnt Mr Ts main objective to ensure a secure income in retirement. Flexibility 
was a key driver in his decision to transfer  and this was personalised to him rather 
being a stock objective.
Mr T wasnt told that he couldnt retire early if his pension entered the PFF, as had 
been suggested by Mr Ts representative.
It considered that Mr T wouldnt have accepted advice to not transfer, such was his 
mistrust of his employer and his desire to control his pension funds.
The critical yields made it obvious that securing a better income in retirement was 
unlikely. And so if this had been the main objective, the transfer wouldnt have been 
recommended  and neither would Mr T have accepted it.
Flexibility was key to Mr T, not just in terms of income, but also in accessing capital 
sums at age 55 to improve his overall financial position  for example repaying his 
unsecured debts.
In September 2017, Mr T withdrew £7,500 to be supplemented by part time work. By 
September 2018 Mr T said he was now likely to retire at age 60, and had cleared the 
bulk of his debt using the tax free lump sum withdrawn in 2017, with only £2,000 
outstanding. Mr T had also used the lump sum to boost his cash savings, and to pay 
for his wedding and holidays. So Mr Ts objectives had been met. 
Mr Ts recollection that he didnt require flexibility wasnt therefore consistent with 
what actually happened. Nor was his objective to match or better his BSPS pension 
through the transfer. He required £7,500 pa to supplement his planned part time income and state pension.
Although Mr T was able to meet the pre-existing monthly debt repayments of £500 
pm, he also wanted the peace of mind of reducing his overall debts  as in fact 
happened.
Although Mr T had said that he might get married in the future, this wasnt a certainty 
at the time of the advice. He was, however, very concerned that his partner would 
receive a payment in the event of his death.
Ironically, the transfer may have been the reason that he did then marry as he used 
the pension lump sum to pay for the wedding and honeymoon.
The importance of Mr Ts previous experience of a pension transfer had been 
underplayed by his representative. Mr T wasnt a nave individual who had been 
taken in by sharp practice. His investment experience, including losses in bank 
shares and gains in others, had been discussed and he was comfortable with the 
prospect of investing in financial markets.
The conversation around the previous defined benefit transfer was not only a 
reminder for Mr T of its associated negative aspects, but also a precursor to 
highlighting the risks and pitfalls of making a decision to transfer a second time. But 
these were compared to his objectives and needs.
Mr T only needed £7,500 pa once his debts had been repaid, and taking into account 
part time working. Mr T was unconcerned that, by transferring and spending large 
capital sums early on, he would have lower pension benefits in retirement.  He was 
aware that this was the cost for being able to spend money in a discretionary 
manner in his mid-fifties.
The representatives assertion that the transfer wasnt necessary to meet Mr Ts 
objectives was incorrect. It enabled Mr T to repay a large amount of his debt and pay 
for his wedding and honeymoon, buy a car, and still leave money to provide the 
income he needed in retirement.
The recommendation considered more than just the stark comparison of the critical 
yield  it was holistic advice and followed the subsequently introduced Appropriate 
Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA). This recognised that pension transfer advice was 
more than just a financial comparison, and that a transfer could provide a client with 
choices they didnt have within the scheme. Mr T made it clear he wanted those 
choices and, since the transfer, hed been able to meet his objectives.
The last time it had met Mr T as a client, the pension fund had been able to provide 
his income of £7,500 pa.
One of our investigators considered the matter and thought that the complaint should be 
upheld. In support of this position, they said the following in summary:
Mr T had accrued over 20 years service with the BSPS. These benefits were 
relatively secure and would form a significant part of his retirement provision. This 
meant that the security of his defined benefits, which were at low cost to him, would 
have been important.
The regulators guidance when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, he first considered the required critical 
yield to match the scheme benefits. 
The advice had been given during the period in which this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for 
complaints about transfers which were being upheld. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The investigator noted that the discount rate was 2.8% pa for the period up to Mr Ts 
semi-retirement, compared to a required critical yield to match the BSPS benefits of 
37% (for the full joint life pension figure at age 65). The mid growth projection in the 
SIPP illustration document was 1.4% pa.
This meant the potential to improve on the BSPS benefits was compromised  the 
critical yield was too high. 
So the investigator considered it unlikely that the SIPP would be able to return 
sufficient growth to improve upon the relinquished benefits. And to do so would have 
meant exposing Mr Ts pension funds to a higher level of risk than the balanced risk 
rating recorded for him.
Mr T had recently joined his employers defined contribution plan, which would be 
dependent upon investment performance to produce the ultimate pension benefits. 
There were no guarantees with this plan, but it was to this type of arrangement which 
Mr Ts defined benefits were also transferred, which increased his overall exposure 
to investment risk.
The investigator considered the position with the consultation at the time, what JCH 
had said about his objectives and a discussion which was held about the alternative 
of the BSPS entering the PPF. With particular regard to the latter, the investigator 
said that they would expect a balanced discussion to have taken place, given Mr Ts 
lack of trust in his employer and the pension scheme. It should have been explained 
to Mr T that he PPF was independent of his employer, and so his concerns in that 
regard could have been managed.
Mr T had said that financial security was important to him, and although there would 
have been a 10% starting reduction in his pension income within the PPF, he would 
still have received a secure annual income in excess of £11,000 pa if hed taken his 
pension at age 57.
Whilst uncertain as to how much he would need as an income, it was agreed that this 
would be in the region of £7,500 pa. So a pension derived of the PPF would have 
amply covered this requirement. By contrast, the SIPP would have needed to grow at 
37.9% pa to match the (full joint life pension) benefits which would be provided by the 
PPF.
Mr T didnt in any case need to make any decision to transfer at that time. There was 
an ongoing consultation, and as no decision had yet been made on the future of the BSPS, Mr T should have been advised to wait until the outcome was known.
The investigator nevertheless looked at the other reasons as to why the transfer was 
recommended. They noted that Mr T withdrew approximately £59,000 in October 
2017, which he allocated towards paying for his wedding and honeymoon. He also 
withdrew a further £21,500 to repay unsecured lending, buy a new car, fund holidays 
and top up his emergency savings.
But the investigator didnt think that Mr T needed to use his tax free lump sum to fund 
this expenditure. Holidays werent a necessity, and Mr T had disposable income of 
over £1,000 pm. He could have used this to fund non-essential spending and 
although he accepted that debt repayment would have been a priority, this could 
have been funded from the tax free lump sum arising from the BSPS benefits.
In terms of death benefits, Mr T was due to get married and so his wife would have 
benefited from the scheme death benefits. Whilst the lump sum would have been 
higher with the SIPP, this would in any case be dependent upon the time of Mr Ts 
death. Mr T was recorded as being in good health.
With regard to the objective of flexibility rather than a fixed income, the investigator 
noted that Mr T had been recorded as wanting £7,500 pa from his pension at age 57 
to help him semi-retire, and it was envisaged that hed receive a further £7,500 pa 
from part time work. It had since transpired that Mr T hadnt in fact taken an income 
from his SIPP, and had continued to work full time. 
The investigator expressed concern that Mr T had relinquished a valuable pension 
which would have grown in real terms by way of yearly revaluation. But it was also a 
secure income, which Mr T had said he wanted, and the investigator wasnt 
persuaded by the rationale for relinquishing the BSPS benefits.
The investigator set out the description of the balanced investor Mr T was recorded 
as being, and also noted that Mr T had some experience of direct shareholdings. 
Taking into account the actual asset allocation of the subsequent investments, the 
investigator didnt think that they were necessarily unsuitable for him, as a balanced 
risk investor.
But the investigator nevertheless considered that JCH shouldnt have advised Mr T to 
transfer his BSPS benefits, as it wasnt in his best interests. Mr T was now in a worse 
position than he wouldve been but for the unsuitable advice, and if Mr T had retained 
his scheme benefits, the investigator said that he would have opted to join the 
BSPS2.
The investigator therefore recommended that JCH undertake a redress calculation in 
accordance with the regulators guidance, on the basis that Mr T would ultimately have 
transferred into the BSPS2. 
Mr Ts representative agreed with the investigators conclusions. But JCH didnt, saying the 
following in summary:
When advising a retail client such as Mr T on whether to transfer defined benefits, it 
began by assuming that it wouldnt be suitable. It would only consider a transfer if it 
could clearly be demonstrated that it was in its clients best interests.
The BSPS2 didnt exist until 12 months after the transfer recommendation, and the 
PPF wouldnt have fulfilled Mr ts objectives, taking all the risks into account, with which Mr T was fully conversant.
Mr T already had full awareness of the risks and possible advantages of such a 
transfer before dealing with JCH from him having completed the same strategy  
having previously transferred out of the BSPS and being compensated by another 
financial company. JCH referred to its response to the complaint and cashflow 
analysis which it said provided the full picture of the specific recommendation and 
how it achieved Mr Ts goals.
The point about Mr T having monthly disposable income of £1,000 was based on the 
difference between core expenditure and income. If that income wasnt being spent 
every month, Mr T wouldnt have had the debt he did, along with limited savings.
It could only base its recommendations on Mr Ts stated objectives  and hed 
confirmed that it was his intention to use his pension funds to achieve his immediate 
and wider life goals.
It fully outlined that the transfer wouldnt match the guaranteed benefits Mr T would 
be relinquishing but would provide the flexibility he needed then and the required 
income in retirement.
JCH provided a holistic financial planning service for its clients rather than just 
looking at the numbers. 
As agreement couldnt be, the complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter dated 4 May 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why, in my view, the complaint should be upheld. My provisional findings are 
set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time JCH advised Mr T were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like JCH, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, JCH 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ts 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to 
transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of JCHs advice to Mr T in the context of the above 
requirements.JCHs rationale for transferring
JCHs advice pre-dated the outcome of the consultation on the future of the BSPS, and so 
Mr T hadnt yet received information relating to the time to choose exercise which began in 
late 2017. Its JCHs position that Mr T was sufficiently concerned about the future of the 
BSPS to make him keen to transfer (which I address below). But Mr T was nevertheless 
seeking advice on his options for meeting his objectives in terms of the potential transfer. Mr 
T wasnt categorised as an insistent client, and so JCH could be confident that he would be 
acting upon, or at least taking into account, its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, JCH undertook its fact finding for Mr T and then set out its 
assessment of his circumstances and objectives. 
As set out above, in its suitability report JCH summarised Mr Ts objectives as follows:
To control his pension fund. Mr T was concerned about the future of both his 
employer and the pension scheme. 
Flexibility with the level of income he would receive in retirement. Mr T wanted to 
semi-retire at age 57, working part time until his state pension began at age 67.
To clear his debts by taking a tax free lump sum at age 55  but not an income, 
which hed need to take with the BSPS benefits.
Although the amount of income hed need was unclear, he planned for around 
£15,000 pa, consisting of £7,500 part time income and the remainder from pension 
funds.
Maintain financial security, and avoid the possible scenario of the BSPS entering the 
PPF.
He wanted the facility to manage the investment of his pension funds.
He wanted the death benefits from his pension to be passed to his partner, and not 
be lost in the form of a 50% spouses pension (should he marry his partner) from 
the BSPS. He also wanted to be able to leave his children an inheritance, should any 
pension funds remain.
However, before I assess these, I think it would be prudent to assess the transfer from the 
perspective of any purely financial benefit  so in terms of actual likely payments to Mr T.
JCH obtained a TVAS report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ts objectives from a financial perspective. 
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. Businesses werent required to reference these when 
providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of 
the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the years left to Mr Ts proposed part time working 
age of 57 was 2.8% pa. 
The critical yield for retirement at age 57 with the BSPS, at 27.9% pa for tax free cash and 
residual joint life pension, and that required to match the PPF benefits, at 36.3% pa, was 
therefore considerably higher than both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable 
over the same period, and the mid-band growth rate used by the regulator  5% pa. JCH 
itself said that it considered the critical yields to match the scheme benefits to be 
unachievable.And I agree. As with both JCH and the investigator, Im not persuaded that the critical yields 
were in fact achievable, even at the scheme retirement age of 65, year on year, and certainly 
not for the proposed point of accessing benefits at age 57. And as a reminder, these growth 
rates were required to just match the scheme benefits. 
To make the transfer suitable from a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic 
chance that the benefits of the scheme could be bettered through transferring. And, in line 
with the DB transfer guidance at the time, it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the 
transfer would be in Mr Ts best interests. JCH has said that it took this into account when 
assessing the suitability of a defined benefit transfer. As such, my view is that the transfer 
couldnt be justified from a purely financial perspective, especially given the valuable 
guarantees which Mr T would be relinquishing. But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield 
alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B. 
My understanding of JCHs position is that the basis of the recommendation was the benefit 
to Mr T in terms of other objectives being met - including flexibility of income and control, 
along with the different format of death benefits with a SIPP. It also said in the suitability 
report that the amount of income which would be produced by the scheme wasnt needed on 
a yearly basis  an income of £7,500 pa was deemed sufficient for Mr Ts needs, which I 
acknowledge would require a lower critical yield to achieve.
On that particular point, I would say that, unless there was good reason  or reasons - to do 
so, it wouldnt be suitable to recommend a transfer which would reduce an individuals future 
income, simply because they might be able to afford to live on the lower amount. This would, 
for hopefully obvious reasons, be some way removed from providing a recommendation 
which was clearly in that individuals best interests. And there would be little point in taking a 
financial risk for the sake of it if the no-risk option could in any case address the individuals 
requirements.
But before I assess those other reasons to transfer in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to 
say that JCH did provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished. 
However, as JCH will be aware, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice 
suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a suitability report, this also wouldnt 
make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. JCH needed to be satisfied, before providing its 
recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a 
suitable course of action for Mr T.
The requirement for flexibility 
As Ive said above, JCHs reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr T required 
flexibility of income and capital lump sums due to his particular circumstances and 
objectives. And so Ive given this argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, I do acknowledge that Mr T was likely to have understood the 
principle of needing to take some risk to achieve the required reward, along with the 
discussions around such concepts that he may have had with colleagues  I note in that 
regard that Mr T had been referred to JCH by a colleague. Furthermore, Mr T had some 
experience of investing through shareholdings. And so I think Mr T may have had a 
reasonable understanding of the concept of risk/reward.
But I dont think that the experience with his shares would have imbued Mr T with knowledge 
or experience of pension investment matters, especially with such a specialised area as 
defined benefit transfers. Ive also thought about Mr Ts capacity to take financial risks with his pension funds. My 
understanding is that Mr T had joined his employers defined contribution scheme, but even 
so, given the limited amount of time until either age 57 or the scheme retirement age of 65, 
other than the state pension which wouldnt be payable until his late 60s, the defined 
benefits accrued through the BSPS would have been his only source of guaranteed income. 
Any reduction in the benefits payable from them would therefore have had an impact on his 
financial security in retirement. And this was a notable objective for Mr T.
Mr T had some savings, but also debts which would need to be repaid, and so in the 
absence of other notable resources, its unlikely that he would have been able to sustain 
losses in his pension funds. But Ive also in case thought about whether he needed to take 
such risks in the first place.
Its JCHs position that, given the unachievable critical yields, replacing one source of 
guaranteed income with another (eg an annuity) wasnt the objective here  rather, it was the 
facility for Mr T to withdraw income and access capital sums for various purposes, including 
debt repayment, flexibly. But the very likely incapacity of the transferred fund to match the 
scheme benefits is representative of the overall financial loss to Mr T here. And that would 
read across into the performance required of a flexi-drawdown fund within the SIPP to do the 
same. The only way of Mr T maintaining his pension funds to a reasonable age would be to 
withdraw less than he could have received as guaranteed income from the scheme. 
Im also concerned about inconsistencies in JCHs analysis of the scheme benefits which he 
might receive from the scheme at ages 57 and 65. In the suitability report, JCH said that, Mr 
T could expect a tax fee lump sum of £55,059 and a reduced pension of £19,686 pa at age 
65. At 57, it said that Mr T could expect a lump sum of £27,671 with a reduced pension of 
£10,307 pa.
But according to the TVAS, the tax free lump sum at age 65 was projected to be close to 
£113,000, with a reduced income of £16,945. At age 57, the tax free lump sum was 
projected to be close to £57,000, with a residual income of £8,514 pa.
I note that JCH said that the figures it stated were approximations, according to the online 
British Steel Pension Guide, and that the guide was out of date. But Ive also seen email 
correspondence in July and August 2016 between JCH and the BSPS administrators in 
which figures for immediate retirement indicated that Mr T would receive a tax fee lump sum 
of £45,769, in addition to a residual pension of £6,865 pa. 
This ought to have clearly demonstrated that the figures it obtained from the online guide 
were highly likely to be incorrect and that the TVAS was likely to be a much more accurate 
indication of the tax free lump sums and residual pension amounts which Mr T could expect 
from the scheme. I do note that the suitability letter did then refer to immediate retirement 
figures similar to those quoted above, and in a later section entitled TFC Lump Sum at 
Retirement said that the current lump sum available to Mr T would be £43,000, as opposed 
to the amount of £57,717 which would be available from the SIPP (albeit not until age 55).
But JCH didnt address the clear discrepancy between these figures and those quoted from 
the online guide in its communication with Mr T, or point out why the figures it had quoted for 
accessing scheme benefits at age 57 from the online guide were very likely to be incorrect. 
And I think that, in the absence of this being pointed out to Mr T, its more likely than not that 
the figures for age 57 would have been those upon which he would have focused. 
If Mr T was working on the basis that, at age 57 he would only receive £27,000 as a tax free 
lump sum from the scheme (and slightly less at age 55 if this was when he took the tax free 
lump sum), but he wanted to repay debts and pay for a wedding, holidays and a new car, then I might understand why he would have considered the transfer to be the only way of 
doing so. 
But the reality was somewhat different. Mr T could in fact expect a tax free lump sum of 
somewhere between £45,769 (at age 54) and £57,000 (at age 57) at age 55  say 
something in the region of £50,000. And I think from a financial perspective this means he 
could certainly have achieved much of his capital expenditure objective without needing to 
transfer. The additional £8,000 he took from the SIPP, if needed, could have been sourced 
from a combination of the defined contribution scheme pension funds and disposable 
income. Alternatively, given that Mr T had no difficulty in servicing the much higher debt of 
around £25,500 (at around £600 pm), he could have simply continued to pay down the much 
lower debt figure.
But even if a different interpretation of the above was possible, and Mr T understood the tax 
free lump sum available from the scheme would be higher than JCH had earlier quoted from 
the online guide, my view is that the availability of the higher lump sum is in any case 
significant, given that JCHs position seems to be that the only way of Mr T achieving his 
objectives  particularly the capital expenditure - was to transfer to the SIPP. 
Its entirely possible that, on the basis of taking benefits one year later than the quote given 
by the administrators in August 2016, the annual income Mr T would receive from age 55 if 
he withdrew the tax free lump sum at that point would be in the region of £7,500 pa  the 
same amount which it was agreed he would need from age 57 to sustain him in conjunction 
with part time working. And by age 57, this would also have escalated to a higher amount  
and indeed would have continued to do so until he died. 
I also need to emphasise that these were guaranteed income amounts. And theres a clear 
follow on point here relating to Mr Ts apparent keenness to have flexibility in income and 
access to capital sums. To sacrifice these guarantees for the sake of flexibility in an income 
which could never reasonably achieve the same value as that offered by the scheme, would 
not in my view be a suitable course of action. Mr T would effectively be swapping a higher 
guaranteed income for the sake of flexibility in withdrawing a lower overall income. And as 
Mr T would in any case have been able to access an approximate £50,000 capital sum from 
age 55 onwards to fund his other desired goals, I cant see that there was an advantage in 
terms of this objective from transferring.
Its fair to say that Mr T would have needed to withdraw the income from the scheme at the 
same time. But as Ive said above, this would have begun at an escalating figure of 
something similar to what he said he would need by age 57. And if Mr T found himself in a 
position of receiving more income than he required, then he could have gifted this 
immediately to avoid it being subject to IHT if that was likely to have been an issue, used it to 
repay any remaining debt, or reinvested it for later access as he saw fit.
And so, without even needing to consider whether it was suitable for Mr T to take the 
investment risks associated with the transfer and subsequent reinvestment, I just cant see 
sufficient justification for him needing to do so in the first place. Even a high level of 
investment risk, for example primarily in equities with which JCH has said that Mr T was 
familiar through his prior shareholdings, would be highly unlikely to produce the returns 
required, year on year, to match the benefit of the scheme income. Quite apart from which, 
combining a guaranteed source of income with a measure of risk/reward investment through 
his defined contribution scheme membership would seem to me to represent a well 
diversified means of retirement provision which might have been suitable for someone like 
Mr T.
Mr Ts concerns about the scheme benefits entering the PPF JCH has said that Mr T was concerned about the prospect of the scheme entering the PPF. 
But Mr Ts concerns should have been addressed and appropriately managed. I appreciate 
that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions 
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, as appears to 
have been the case here, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options. 
I dont think this happened here. The extent to which Mr Ts concerns were discussed and 
managed appears to have been as follows in the suitability report:
You are aware there has been a lot of bad press about the British Steel pension recently. 
The inadequate funding, talk of potentially reduced benefits and the possibility of entering 
the Pension Protection Fund (see below) has caused you considerable concern and you 
feel that you would be more comfortable holding your funds in an individual plan that is 
under your own control, rather than leave them with your ex-employer just in case any of 
the issues come to fruition and benefits are reduced.
This having been said you should remember that given the required critical yield of 13% it 
is possible that the benefits that could be paid from the PPF may potentially be greater than 
those that could be paid from the transferred fund value.
JCH did then set out the particular features of the PPF, but this was fact based rather than 
offering reassurances in terms of the guaranteed benefits offered. And had such 
reassurances instead been given about the protections which would still be available, even 
in the worst case scenario of the scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, I think Mr T 
would have viewed things differently.
Its also fair to say that the detail of any potential successor scheme, as an alternative to the 
PPF, is likely to have been lacking at this point in time. As Ive said above, this advice 
predated the announcement in May 2017 relating to the RAA, but even if the BSPS entered 
the PPF, many important guarantees would remain. And my view is that, notwithstanding the 
particular features of Mr Ts subsequent decision to access some benefits at age 55, which I 
address below, if Mr T had wanted to retire early or become part time and it was deemed 
feasible, he would in fact have been better off by transferring to the PPF rather than the 
BSPS 2. A reduction of 10% would apply to the benefits payable, but as illustrated by the 
critical yields for accessing pension benefits at age 57, the figure for the PPF was in fact 
higher than the BSPS, indicating a higher early retirement benefit within that scheme. And 
even on the basis of a 10% starting deduction, its possible that those benefits would still 
have met his income needs.
But Mr T also didnt need to make any decision about whether to transfer until more details 
were known about the options which might later be available. My understanding is that there 
was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF. And the consultation was geared 
towards the opposite outcome. But even once the options were known, members still had 
the choice of transferring out of the scheme, rather than being forced into the PPF.
So I dont think that these concerns, if appropriately managed, would have been sufficient 
justification to transfer at this time. 
As it was, Mr T began accessing his SIPP benefits in 2017, before the time to choose 
exercise had completed. And so, on the basis that he would instead have begun accessing 
his scheme benefits, this would have been within the existing BSPS scheme rather than the 
BSPS2 or PPF.Death benefits
Improving on this position was recorded as being an objective for Mr T. The death benefits 
offered by the transfer would be more beneficial to Mr T, his partner and his family  
specifically his children. After the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his beneficiaries, 
rather than in the form of spouses pension from the scheme. I also appreciate that, although 
Mr Ts partner would have benefitted from the spouses pension provided by the scheme 
once theyd married, there was no certainty of this happening at the time of the advice.
But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ts benefits. Firstly, he 
had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to 
not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of time, 
were of concern at that point. 
The second is that, unless there are significant other resources on which an individual could 
rely upon in retirement, which wasnt the case here, accrued pension provision is primarily 
intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy for a 
partner or family members. The recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Ts 
best interests. 
And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the 
extended family, this cannot be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. The desire 
to leave a legacy to his partner and children cannot reasonably have subjugated Mr Ts own 
personal requirement to benefit from his accrued pension benefits. The wish to leave a 
legacy should have been properly weighed against the guaranteed benefits Mr T was 
relinquishing, and JCH should have advised him that his own financial benefit took priority 
here.
Ive also seen no detail as to why a death benefit payment to his partner or children from his 
pension was so important to Mr T - for example, financially straitened circumstances or 
some kind of financial dependence. Mr Ts partner seemed to be financially independent, 
with there being evidence in the form of him paying rent, along with his partner not being 
included in the financial planning discussions, that their finances were to an extent in any 
case separate. And there was no record of Mr T needing to provide for his children as part of 
his normal outgoings  they were independent. I therefore think that it was more likely than 
not an entirely understandable desire to leave some kind of financial legacy, but not 
essential, and certainly not of sufficient importance to justify Mr T compromising the security 
of his own financial future.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ts partner 
and/or children by way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to 
transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr T personally. 
The previous transfer of defined benefits
I think this is an important point which merits its own consideration. JCH has referred to a 
prior transfer of benefits which was recommended by a third party, and following a review of 
that advice, it was deemed to be unsuitable and Mr Ts benefits were reinstated in the 
scheme.
JCH has pointed to this as being evidence that Mr T was familiar with the dangers and risks 
of a defined benefit transfer. And this is quite an attractive position with which I have some 
sympathy. Mr T can surely have been in no doubt that transferring defined benefits might not 
be the suitable course of action for him  it had after all been previously demonstrably 
against his best interests.But Ive also thought carefully about the proposition here, and how that differed from the 
transfer when it occurred some years prior to the advice being considered in this instance. 
The circumstances were by 2016 quite different, and as noted by JCH in the suitability letter, 
Mr T was by then a deferred member and pension freedoms had since been introduced.
And JCH also said in the suitability report that, although Mr T had some prior experience of 
investing, you feel you are still not knowledgeable enough to make your own investment 
choices and that you would much prefer to leave the financial decisions to experts. 
And so, on balance, whilst I accept that Mr T would have been aware that there were risks 
associated with the transfer, he would have reasonably considered the situation to be quite 
different from that which hed been in before  and he was nevertheless reliant upon JCH to 
provide him with a suitable recommendation. I dont therefore think that this particular factor 
mitigates my overall findings on the suitability of the advice. 
What should JCH have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ts decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr T. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive said above, there was no imminent prospect of his scheme benefits 
entering the PPF, which would have ruled out a later transfer. It would have been better for 
him to await further detail as to the prospects for the BSPS, whether this was a transfer into 
the PPF, or as was ultimately the case, the further option of transferring into the BSPS2.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr T was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr T, amongst many others in a similar position, may 
have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but he 
was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. 
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was in 
any case achievable within the BSPS2, and would have remained so even in the worst 
case scenario of entering the PPF. And its likely that, on the basis of early retirement, Mr T 
would in fact have been better advised to enter the PPF. But as set out above, Mr T began 
accessing his SIPP benefits in 2017, before the end of the time to choose exercise, and so 
I think he would in fact have simply accessed the scheme benefits in their existing format.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of income 
and capital sums outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. Given that the lump 
sum which would have been produced by the scheme would have largely met his capital 
expenditure objective and the income would also have met his estimated requirement, the 
available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why flexibility within a SIPP 
would have been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr T to relinquish valuable benefit 
guarantees. And he would have needed to invest in a manner which exceeded even his 
recorded balanced risk rating to try to achieve the required returns to replace the scheme 
benefits. Put simply, transferring placed him an overall financially worse position.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ts concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income and capital access flexibility which I dont think he needed, and a future pension which would be 
diminished as a result of losing the scheme guarantees.
As Ive said above, tax free cash for the intended purposes would have been available from 
his defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were payable from the defined benefit 
scheme in a different format from those available from the SIPP. But for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think this should have been a more important consideration than Mr Ts own 
retirement guarantees which hed be relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And as the critical yields to just match either the PPF or BSPS benefits were considerably 
higher than the discount rate, the regulators mid (and indeed higher) rate growth 
assumptions, I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the 
scheme benefits. This position is supported by JCHs own comments on that point.
The justification for transferring has been that it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ts 
stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. And whilst I accept that the critical yield 
isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced 
by what JCH considers to have been the overriding justifications for proceeding with the 
transfer, for the reasons given above. 
JCHs view is that Mr T was keen on effecting the transfer, and that he would in any case 
have proceeded even if advised not to. And I accept that, prior to meeting with JCH, Mr T 
may have considered that transferring was his best option, especially if he had been referred 
by a colleague who may have done the same. But this was JCHs opportunity to take proper 
account of Mr Ts circumstances and objectives and advise him not to do so, for all the 
reasons set out above.
I certainly acknowledge that it wouldnt be straightforward to effectively undo any 
preconceptions held by Mr T about what he considered to be the benefits of transferring. But 
I think the advantages of Mr T retaining his scheme benefits, if set out in terms similar to 
those above, would more likely than not have persuaded him to do just that. And I think any 
concerns about the pension scheme, especially relating to the prospect of it moving into the 
PPF, would have been assuaged if properly managed.
In terms of the responsibilities of Mr T in deciding whether to still proceed (and as Ive said 
above, I accept that Mr T was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of 
understanding them), I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals 
would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they 
wanted to transfer their defined benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter 
involving many factors with which Mr T, as a layman on pension matters, wouldnt have been 
familiar (even taking account of his experience in shareholdings and the prior transfer)  
hence him seeking the services of a professional party to take those factors into account and 
provide suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr T simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Mr Ts decision to proceed may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the 
financial viability of the BSPS, and as asserted by JCH, his mistrust of his employer, but as 
Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and balanced assessment of the 
schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process.Taking account of Mr Ts circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS2 or the 
PPF, my view is that JCH should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr T would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the SIPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr T, nor was it in his 
best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ts attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have been required to match the 
scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive and 
balanced portrayal of Mr Ts options and the future benefits available from both the BSPS 
defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 
19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr T were available without needing 
to transfer  early retirement and a tax free lump sum for his planned expenditure, which 
would have been available to him through the BSPS (or indeed through the PPF). 
It follows that my view is that, taking account of those critical yields, Mr Ts balanced attitude 
to risk with regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding 
investment returns, it was unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor 
scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were in 
my view insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits being 
relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, JCH would - or should - then 
have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. 
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr T, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for JCHs 
unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ts deferred benefits isnt possible. Therefore, JCH 
should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how 
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As set out above, my current view is that, had Mr T not transferred his pension funds to the 
SIPP, he would have begun taking his benefits from the existing BSPS scheme in 2017, 
rather than from the successor BSPS2 or the PPF.
As such, the calculation on the basis of Mr T starting to withdraw his BSPS benefits at the 
same time as he began accessing those within his SIPP, with full tax free cash withdrawal at 
the outset, should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of 
any final decision along these lines. 
JCH may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
JCH receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes JCH to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: In the event that I uphold this complaint, I would require 
JCH to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
JCH to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JCH to 
pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also recommend 
that JCH pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T were to accept a final decision on the above basis, the money award would be 
binding on JCH. My recommendation would not be binding on JCH. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr T could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. In the event that the 
complaint is ultimately upheld, Mr T may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
In response, JCH commented on my findings, saying that it understood the financial 
reasoning within the provision decision, but wished the following points to be taken into 
account:The advice allowed Mr T to achieve all of his financial and life requirements, whilst 
still providing the income required in the future.
The advice clearly demonstrated that the critical yield couldnt be attained, but this 
wasnt the driver for his lifestyle/debt or emotional needs.
The requirement to leave benefits for his beneficiaries was a major factor in Mr Ts 
decision making, whilst also facilitating the income he needed in retirement.
The diversity in his portfolio ensured that his risk tolerance was met and it continued 
to do so to date.
That Mr T was in good health at the time of the advice was no guarantee that he 
would continue to be in the future.
Accessing his BSPS income at the same time as taking the tax free cash would have 
resulted in an unacceptable actuarial reduction of around 50%.
The PPF was discussed in meetings and in the suitability report.
Mr Ts representative also submitted further comments, saying the following:
In October 2017, Mr T accessed approximately £59,000 tax free cash to repay his 
outstanding loans, credit card debts and to pay for his wedding, with the remainder 
being placed on deposit as hed witnessed his SIPP funds decline in value by around 
£8,000 over the year since transferring.
Mr T has continued to work for British Steel, but on a part time basis since April 2022. 
Hes been drawing around £1,000 pm from the SIPP to supplement his part time 
income.
Mr T had no pressing need to access his tax free lump sum in 2017. He had some 
cash savings and was managing his debts with an income/expenditure surplus of 
£1,000 pm.
Mr T was therefore able to manage his debt and finance his wedding without 
accessing his tax free lump sum, and had he not transferred his defined benefits, he 
wouldnt have needed to access his BSPS early, or at least not as early as he did.
The aim of the redress was to place Mr T as close to the position he would otherwise 
have been but for the business error. It was inappropriate to assume that, had Mr T 
retained his defined benefits, he would have taken the same actions as he did in 
relation to his SIPP.
The representative therefore requested that it be made explicit that Mr Ts losses 
should be calculated to age 65.
On the basis that, had Mr T not transferred he wouldnt then have accessed his 
pension benefits in 2017, the representative requested that separate redress 
calculations be performed assuming that he would have entered the BSPS2 and the 
PPF, and that the higher redress sum be paid to Mr T. This would, the representative 
said, reflect the choice Mr T would have made in accordance with whichever 
produced the greater benefit.
The calculation for a hypothetical transfer into the PPF should also take into account 
the proposed buy out which would remove the pension funds from that scheme.
The representative requested that when the redress calculation was performed, a 
breakdown of the figures be sent to it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To firstly address the points made by JCH, I note that its said that the advice enabled Mr T 
to achieve his financial and life requirements, whilst still providing the required income. But 
for the reasons given in the provisional decision, other than the lump sum death benefit 
which Ill address further below, Mr T was also able to meet his key objectives, including the 
tax free cash and estimated required income, through taking his scheme benefits.
JCH said that it made it clear that the critical yield couldnt be attained, with which I agree, 
but again, for the reasons given in the provisional decision, my view is that the other reasons 
given wouldnt justify the transfer. 
In that regard, JCH has focussed on the death benefits for Mr Ts beneficiaries, but for the 
reasons set out in the provisional decision, I didnt think that the prospect of a financial 
legacy for his family should have subjugated his own financial security in retirement. My view 
on this remains the same, and whilst I take the point that good health in 2016 didnt mean 
that this would endure in the future, the advice needed to be given based on Mr Ts 
contemporaneous circumstances and objectives. 
Had Mr T been in particularly poor health, such that a limited life expectancy and lump sum 
death benefit would more likely than not have provided an overall great financial return for 
both him and his beneficiaries, my view may have been different. But this wasnt the case 
here, and as far as Im aware, Mr T continues to enjoy good health.
As to the actuarial reduction in Mr Ts income if he took benefits at the same time as the tax 
free cash, this reflects the fact that Mr T will ultimately have been paid the scheme income 
for longer. As I said in the provisional decision, that starting income would nevertheless have 
met Mr Ts estimated retirement needs and was both guaranteed and escalating  for life. As 
I also said, if Mr T didnt need the income, he could have gifted it away, or invested it for 
future access, but it seems that Mr T has since begun part time work and is regularly 
withdrawing from his SIPP  and so the income which could have been provided by the 
scheme is in any case likely to have been of significant benefit before Mr T began to receive 
his state pension.
JCH has also said that the PPF was discussed in the meetings held and detailed in the 
report. But my view on that aspect is unchanged from that set out in the provisional decision.
Turning then to the points raised by Mr Ts representative, Im afraid I dont agree that it 
should be assumed that, but for the transfer, Mr T would have deferred accessing his 
scheme benefits until age 65. Mr Ts objective in terms of repaying his not insignificant 
unsecured borrowing  at around £25,000 and consisting of both loans and credit card debt, 
the former, if not both, of which is very likely to have been charging interest - was clearly set 
out in the suitability report. And I think this was an entirely reasonable and likely key 
objective  this wasnt expenditure on a whim which might well have been deferred until 
later. And whilst I also acknowledge that Mr T was able to service the debt from his income, 
being able to service a debt and wanting to either significantly reduce or eliminate the 
interest payable on that debt are two different considerations. 
This debt repayment couldnt have been covered by the £6,000 which Mr T was recorded as 
having on deposit, and so he would have needed to access his tax free cash to meet this 
objectives. This in itself would have required Mr T to begin taking scheme benefits.
But theres the additional expenditure on Mr Ts wedding and subsequent holidays which 
also needs to be taken into account. Its difficult for me to definitively determine whether Mr T married because he had access to the tax free cash after the transfer, or whether this was 
something which he would in any case have done. But I think its just as likely as not that 
marriage was an emotionally led decision, rather than being financially led. And so he would 
have needed to access cash to pay for it. By September 2018, Mr T was recorded as having 
around £10,000 on deposit, which is consistent with what his representative has said about 
him placing the remaining tax free cash on deposit as a result of witnessing declines in the 
value of his SIPP.
But assuming that Mr T had spent around £25,000 on unsecured debt repayment, if there 
was only an excess tax free sum of £10,000, his wedding and subsequent holidays are likely 
to have cost significantly more than the £6,000 Mr T was recorded as having on deposit in 
2016.  
My view remains, therefore, that it would be fair and reasonable for an actual loss calculation 
to be undertaken on the basis that Mr T would have begun to receive scheme benefits at the 
same time as he began receiving them from the SIPP. This would have been before the 
time to choose exercise concluded to determine whether a member wished to transfer to 
the BSPS2 or the PPF. And so considerations relating to these latterly available options 
dont apply here.
Summary
My view on this complaint remains the same as that set out in the provisional decision and 
for the reasons set out in that decision and expanded upon above. On a fair and reasonable 
basis, I consider that Mr T would have suitably advised to retain his benefits in the BSPS 
and that he would then have begun to access them as he did in 2017  and thereafter.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. jch investment management limited must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision. 
As set out above, my view is that, had Mr T not transferred his pension funds to the SIPP, he 
would have begun taking his benefits from the existing BSPS scheme in 2017, rather than 
from the successor BSPS2 or the PPF.
As such, the calculation on the basis of Mr T starting to withdraw his BSPS benefits at the 
same time as he began accessing those within his SIPP, with full tax free cash withdrawal at 
the outset, should be carried out. 
jch investment management limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
jch investment management limited receives notification of his acceptance of this final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes jch investment management limited to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require jch investment management limited to pay Mr T 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require jch 
investment management limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require jch investment 
management limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
jch investment management limited pays Mr T the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award will be binding on jch investment 
management limited. My recommendation would not be binding on jch investment 
management limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr T could accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this final decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct jch investment management limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman