DRN-4385927
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Santander UK Plc didnt pay money into her account after a 
failed attempt to deposit cash in an Automated Teller Machine (ATM).  
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 26 April 2023 Miss E said she tried to deposit £800 in cash in an ATM. She said the 
transaction failed and the cash was presented back to her. But that she was only able to 
retrieve back £600 before the ATM slot closed  during which time a £10 note got torn. 
Miss E said she alerted a member of branch staff who opened the ATM and recovered her 
£200, as well as the torn £10 that was stuck in the slot. Miss E said the staff member told her 
they would keep hold of the £200 and credit it into her account the next day.  But Santander 
only credited Miss Es account with £10 and she wants the remaining £190 returned to her. 
Miss E complained to Santander. It said there was no banking error. It said an ATM dispute 
had been raised and there was no evidence of a £200 discrepancy. Santander said there 
was a possible discrepancy of £10  which it had refunded to Miss E.
Santander accepted the ATM hadnt completed Miss Es deposit but said all the cash had 
been returned to her. It confirmed that branch staff had checked the ATM at the time for the 
£200, and said, the cash that [Miss E] saw the cashier with was not linked to [Miss Es 
transaction]. 
Miss E complained to the Financial Ombudsman. She maintained shed attempted to deposit 
£800 in the ATM and Santander had stolen her cash. Miss E said Santander had treated 
her very badly  accusing her of being a liar. She said CCTV footage will show the staff 
member removing her £200 from the ATM and keeping it. 
Our Investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss E 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. She maintained Santander 
owes her £190. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss E and Id like to assure her I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Miss E that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but 
Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Miss Es strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the significance of the 
£190 to her. She is clearly aggrieved with the outcome Santander has reached  which she 
has understandably perceived as Santander questioning her integrity. But aside from that, I 
need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell Santander to refund the disputed 
£190 if the technical evidence supports there was a discrepancy or error with the ATM 
resulting in the £190 loss. 
Santander has said it looked at CCTV footage as part of its investigation, but its said the 
footage isnt available for me to view. Whilst this is unfortunate, given the weight of other 
evidence Ive seen, primarily the technical evidence relating to the ATM Miss E used, and 
the testimonies provided by Miss E and branch staff, I dont consider having sight of the 
CCTV footage to be of significance to my review. 
Santanders technical reports and complaint records support Miss Es testimony in so far as 
the process she went through in trying to make the deposit and the action she took 
immediately afterwards. In particular, the reports show that Miss E tried to make the deposit 
and that the notes were returned to her. But the reports show the ATM counted 39 £10 notes 
and four £20 notes (£470)  so not the £800 Miss E contends she tried to deposit. 
The records show that this deposit attempt experienced a technical error, and the cash was 
returned to Miss E. And I can see evidence to suggest a note(s) was trapped in the shutter  
which supports Miss Es testimony in relation to the torn £10 note. 
So, whilst the technical evidence corroborates some of what Miss E has said in relation to 
the deposit itself, the crux of this complaint rests on the amount Miss E says she deposited. 
Therefore, my focus has been on whether there is any technical evidence to show that £800 
was deposited by Miss E and that £190 has been unaccounted for. 
Firstly, as Ive said above, the ATM only counted £470, and the reports show that the cash 
was returned when the deposit failed. I appreciate Miss E has consistently maintained she 
tried to deposit £800  and only got back £600. But unfortunately, that isnt supported by the 
technical evidence  which in cases such as this, is seen as more persuasive than a 
customers testimony. Here weve only got Miss Es word that she tried to deposit £800  
and shes been unable to substantiate the source of the funds or provide evidence of what 
the funds were intended for. 
Reports showing an ATMs activity is helpful in cases like this. But Ive looked to see if 
theres any evidence to support an accounting discrepancy with the ATM used by Miss E 
that matches the disputed £190. I can see from the information provided by Santander that 
on 26 April 2023 the ATM balanced. The records also show the ATM balanced in the days 
immediately after Miss Es attempted deposit. 
Santander has also provided information about the deposits made using the ATM from 
09.37am on 26 April 2023 up until the funds were cleared at 09.01am on 27 April 2023. And 
theres no reference to any cash being deposited by Miss E. This is also evident from her 
bank statement. The total money deposited, and the total banked for the period in question, 
also matches. This indicates that when the money deposited in the ATM was counted, it 
matched what was collected and deposited. In other words, no amount matching the 
disputed £190 was unaccounted for. 
Miss Es main point centres on what happened immediately after her attempted deposit. She 
says the staff member recovered her £200 from the ATM  kept hold of the cash and said it 
would be credited to her account the next day. Whilst I can understand how Miss E mightve interpreted this as she has, from looking at the surrounding circumstances, I think she was 
mistaken at thinking the cash taken from the ATM was hers. 
Santander doesnt dispute that a staff member removed cash from the ATM. And that this 
would be supported by the CCTV footage if it were available. But Santander has explained 
that this cash wasnt Miss Es. It said it was taken out of the reject bin  which I understand 
is part of the ATM where certain notes, which have been successfully deposited, are stored. 
I understand the importance of this point to Miss E and so Ive thought very carefully about 
what Santander has said here  and I dont think its explanation is unreasonable. Firstly, 
theres no evidence Miss E successfully deposited any money in the ATM. And secondly, if 
the staff member was sure the £200 belonged to Miss E, then I cant see why they wouldve 
retained it, and not just given it back to Miss E at the time. So, on balance, I dont believe the 
cash taken out of the ATM by the staff member had any bearing to Miss Es attempted 
deposit.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Santander to refund the £190 to Miss E.
This is a difficult message for me to give. But given the evidence I have and on the balance 
of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion. 
So, Im not going to tell Santander to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman