DRN-2938784
The complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim they made on their 
home insurance policy and then cancelled their policy. Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
While they were out of their home, Mr M and Ms S received a call from their daughter who 
suspected someone was trying to break into their house. Ms S called who she thought was 
their insurer at the time but found out the policy had expired. So, Ms M and Ms S took out a 
policy with AXA that same day.
Approximately two weeks later Mr M and Ms S called to make a claim for the damage 
caused by the break in. They said they thought the damage had occurred before taking out 
the policy with AXA, but said they werent aware of it until they got home.
AXA investigated the claim and declined it. It also decided to cancel Mr M and Ms Ss policy 
on the basis that theyd made a fraudulent claim. It thought the claim was fraudulent as Mr M 
and Ms S made it knowing it wasnt something they were entitled to. And it said they later 
changed their version of events  by saying they werent aware of the break in before taking 
out the policy - in an attempt to get the claim paid.
Mr M and Ms S complained to AXA. They didnt think it was fair the policy was cancelled and 
didnt think theyd acted in anyway fraudulently and had just misunderstood the questions 
they were asked. AXA didnt change its stance. So, Mr M and Ms S brought their complaint 
to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr M and Ms Ss complaint. She thought it was fair that 
AXA decline the claim as it was clear the event  the break in  happened before Mr M and 
Ms S were insured with AXA. Ultimately, she also thought it was fair AXA cancel the policy.
Mr M and Ms S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand Mr M and Ms S wont be 
happy with this outcome. Ill explain my reasoning.
Whats not in dispute here is that the incident did happen before Mr M and Ms S took out 
their policy with AXA. Therefore, Im satisfied AXAs decision to decline their claim is fair. At 
the time the damage being claimed for occurred, Mr M and Ms S werent insured with AXA, 
so AXA doesnt need to pay for this damage.
What is in dispute is whether its fair for AXA to subsequently cancel the policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr M and Ms Ss policy with AXA says AXA can cancel the 
policy for a number of reasons. The relevant reason in this case relates to Fraudulent 
Claims
Under the Fraudulent claims section of the policy. AXA says:
If you or anyone acting for you:
knowingly provides information to us as part of your application for your policy that is 
not true and complete to the best of your knowledge and belief; or
knowingly makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim under your policy; or
knowingly makes a false statement in support of a claim; or 
submits a knowingly false or forged document in support of a claim; or
makes a claim for any loss or damage caused by your wilful act or caused with your 
agreement, knowledge or collusion.
THEN:
we may prosecute fraudulent claimants;
we may make the policy void from the date of the fraudulent act;
we will not pay any fraudulent claims;
we will be entitled to recover from you the amount of any fraudulent claim already 
paid under your policy since the start date;
we may not return any premium paid by you for the policy;
we may inform the Police of the circumstances.
AXA thinks this term applies for two reasons. The first being that it thinks Mr M and Ms S 
knowingly made a claim they knew they werent entitled to be paid on  because the event 
occurred before they were insured. The second being that Ms S subsequently knowingly 
made a false statement in support of that claim.
Ive seen that Ms S initially explained that they called and set up the policy after the break in. 
Ms S says she called who she thought was her home insurer to report the break in. Shes 
said after she found out she wasnt insured she took out this policy online with AXA. When 
Ms S calls to make the claim two weeks later, she doesnt mention that the break in 
happened before the policy was taken out. From the evidence Ive been provided I think its 
more likely than not that Mr M and Ms S made this claim knowing they werent insured for 
the damage caused by the break in  because it happened before they were insured with 
AXA.
Ive also seen that Ms S later changes her version of events and explains that when she took 
the policy out with AXA she didnt know of the break in. She said she received a message 
from her daughter and immediately called her. She said she found her daughter was with the 
police and safe. She said it was at this point she called her previous insurer to see if she was 
covered. But Ms S she didnt know theres been a break in or that any damage had occurred 
 she said she was just calling to see if she was insured. Ms S Said she took out the policy 
with AXA to make sure she was insured and didnt take it out thinking shed need to make a 
claim on it.
From everything Ive seen I think its more likely than not that when Mr M and Ms S took out 
this policy, they took it out knowing they may need to claim on it. I appreciate Mr M and Ms S 
has said they didnt fully understand the questions they were asked but I think the fact Ms S 
called their previous insurer is a clear indication that they knew something happened that 
they may have needed to claim for. Ms Ss first version of events is much more persuasive. I 
find it unlikely Ms S didnt know of a break in after speaking with her daughter considering the police were present. And so Im satisfied AXA is acting fairly by deeming the change in 
version of events as a false statement in support of a claim.
It follows that I think AXAs decision to cancel Mr M and Ms Ss from the start date policy 
(effectively making it void) was done so in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And Im satisfied that that decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman