DRN-4319917
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained GE Money Consumer Lending Limited didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Although Mr and Mrs W are represented in their complaint by a third party, I will refer to them 
throughout for ease.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought timeshare points in 2008 from a company Ill call C. The total cost of 
the timeshare points was £30,711 and they partly paid for it by taking a loan with GE Money, 
which was set to run for 15 years at nearly £415 a month.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs W submitted a letter of claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 that the sale had been misrepresented. Alongside that claim, Mr and Mrs Ws 
representatives supplied a longer document setting out wider claims and concerns, including 
one made under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that they were subject to an 
unfair relationship. They wanted the cost of their purchase refunded, along with costs.
GE Money reviewed their section 75 claim and told Mr and Mrs W they believed theyd 
brought their complaint too late. They also highlighted other aspects which they believed 
meant they didnt need to review the claim at all.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to the ombudsman service.
In March 2021 our investigator reviewed the complaint and agreed it was reasonable that 
GE Money felt they didnt need to look at the claims as a court would be likely to consider 
these were made out of time under the Limitation Act.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and have asked an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint. They specifically confirmed, through their representatives that their financial debt 
remained outstanding until both 2014 and 2017 despite it being noted the finance agreement 
came to an end in March 2011.
I completed a provisional decision on 24 July 2023 explaining why I wasnt upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs W or GE Money provided any further comments. I now have all I need to 
make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. The 
wording that follows explains this.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Ive considered the claims that were made to GE Money, both explicitly in the letter of claim, 
but also in the longer document. Ive then considered the answers to those claims and, 
where appropriate, Ive considered the Limitation Act 1980.
Section 75/75A claims
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr and 
Mrs W paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the 
creditor can also be held responsible. 
Financial limits, however, apply to section 75. The purchase price must not exceed £30,000. 
In Mr and Mrs Ws case, there is no dispute that the purchase price was £30,711. So as 
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives accept, section 75 does not apply to their claim for 
misrepresentation. 
In their letter of claim, Mr and Mrs Ws representative said the claim was made under 
section.75 and/or section 75A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75A is similar to 
section 75, in that it makes a creditor jointly liable for certain breaches of contract where the 
purchase price is above £30,000. But I dont think this section assists Mr and Mrs W. I say 
this because that provision didnt come into force until 2011, whereas their loan was taken 
out in 2008, and I cant see it was intended to have retrospective effect. But, even if it did 
apply, I dont think it would lead to a successful claim. That is because Mr and Mrs Ws 
representatives have pointed to a number of potential breaches of the timeshare agreement, 
including a number of breaches of implied terms. But all of the alleged breaches were due to 
the nature of the timeshare itself and related to how the businesses involved in its operation 
were set up. Those were inherent to the timeshare from its inception, so any breach would 
have taken place at the time the timeshare was taken out. The limitation period for a breach 
of contract claim is six years from the date of breach. Any breach would have been in August 
2008 so the timescale would have expired in 2014. No claim was made until 2017, so I think 
it was made too late and GE Money had a defence to this under the Limitation Act 1980.
Section 56 claims
Our investigator considered a claim made under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. That provision, in a case like this, imputes an agency relationship between a supplier 
(C) and a creditor (GE Money), so that things said or done by C were done in its own right, 
but also on behalf of GE Money. But I dont think that provision creates a cause of action in 
its own right, nor does it mean GE Money could be liable for a freestanding legal claim for 
misrepresentation as I dont think C was alleged to make any false representations about the 
loan agreement. But again, even if a claim could be made under section 56, I think it would 
have been made too late. 
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation 
cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs W into the contract for the 
purchase of the points were made on or before 11 August 2008. They did not however raise any complaint with GE Money until April 2017 at the earliest, just under nine years later. I 
think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against C for 
misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
Section 140A claims
GE Money stated we couldnt consider any claim under section 140A of the Act. Whilst I 
agree Mr and Mrs Ws original representatives didnt specifically refer to section 140A in their 
letter of claim, they did clearly refer to issues arising from an unfair relationship which do fall 
under section 140A in their longer claim documentation. Whilst a lot of this was generic and 
didnt apply to Mr and Mrs W directly, there was an allegation that Mr and Mrs W had an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship with GE Money. Our service isnt a court and we look into 
the substance of complaints, not the way they are set out  we dont require complainants to 
be specific about the law when they refer complaints.
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, Mr and Mrs W seeks restitution of sums paid 
under the loan agreement, as well as damages and costs.  
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In this case that was no later than 
March 2011 when the loan account was closed, and the finance agreement came to an end. 
Again, I think that it was reasonable for GE Money to conclude that a court would be unlikely 
to entertain such a claim and to decline it.
Can the time to being claims be extended?
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say that limitation periods dont strictly apply here, because 
the relevant time limit is extended where the claimant did not know they had a cause of 
action or where fraud is involved. 
I do not accept that the general time limit is extended where a claimant does not know they 
have cause for complaint. That can be the case in negligence claims  for example, where 
the consequences of negligence do not become apparent for many years  but the claim 
here is that C misrepresented a contract, not that it was negligent (see Thomas v. Taylor 
Wimpey Developments [2019] EWHC 1134 (TCC).
Ive also been asked to look at section 32 of the Limitation Act 1980. That provision means 
that in some instances where the action is based on the fraud of the defendant or a fact 
relevant to the right of action has been deliberately concealed from the claimant by the 
defendant, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud of 
concealment (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence).
Its been said that the timeshare suppliers corporate structure amounts to a fraud for several 
reasons. But I cant see what the alleged thing was that was hidden from Mr and Mrs W 
which means they are victims of a fraud. From what Ive seen, the timeshare operated in the 
way intended. Different parts of the corporate structure took payment and supplied services, 
but that doesnt mean there was some sort of fraud. Similarly, I cant see what the false 
statements of fact are that it was alleged could give rise to a claim for fraudulent 
misrepresentation. 
I also cant see how the allegations made mean that facts were concealed from Mr and Mrs W that could be viewed as essential elements of their causes of action. And I cant see 
what facts, if any, were deliberately concealed from Mr and Mrs W in any event. So I dont 
think there is any reason a court would extend the time to bring these claims
Having considered all the evidence presented to our service, I wont be asking GE Money to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against 
GE Money Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman