DRN-4204890
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers 
limited (Chase de Vere) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension plan (PPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr B approached Chase de Vere around August 2020 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. 
Chase de Vere completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives. It ascertained the following circumstances for Mr B:
He was aged 57, married with no other financial dependents
Hed been made redundant in August 2020 and wanted to review his pensions as he 
didnt intend to return to work
He had an outstanding mortgage balance of £1,824 
On 1 January 2021 he would receive benefits from another DB scheme paying a tax-
free cash (TFC) lump sum around £49,000 and annual income around £12,000 
(reducing to around £7,000 at age 65)
After January 2021 he would have around a £5,000 deficit in his annual household 
budget
He had around £100,000 in other savings and ISAs
He had a group personal pension with a fund around £93,000
Mr B sought advice on a further DB scheme that he had no immediate intention to take 
benefits from. That DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value of £173,306. At age 65 
it would provide an annual income around £6,374. But would pay reduced benefits of £4,205 
a year immediately. 
Chase se Vere also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it categorised 
as C  on a scale that had A as lowest and F as the highest attitudes to risk. It defined this 
risk level as Mr B understanding that he would have to take some investment risks to meet 
long term goals. It also meant that Chase de Vere considered Mr B to be someone who had 
limited experience of investments but that could potentially suffer some loss. 
On 16 December 2020, Chase de Vere advised Mr B to transfer his DB pension benefits into 
a PPP. It then issued Mr B a further recommendation about how he should invest his 
personal pension fund on 29 December 2020. The suitability report said that a transfer of the 
DB pension was suitable for the following reasons:
Flexibility  able to access benefits as and when required in the future in line with 
objectives.
Higher Tax-Free Cash  although not planning on taking tax-free cash at the outset 
would have the option to access a larger amount.
Death Benefits  existing scheme provided 50% spouse pension but would not allow 
Mr B to leave any of his pension to his son on his death.
Mr B complained to Chase de Vere about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
thought hed missed out on guaranteed benefits that were part of his DB scheme.
Chase de Vere didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it had carried out a full analysis 
and weighed up the advantages and disadvantages of a transfer. It thought Mr B was in a 
fully informed position prior to the transfer.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. An investigator looked into what happened and 
thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He explained why he thought that the 
transfer was likely to leave Mr B with lower overall benefits in retirement by transferring. He 
considered other reasons that might have made the transfer in Mr Bs best interests in spite 
of that. But didnt agree that Mr B needed the increased flexibility or different death benefits 
enough to warrant a transfer that was otherwise financially unviable. He suggested what he 
thought Chase de Vere should do to put things right. 
Chase de Vere disagreed, saying that Mr Bs DB pension was, to all intents and purposes 
surplus, and could serve in meeting other specific needs, in particular flexibility, and death 
benefits for his wife and son. It explained that Mr B had told them in its fact-find that he 
didnt want to take out life insurance at that time. It asked for the case to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Chase de Vere's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Chase de 
Vere should have only recommended a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Chase de Vere obtained a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing, amongst other things, how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each 
year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). The transfer 
value comparator also showed that it would cost Mr B £91,236 more than his CETV in order 
to purchase benefits equivalent to those he was giving up. Indicating that the CETV didnt 
represent very good value.
Mr B was 57 at the time of the advice. He had recently been made redundant and Chase de 
Veres report referred to him as already being retired. But also that he had no intention of 
taking the benefits available to him through this pension scheme ahead of its normal 
retirement age of 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Bs benefits at age 65 was 8.2% 
if he took a full pension and 7.7% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.4% per year for around seven years to normal retirement age. Whilst this is higher 
than the figure of 2.5% incorrectly quoted by the investigator I dont consider that it makes a 
material difference to the outcome. This is because a likely return of 3.4% a year would still 
have left Mr B well short of the fund size needed to be able to equal the benefits hed have 
been giving up. Ive also considered that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr B 
giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
7.7%, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme 
at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
For this reason a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt likely to result in Mr B ending up with 
benefits as valuable as those he was giving up. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as Chase de Vere has argued in this case. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needsI dont think Mr B required flexibility at the time of advice. This is because, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, Mr B didnt express any indication of taking his TFC or flexible benefits 
from this pension earlier than the normal scheme retirement age. The fact-find recorded that 
he was already retired. But it also recorded that Mr B would have another DB pension 
scheme that would start to pay him from 1 January 2021. Including a tax free sum.
It's likely that Mr B needed to supplement the DB pension hed be in receipt of from January 
2001 until his state pension age of 66. But Mr B had other savings as well as a further TFC 
lump sum from the scheme he was taking benefits from in January 2021. The availability of 
other savings to make up for his shortfall in income are why I dont think he had an urgent 
need for flexible income from the DB scheme that Chase de Vere were considering. And 
even if it was, he also had over £90,000 in a defined contribution pension plan that he could 
take flexibly without giving up any guaranteed defined benefits.
So, Im satisfied Mr B could have met his income needs and not needed to access the 
benefits in his remaining DB scheme until 65. By which time the combined benefits that Mr B 
was in receipt of would have been more than enough for him to meet his stated target 
retirement income. 
Chase de Vere explained in its suitability report that part of the justification for 
recommending a transfer was the increased available TFC. That may have been a 
consequence of the transfer, but there was no identifiable reason that Mr B wanted or 
needed that increased TFC. He had no significant debts to clear and hadnt made Chase de 
Vere aware of any plans that would require increased TFC. So this didnt make this 
financially unviable transfer in Mr Bs best interests. I dont think the potential for increased 
TFC was a persuasive reason to justify this transfer either.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Chase de Vere explored to what 
extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for potentially 
higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr B predeceased her. I dont think Chase de Vere made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. So I dont think that Chase de Vere should have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his financial security in 
retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Chase de Vere shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that Chase de 
Vere say that Mr B didnt want life insurance. But Chase de Vere ought to have explored all 
of Mr Bs options, before discounting something based on Mr Bs initial opinion. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. Especially when 
considering that Mr B already had over £90,000 in a defined contribution pension scheme 
with no immediate need to take benefits from it. I think it would have been more suitable to 
have advised Mr B to use his DB scheme in its most valuable way and potentially leave the 
DC scheme as lump sum death benefits if that was important to him. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But Chase 
de Vere wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted when he 
approached them. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
I understand that Chase de Vere has told us that this DB scheme was surplus to Mr Bs 
requirements. But I disagree. Chase de Vere knew that the DB pension that Mr B would be 
in receipt of from January 2021 would reduce the amount payable when he reached age 65. 
Meaning that the DB scheme it was advising on was not surplus to requirements. It was 
highly likely to be needed to make up for that drop in income at age 65. And the most 
valuable way for it to do that would have been to have advised Mr B not to transfer it. 
So, I think Chase de Vere shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against Chase de 
Vere's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Chase de Veres advice. I say this because Mr B 
was an inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
an important part of Mr Bs retirement provision. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise hed 
sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
Chase de Vere had explained that Mr B could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr B 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Chase de Vere should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. Chase de Vere must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Chase de Vere should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Chase de Veres offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Chase de 
Vere may make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise be paid.. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £375,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £375,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £375,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £375,000, I also recommend that 
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
If payment of compensation is not made within 90 days of Chase de Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers limited receiving Mr Bs acceptance of my final decision, interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Chase de Vere Independent Financial 
Advisers limited deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been 
taken off. Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman