DRN-2329470
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about MS Amlin Insurance SEs decision not to pay out for his damaged 
boat claim under his marine insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R made a claim after his boat suffered damage when cables got entangled around his 
propellers. Mr R provided initial cost estimates and Amlin agreed to authorise the work. This 
was on the basis that if during the repair further problems were uncovered the work stopped 
and Amlin were updated. When the costs then as Amlin put it significantly increased it 
decided to appoint a surveyor and an engineer as experts to review the damage and validate 
the claim.
These expert reports said the damage to the outdrive wasnt due to damage caused by 
cables. Instead Amlin now said the damage had been caused by wear and tear and a lack of 
servicing and maintenance. As this fell within the policy exclusion Amlin now declined the 
whole claim. Mr R said there had been unreasonable delays from Amlin throughout his claim 
too. Unhappy with this he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted Amlins point that the failure of 
the boat was due to the condition of its parts. Our investigator felt although the incident 
occurred the cable wasnt shown to be the main cause of the damage, it just highlighted 
existing damage and worn parts in line with what Amlin said. She said Amlin had acted 
reasonably when it declined the claim. In terms of the timescales and any delays our 
investigator didnt consider that Amlin had caused any delays in handling the claim.
Mr R remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amlins expert inspections of the boat referred to the condition as poor and said a different 
engine had been fitted at some point although it didnt appear to have been done 
professionally. Reports showed images and stated that the outdrive required renovation. 
Quite a lot of focus was placed on the outdrive. A report highlighted that the vertical input 
drive shaft had sheared, and the input pinion gear had a number of damaged teeth. It also 
said, small sections of the gear teeth were missing at the outer edges of the input pinion 
gear.
On closer inspection Amlins expert said, the lower gear box had been running with 
incorrect gear tooth mesh.A correctly set up bevel gear tooth mesh will place the 
mating/driving faces in about the centre of the gear tooth and along about 90% of its contact 
length. The expert finding was the lower gear box, gear teeth settings and engagement 
patterns were incorrect, and had been for some time, as the contact pattern was embedded 
in the gear teeth. So, the expert report concluded As inspected the tips of the lower unit 
gear teeth were transmitting the load to the propellers and in these conditions the eventual 
failure of the gear teeth at their tips was inevitable. I understand that Mr R disputes this, but 
I think this evidence is clear and persuasive.
The experts said there was no sign of any accident related damage referring back to Mr Rs 
original claim there might have been expected some damage or abrasion to the outdrive 
cavitation plate, and steering fin, situated directly above the propellers. No damage was 
apparent to the steering fin, and no obvious damage was seen on the underside of the 
cavitation plate, save for the general lack of paint, constant with the remainder of the 
underwater unit.
In conclusion there was an acceptance the accident claimed for is likely to have happened, 
but The event described may have accelerated the detachment of the already failing gear 
teeth, but cannot be considered as the primary cause of the outdrive failure. In terms of 
expert evidence, I find this persuasive.
Experts V on behalf of Mr R said:
it is very clear that the unit has struck an underwater object. V also said this has caused 
the propellers to lock up whilst the engine still trying to rotate, and has caused the following 
damage.
1. Hub sheering in the stainless steel propellers
2. Snapped vertical shaft
3. Buckled Drive shaft (primary prop shaft)
4. Damaged Bearings
There was other damage found to the unit however this damage was corrosion related and 
not caused by the impact, but also has not contributed to the damage of this report. The 
drive was simply ready for as good strip service and refresh of shimming etc.
The lower pinion gear was breaking down but again has not caused any damage as listed 
above. This report is simply that caused by the impact of the underwater collision.
Mr R has said he feels this evidence outweighs that of the surveyor and engineer appointed 
by Amlin. He also said as Amlin had originally agreed to the initial repair it should still deal 
with his claim.
In response to that Amlin said that its expert evidence showed the damage wasnt accidental 
damage covered by the policy. It said the repairs from the first invoice that it had agreed to 
hadnt been done and had never been invoiced for. It said based on the evidence the policy 
exclusion for wear and tear now applied.
The policy exclusion said:
no claim shall be allowed in respect of:
(d) wear and tear, gradual deterioration, lack of reasonable maintenance, mechanical
derangement,
So, based on the later evidence Amlin said it didnt need to pay for the initial acceptance of 
the claim.
I accept what Amlin has said here. I think the evidence shows the damage wasnt covered 
by the policy and so I think it acted fairly and reasonably when it applied the exclusion and 
declined the claim. I dont think the evidence from V is as strong or as clear and detailed as 
from Amlins surveyor and engineer.Its slightly unclear about how the chain of events unfolded regarding a further inspection of 
the propellers, and how much damage the propellers had suffered. Amlin did say it would 
meet the expense of sending the propellers for survey. It does appear after this some 
breakdown occurred in communication between the parties. But ultimately, Mr R has 
replaced the propellers for less than the policy excess. So, I dont think there is a need to 
comment further on this point or make a finding.
Mr R was also unhappy about the time taken by Amlin in dealing with the claim. But from the 
timescales Ive seen the process took only a matter of weeks. So, I dont think theres been 
any lengthy delays caused by Amlin or its representatives. 
Mr R has referred to issuing legal proceedings against Amlin via his barrister. I can confirm if 
Mr R chooses not to accept my decision, he is perfectly entitled to take such action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against MS Amlin Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman