DRN-1699432
The complaint
Miss B complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited wrongly settled another drivers fraudulent 
claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B had a car insurance policy with Tesco. In late November 2018, Miss B was involved 
in an incident. She entered a roundabout and was hit from the side by the third-party vehicle 
causing significant damage to her car. When the third-party provided their insurance details, 
Miss B was concerned that the insurance policy was in the name of a woman, but it was a 
man who was driving at the time of the incident. So, she immediately contacted Tesco to let 
them know.
Tesco acknowledged Miss Bs concerns and said they would look into who was driving the 
third-party car at the time of the incident as part of their investigation. Miss B then registered 
a claim against her policy for the replacement of her car. 
A month later, Miss B received a letter from the third-partys solicitor stating that the woman 
driver of the vehicle was making a personal injury claim for injuries caused by the incident. 
Miss B contacted Tesco again to explain that the third-party driver had been a man  not a 
woman as was being claimed. She also provided the description of the incident again and 
the person who had been driving again for Tesco to investigate.
In May 2019, when Miss B hadnt received an update from Tesco, she called them to see if 
they had any further information about what she felt was a fraudulent claim. Tesco said 
theyd settled several personal injury claims for three women whod been in the car at the 
time of the incident and the claim was now closed. Miss B didnt think this was fair, so she 
raised a complaint.
Tesco didnt uphold the complaint. They said they didnt have enough evidence to say that 
fraud had taken place, and the three personal injury claims didnt impact Miss Bs claim as it 
had already been settled as a fault claim against her. Miss B didnt agree so she asked this 
service to look in-to her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt that Tesco had acted 
reasonably based on the information available to them. He said Tesco had made enquiries 
about the driver of the third-party car and had been told there had been a male passenger in 
the car, but an insured female was driving. And because there was no evidence to suggest 
that wasnt the case, theyd settled the claims under the policy terms. He also felt Tesco had 
kept Miss B sufficiently updated throughout the claim. 
Miss B didnt agree. She felt Tesco hadnt followed up on the information shed given them 
and had taken the opportunity away from her to obtain the proof she needed to validate her 
version of events. So, she asked for an ombudsman to look into her complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 2020. I said the following:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm thinking of coming to 
a different outcome to our investigator. I'll explain why.
Claim outcome and disputed third-party driver 
Miss B initially said that she wasnt aware the claim was being settled against her until she 
was told about the personal injury claims. However, I can see from Tescos case notes that 
they spoke to Miss B on the phone in early December 2018 and confirmed that the claim 
would be settled against her. They also confirmed the reasons for this based on what shed 
told them when shed initially notified them of the incident. Ive looked at the address the 
letter was sent to, and I can see its the same one we have on file for Miss B. I havent seen 
any evidence that suggests Miss B was having issues with her post, so I think its likely she 
did receive the letter from Tesco saying the claim was being settled against her - although I 
appreciate due to the time thats passed she may not remember receiving this.
I recognise Miss Bs frustration that the claim was settled against her. However, Ive seen 
that Tesco explained their rational for this was as follows, "As the collision has happened on 
a roundabout and the other vehicle was coming from your right, we feel we cannot defend 
the matter. Whilst we note your comments regarding the other driver's driving, this cannot be 
proven and we can only base our decision on the evidence". My role isnt to comment on 
how an insurer has settled a claim, only to decide if theyve acted reasonably based on the 
information available to them. And based on Miss Bs initial acceptance of liability I think they 
have.
Miss B has told us although she was disappointed with the outcome of her insurance claim 
her main complaint is that she told Tesco the vehicle was being driven by a male who wasnt 
the policy holder. And despite assurances from Tesco they didnt investigate this further until 
it was too late, and she could no longer obtain the evidence needed to support her version of 
events.
Tesco have confirmed that they did make enquiries about the third party driver, and Ive 
seen their records and correspondence which confirms this is the case. However, this was 
several months later. I acknowledge that the third-party solicitors confirmed it was the policy 
holder driving, and it was difficult for Tesco to challenge this without any evidence. But I think 
if theyd investigated this earlier when Miss B had made them aware of her concerns that 
some evidence may have been available to them.    
Ive seen that Miss B raised her concerns on several occasions shortly after the incident took 
place when it was possible external evidence may have been available. Its difficult for me to 
conclude what evidence Miss B may have been able to provide which would have 
corroborated her version of events. However, I think it was reasonable of Miss B to believe 
that when Tesco said they would investigate her concerns that they would do so. I also think 
it would have been reasonable for Miss B to think if Tesco needed her to provide the 
evidence  rather than them to source it  that they would have contacted her and requested 
this.
I think Tescos actions meant Miss B lost the opportunity to obtain the evidence she says 
would have shown both the driver, and the poor driving - which she believes caused the 
incident. Given the importance of the missing evidence to Miss B, and that shed made 
Tesco aware of her concerns from the very first call when shed notified them of the incident 
I dont think they did enough to investigate on her behalf. 
I recognise that Tesco felt this wouldnt have changed the outcome of the claim, as Miss B 
had initially admitted liability. But I think they had an obligation to at least see if anything was available as Miss B was adamant the circumstances of the incident were suspicious, and if 
evidence had been available she may not be liable for the claim. So I feel Tesco should pay 
Miss B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by their actions.  
Personal injury claims
Miss B has expressed her frustration that Tesco agreed to pay the personal injury claims for 
three of the individuals who were travelling in the third party vehicle. I understand Miss B 
feels strongly about this, but regardless of who was driving the third party vehicle at the time 
of the incident, three of the people travelling in that car said they were injured because of it. 
I've seen Tesco's case records which show that each individual needed medical treatment 
in-line with this type of incident and therefore were entitled to claim for their injuries. Tesco 
also confirmed that none of the individuals had previously made a claim for this type of 
injury, so they couldn't dispute their injuries had been caused as a result of this incident. As 
Miss B had accepted liability when she'd registered the incident, and Tesco couldn't prove 
that fraud had taken place they had to settle the claims when they did. And I think it was 
reasonable for them to do this based on the information available.  
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Miss B, and Id like to reassure her that Ive 
carefully read all the information thats been provided. I understand why Miss B feels 
strongly about whats happened and I realise this wont be the outcome she was hoping for 
as she wanted her £600 excess refunded. But I dont think thats reasonable in these 
circumstances. 
I invited Miss B and Tesco to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Miss B didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Tesco disagreed with my decision. They said they had undertaken various investigations to 
establish what had happened at the time of the incident, and they weren't sure what else 
they could have done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Tesco argue that as part of their investigation they established that there were no witnesses, 
and there wasn't any CCTV or dash-cam footage to be considered. They also noted that the 
police didn't attend. Tesco also reiterated at that they did ask the third party solicitor who 
was driving the other vehicle at the time of the incident, and the solicitor responded to 
say their insured said she was the driver. So they didn't think they could do anything more.   
But I don't agree. As I said in my provisional decision, I am aware that Tesco carried out 
some investigations into the circumstances of the claim. However, what I feel is the crux of 
the complaint is the timing of those investigations, and I think Tesco could've done more 
when Miss B initially contacted them. I say this because I think they could've either looked 
into Miss B concerns directly at the time, or given her the opportunity to provide the evidence 
they said they would have needed to support her version of events. 
Putting things right
As I've reached the same conclusion as in my provisional decision, Tesco Underwriting 
Limited must do the following:Pay Miss B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited must follow the instructions I've set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman