DRN-3457928
The complaint
Miss L, who is represented by a third party, says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she 
paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by Studio Retail to Miss L. 
The account was opened in March 2020 with Miss L being given an initial credit limit of 
£150. This limit was increased to £200 in June 2020. Her account began going into arrears 
at the end of 2020.
Miss L says shes unhappy that Studio Retail allowed her to open an account and 
continued to increase her credit limit when she was only making minimum payments each 
month and was experiencing financial difficulty.
Based on the limited information she had about Miss Ls financial circumstances, our 
adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. He also thought that although Studio Retail hadnt necessarily carried out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before approving each credit limit 
increase, had it done so it would likely still have concluded that each credit limit increase 
was affordable. 
As Miss L didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Studio Retail says it acted as a responsible lender when opening  Miss Ls account and 
increasing her credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why he didnt think 
Studio Retail lent to Miss L irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with 
Miss L, so as to see if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ls credit 
limits.
Having reviewed the complaint myself, including the account history, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator and so I dont consider that Miss L lost out due to Studio Retails 
actions in relation to her account. I will explain why. 
When Miss L opened her account in March 2020, Studio Retail says there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into 
account the relatively low opening credit limit of £150 she was given, I dont think there is 
enough to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved 
the account at this point. I say this having noted that Miss L had an account default in 2017 
and had also missed a payment on another account a month before. It also doesnt look as if 
Studio Retail verified the details she gave about her income, and didnt check her 
expenditure. Had it done this it may have helped it begin to build a picture of her financial 
circumstances. 
Miss L has only been able to give us limited information about her financial situation at the 
time. So we dont know what proportionate checks carried out by Studio Retail would have 
shown.
When Studio Retail gave Miss L an increased credit limit in June 2020, I agree with our 
adjudicator that it should have requested details of Miss Ls income, regular expenditure 
and existing debt owing elsewhere. Overall, however, our adjudicator thought there wasnt 
enough to show that Miss L was experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that 
Studio Retail shouldnt have increased her credit limit at this time. Whilst Miss L had arrears 
with one particular account held elsewhere, from what weve seen her other borrowing was 
being managed without particular problems. Also, having looked at the way Miss L was 
handling her account, I agree that it appeared to be affordable for her. Ive also seen that in 
March and April 2020 Miss L chose to make immediate payment via her account before 
making two purchases. 
From the limited information we have about Miss Ls financial situation at the time, I dont 
think theres enough for me to find that had Studio Retail carried out additional 
proportionate checks, it would have found this credit limit increase to be unsustainable. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Studio Retails 
actions, first in opening the account and then in increasing Miss Ls credit, is likely to 
have caused Miss L to lose out. And Im not persuaded that further enquiries into 
Miss Ls circumstances would have led Studio Retail to conclude that it should have 
taken a course of action that was significantly different to what it did. 
So, although I dont think Studio Retails actions were necessarily appropriate in all 
respects, I dont make any award as I dont think Miss L was caused any loss as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman