DRN-1825861
The complaint
Miss Z complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited in relation to her claim made under a 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide 
an overview here. 
Miss Z has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by 
Fairmead. In December 2017 Miss Z contacted Fairmead as she was in dispute with her 
neighbour. The dispute centred on building work the neighbour was doing. Amongst other 
issues it involved a claim of adverse possession with respect to a strip of land and that the 
neighbour's building work amounted to a trespass on Miss Zs land.
The claim was assessed and in January 2018, it was agreed that Miss Zs solicitor A would 
represent her under the policy. A Barrister was instructed to give his opinion on the 
prospects of success for Miss Zs claim. He concluded that there werent reasonable 
prospects of Miss Z gaining ownership of the strip of land due to adverse possession. And 
that such a claim was unlikely to be proportionate. He also thought the trespass claim was 
unlikely to succeed. 
However, this opinion was later revised by the Barrister and Fairmead accepted there were 
prospects in relation to the trespass. However, the Barrister also said the most efficient way 
to resolve matters was through the Party Wall Act process. (This is a process involving 
surveyors to help resolve party wall disputes outside of court proceedings.)
Fairmead went on to withdraw cover from the claim. They explained that the policy provided 
no cover for Party Wall Act procedures. Miss Z disagreed. She said the funding she was 
seeking was for the legal process to make an application to a court in respect of the 
appointment of a third surveyor as a means to deal with the trespass. 
Fairmead maintained their position after Miss Z had made a complaint about this issue and 
the matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He felt Fairmeads decision was fair in the circumstances and didnt 
recommend that they needed to do more. As she disagrees, Miss Z has asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome and for essentially the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Miss Z, so Ill explain why. Miss Zs policy says We will pay your costs to pursue legal action directly arising from an 
event which causes or could cause physical damage to your home or any nuisance or 
trespass which affects or will affect your owning or living in your home. 
The term legal action is given a specific definition in the policy of The pursuit or defence of 
a civil or criminal action relating to an insured event, unless excluded elsewhere in this 
section. The legal action must take place in a court within the geographical limits. 
Terms such as this are common in legal expenses insurance and I dont think it is inherently 
unfair. Fairmead are setting out that cover is only available under the policy for certain 
insured events and that the associated legal action must take place in a court. 
Miss Zs own solicitor accepts that a claim to follow the party wall process isnt something 
the policy covers. Miss Z says the action she is seeking cover for is for an application to be 
made to a court for a declaration that a third-party wall surveyor should be appointed (and 
that this is to deal with the trespass). And as she believes that constitutes legal action, she 
thinks it should be covered. I can understand why Miss Z says this, but I dont agree.  
I appreciate that the resolution Miss Z is seeking is for the trespass to be resolved or 
removed. But at the time, the Barristers advice was that the party wall process was the best 
way to proceed. Miss Z may have been applying to a court for a declaration to appoint a 
surveyor. But I dont think Fairmead were being unfair when considering that that application 
was in furtherance of the party wall process  rather than in relation to the trespass itself. 
There wasnt an intention to present to a court a claim for trespass at that time. And as such, 
I dont think Fairmeads decision to withdraw funding was unreasonable.
As Miss Zs dispute continues, it may reach the point (subject to the terms and conditions) 
where her policy may be able to provide assistance. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
wont be asking Fairmead to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman