DRN-4183248
The complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) hasnt provided 
the service it should have in response to his data requests. 
What happened
Mr H referred a complaint to this service in October 2020 about his account being switched 
to paperless statements. A final decision was issued dated 6 January 2022 not upholding 
this complaint. Since then, Mr H has raised several further complaints about not being 
provided with the information he has requested, specifically the call that he believes took 
place around July 2020 and the information sent by AESEL to this service in response to his 
initial complaint. He has also raised complaints about the service AESEL has provided while 
he was trying to get access to his data.
AESEL issued a final response letter to Mr H in November 2022. It accepted that it hadnt 
always provided the service it should have and apologised for some technical issues with the 
calls and that call backs werent made. AESEL awarded Mr H £50 compensation for its poor 
service. It said that in response to Mr Hs Subject Access Request made on 6 September 
2022 two emails were sent which contained links and that a separate email containing 
instructions should have also been sent but there wasnt evidence this had been provided. 
This was followed up on 20 September when the instructions were provided by email and 
letter. It said that Mr Hs complaint was logged on 6 September and following that Mr H had 
raised further issues which had been added to the complaint and addressed in its final 
response. In regard to Mr Hs comment that he had already provided copies of his ID, 
AESEL said that it hadnt located the documents Mr H provided but having reviewed his 
request, AESEL felt that it had carried out sufficient checks to enable the data to be 
provided.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with AESELs response. He said he was missing information he had 
requested on multiple occasions.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Mr H wanted a copy of a call from 
July 2020 because he thought it could change the outcome of the final decision issued in 
January 2022. But he said this call had been noted as part of the previous case investigation 
and as a final decision had been issued, he couldnt consider issues covered by that 
decision. He noted the other issues Mr H raised that were addressed in AESELs final 
response letter dated 17 November 2022 (and within our jurisdiction) and thought the £50 
compensation offered was reasonable. Therefore, he didnt think AESEL was required to do 
anything further in resolution of this complaint.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He said he requested metadata on phone calls as 
AESEL had said it no longer had the calls. He said he had provided evidence that AESEL 
have this data and he thought our service was ignoring the fact that AESEL was refusing to 
provide evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H is very frustrated by the process and service he has experienced while 
trying to get copies of certain data from AESEL, specifically a call that took place around July 
2020. I understand that Mr H feels that had the July 2020 call been provided to our service 
as part of his initial complaint then the outcome would have been different. While I note 
Mr Hs comments and appreciate why he is frustrated, as a final decision has been issued 
on his previous complaint (in January 2022) I am not able to consider the issues covered by 
that decision.
This decision relates to the issues that were addressed in AESELs final response letter 
dated 17 November 2022. Mr H has subsequently raised a new complaint which, if he is 
unhappy with AESELs response, he could refer to this service for investigation. However, I 
want to be clear that the new complaint points arent covered in this decision.  
I have considered Mr Hs complaint about how his requests for his data have been handled, 
and I agree that AESEL could have provided a better service. This issue has been ongoing 
for an extended period and final responses have been issued and compensation paid. As 
noted above, this decision relates to the issues addressed in AESELs final response letter 
dated 17 November 2022. In this letter AESEL acknowledged that the were technical issues 
with Mr Hs calls on one day and that he hadnt received call backs when expected. It also 
noted that Mr H wasnt provided with the instructions he needed alongside the response to 
his Subject Access Request in early September but that these were provided on 20 
September. Given these issues, I think that it was right that AESEL apologised and said 
feedback would be provided. AESEL also awarded Mr H with £50 compensation. In this 
case, while I do not underestimate the frustration caused by the issues noted above, I find 
this to be a fair and reasonable response to the issues raised by Mr H.
The outstanding issue relates to Mr H not receiving the data to evidence the call of July 
2020. AESEL provided Mr H with calls from September 2020 but has said it doesnt retain 
calls indefinitely and no longer has the call Mr H is referring to. It isnt unreasonable that calls 
arent held indefinitely, and businesses are not required to do so. And so, I cannot say that 
AESEL is wrong to delete calls after a certain period of time. As the call is no longer 
available, Mr H has said he has requested the meta data to evidence the call. While 
requests for further evidence have been made evidence of this call hasnt been provided. I 
understand that this is and has been very frustrating for Mr H and I note his comments that 
he feels AESEL is withholding information. But we are an informal dispute resolution service 
and I make my decision based on the evidence provided and what I consider is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. In this case as evidence of the call hasnt been located, I cannot say 
that AESEL is withholding this call, nor can I say it has treated Mr H unfairly by not being 
able to provide this to him. Therefore, I am unable to uphold this part of his complaint. I note 
that Mr H has also referred his complaint to the Information Commissioners Office. 
In summary, it has already been explained that as a final decision was issued on Mr Hs 
initial complaint the merits of the issues covered in that decision cannot now be 
reconsidered. However, I have considered Mr Hs complaint in regard to the service he has 
received in response to his data requests. As noted above this hasnt always been as it 
should have been, but I think that the resolution provided in the final response letter dated 17 
November 2022 was a reasonable response to the issues raised at that time. 
Based on the above, I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman