DRN-2854544
The complaint
Mr I complains that Arrow Global Limited incorrectly sent him correspondence about a debt 
which had been previously been included in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). He 
says this resulted in him experiencing serious stress and led to consequential losses. He 
wants compensation.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to the parties. So Ill only summarise them.
Mr I was informed whilst at work that hed received correspondence at home, relating to an 
IVA. He took this to mean that he was being chased for a large debt that had been included 
in the IVA. And which was no longer his liability. He states that he was so upset that he left 
work for the day. And that this led to him losing pay and bonuses amounting to £512 which 
hed intended to use to clear his credit card balance.
Arrow acknowledged that it had made an error. It apologised and having initially offered 
£100 it increased that offer to £200. But it said that it wasnt willing to cover the loss of 
earnings.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Arrows increased offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr I didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr I would be upset at learning of correspondence which he thought meant 
he was being chased for a debt he no longer owed. And I accept that a reaction to bad news 
can vary between individuals.
As the underlying facts of the complaint arent in dispute, the main issue I need to deal with 
is the level of compensation.
I noted that in one of his replies to our investigator, Mr I mentioned that he felt Arrow should 
be punished for what hed been put through. Whilst I can see why he would feel this way, 
thats not the role of this service. Compensation is designed to provide some recompense for 
the customer. Not to be imposed as a penalty upon a business.
Also, where consequential losses are alleged to have been incurred, they must be shown to 
have arisen from the business error and be a foreseeable consequence of it.
Here the losses arise as result of Mr I leaving work, due to the upset that he says he felt 
when being informed of the correspondence.
I acknowledge that Mr I would feel upset at the information that he was given. But as I 
understand it, the correspondence didnt directly state that he still owed the debt or that he 
was being asked to pay it. So its fair to infer that Mr I wasnt given the full picture.
And I dont think that Arrow could reasonably be expected to know how Mr I would react. Still 
less that he would be at work and what the consequences of leaving for the day would have 
for him. 
I dont find that it would be fair and reasonable to require Arrow to pay any additional 
compensation for losses said to result from Mr Is employment situation.
I empathise with Mr I for the situation he experienced. But had he been aware of all the facts 
relating to the correspondence I think its likely his reaction wouldve been different. I also 
take into account that this was a single error and that Arrow clearly gave some thought to its 
response. It recognised by its increased offer that the upset experienced by Mr I was greater 
than it had first recognised.
In summary, I empathise with Mr I for the financial difficulties hes faced. And the upset he 
experienced at receiving this correspondence. But I find the offer made by Arrow to be fair 
and reasonable. For a single error, the sum is at the higher end of the range Id have been 
minded to award if it hadnt already been offered. Accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman