DRN-2533197
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited said it would cover the cost of alternative 
accommodation when he made a claim under his building warranty, but then later refused to 
do so.
What happened
 Mr S made a claim under his building warranty when he discovered his boiler and flue had 
been installed incorrectly. Amtrust accepted the claim as the defect was covered by the 
policy.
However, during the time Mr S didnt have a working boiler, he had no heating or hot water 
in his home. Because of this, he asked Amtrust to cover the cost of alternative 
accommodation, which was also a feature of the policy. Mr S says Amtrust initially agreed to 
do this, but then declined to offer any reimbursement for alternative accommodation, saying 
Mr Ss property was still habitable.
Mr S says while he was without heating and hot water for four months, he had to stay with a 
friend in a small flat. He says this caused him a great deal of inconvenience and so referred 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He concluded 
that a fair resolution to the complaint would be for Amtrust to reimburse any reasonable 
costs and expenses Mr S had incurred while he had no access to heating and hot water, and 
to pay Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset he had suffered as a result of Amtrusts failings.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome, explaining that he didnt have any costs or expenses to 
evidence as hed been staying with a friend while his property was without heating or hot 
water. However, he also said the inconvenience he had been put through was significant, 
since he was living in a small space and sleeping on a sofa. So, the complaint has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both parties are familiar with the background to this case. And both parties will be aware 
from my discussions with them that I thought, from the information available to me, Mr Ss 
inconvenience had been significant. 
I say this because the evidence shows Mr S was given the incorrect and misleading 
information that Amtrust would cover the cost of alternative accommodation. He then took 
time to search for suitable alternative accommodation but was subsequently told Amtrust 
wouldnt cover those costs because it believed Mr Ss property to be habitable. 
I agree with our investigator that in the circumstances, Mr Ss home was not habitable. He 
wouldve been without heating and hot water for several months, and although Amtrust 
suggested Mr S used a kettle to heat up water, for example for bathing, Mr S did not in fact 
have a bath in his property, so this suggestion was not reasonable. 
Given that this all happened during the pandemic, more care shouldve been taken regarding 
the suggestions that were being made, if Amtrust did indeed think Mr S could remain in his 
property. For example, Amtrust also suggested Mr S use a neighbours shower facility, whilst 
adhering to social distancing guidelines, but its questionable as to whether this wouldve 
been allowed under lockdown rules at the time. Mr S therefore ended up staying with a 
friend in very inconvenient conditions.
Taking into account the level of inconvenience that Mr S experienced, and looking at the 
policy wording, I think Amtrust shouldve offered to pay for alternative accommodation from 
the outset, and that the withdrawal of that offer caused Mr S a significant amount of trouble 
and upset. So I think Amtrust should pay Mr S £500 in recognition of this.
Putting things right
Amtrust should pay Mr S £500 compensation for trouble and upset.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman