DRN-2665815
The complaint
Mr C has complained that the settlement offer made by esure Insurance Limited (esure) 
regarding his stolen car under his motor insurance policy was too low.
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with esure at the relevant time. In May 2020, Mr Cs car 
was stolen. He made a claim against his policy and esure accepted the claim. His car was 
recovered but was beyond economic repair and was deemed to be a total loss.
Mr C was informed by esure that it considered the market value of his car to be £41,028, 
having taken an average figure from four standard on-line trade guides. It made an offer of 
£41,028 less his policy excess of £400. 
Mr C was unhappy with this amount and said that his car was worth more and the offer 
would not enable him to meet the outstanding amounts owed to the company which provided 
finance to enable Mr C to purchase the car. He felt that this was unfair. 
Mr C was concerned about the marked variations between the values provided by the four 
guides and thought that the two lower valuations should be disregarded. He therefore 
complained to esure, however esure didnt change its position. Mr C therefore referred his 
complaint to our service.
The first investigator obtained values from standard on-line motor guides but excluded one 
that doesnt provide historical values. The guides gave the following values; £44,850, 
£37,000 and £45,961. As esure hadnt provided copies of the values it initially obtained, the 
investigator disregarded the lowest valuation, which was out-of-kilter, with the remaining two 
valuations, averaging £45,405.50. This produced a difference of £4,377.50 which she 
considered esure should pay to Mr Cs finance company.
Following receipt of the investigators view, esure said that it didnt agree with the view. It 
was then able to produce copies of the original valuations from its engineer. This new 
information did not alter the view of the first investigator however.
A second investigator reviewed the case and came to a different view. He considered that, 
having now produced copies of the original valuations, the evidence showed that esure had 
acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its conclusion as to the market value of Mr Cs car. 
His view was that the amount esure offered was fair and reasonable and reflected the value 
of his car at the relevant time.
Mr C doesnt agree with the second Investigators view and the matter has therefore been 
referred to me in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether esure has valued Mr Cs car fairly. On balance, 
Im satisfied that esure has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its valuation of Mr Cs 
car, following the very unfortunate loss which hes suffered. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy state;
We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the total 
excess payable.
The definition of market value is given as; the amount you could reasonably have 
expected to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. 
Our assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar 
age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides. This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
Mr C said that as his car was a rarer model than the usual model and as the standard trade 
guides produced such a wide range of values, it would be fairer to discount to two lower 
values rather than average out the figure from across all four values. Mr C produced a large 
number of advertisements for similar model cars of higher mileage or greater age than his 
own, which he said all well exceeded an asking price of £40,000. He wished to have an 
explanation as to how the guide figures had been reached and what they took into account.
In esures calculations, the figure of £41,028 had been obtained using an average of the four 
values from standard trade guides which were: £44,460, £38,845, £36,993 and £43,787.
esure later explained that in relation to the trade guide that doesnt provide historical 
valuations, the figure should read £38,875 and it had made a typographical error in its final 
response letter to Mr C. It said that the average figure of £41,028 was correct throughout 
however. Ive seen the screen-shot evidence relied upon in esures final response letter in 
June 2020 and Im willing to accept this clarification.
As Ombudsman, my role is not to establish an exact valuation for Mr Cs car, but instead to 
look at whether the insurers offer was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The 
service generally assesses the market value of a vehicle, as the retail price which the 
consumer would have had to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer, 
immediately before the time of the damage or loss and this accords with Mr Cs policy terms.
Its not our practice to look into the algorithms used to carry out the trade-guide calculations 
and we generally accept the valuations given in guides as being reliable in arriving at a 
reasonable figure. These guides are based on research as to likely selling prices. The 
guides dont have access to actual retail selling prices but use advertised prices and auction 
prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been at the relevant time.
The values which the first investigator established were similar to the values provided by 
esure for the same guides in June 2020 and I therefore have no reason to doubt them. The 
additional valuation which esure had taken into account was in relation to the guide not 
providing historical valuations. This figure had been provided within a month of the accident 
and our service usually accepts that the figure is relevant for three months.
As Ive seen the screen-shots of the valuations used at the time, Im persuaded that esure 
took into account proper and relevant evidence to support its valuation and didnt act in an 
unfair or unreasonable manner in doing so.The trade guide without historical valuation was one of the values obtained at the time and 
as such its relevant evidence which I cant ignore. Its reasonably similar to the value 
provided by another trade guide and so I cant say that the figure is out-of-kilter with other 
values. Although there is a marked difference between the two highest values and the two 
lowest values, it isnt the case that there is one wildly different value within the guides. It was 
therefore fair and reasonable therefore for esure to have evened out all values across the 
range.
I have then gone on to look at whether there was an element of rarity value and I appreciate 
that Mr C had purchased a number of optional extras for his car. The first investigator
included these where possible when obtaining calculations. She noted that they only made a 
small difference to the value however. In the circumstances, again, I cant say that esure 
acted unreasonably when it carried out its calculations.
Ive also looked at all of the advertisements produced in evidence by Mr C. I appreciate his 
efforts and note that this does build a picture of potential current values although we dont 
usually find advertisements for similar vehicles which detail asking prices to be persuasive 
without other supporting evidence.
In conclusion, Mr Cs policy only requires esure to compensate for the market value of the 
vehicle immediately before the loss. As a service, we assess the market value to be the 
price which the consumer would have to pay for a comparable vehicle across the various 
markets immediately before the time of damage or loss. Assessing the value of a used car 
isnt an exact science and we generally find that the best evidence is found within the 
valuations given in motor trade guides, especially if they were provided close to the date of 
the loss, which is the case here.
I sympathise with Mr C for the distress suffered at the time of the incident. I know that he will 
also be disappointed by my decision. In all the circumstances however, I think esure paid Mr 
C a fair market value for his car and acted in line with what it needed to do under the policy 
terms.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman