DRN-4130938
The complaint
Mr B complains about Nationwide Building Societys decision to close his accounts. 
What happened
Mr B has told us he was a customer of Nationwide for over 30 years. Nationwide says Mr B 
has raised an unusually high number of complaints about the services it provides in recent 
years, including eight complaints in the 12 months leading up to August 2022. Mr Bs 
explained that whilst he has complained over the years, he was raising genuine concerns 
about the way Nationwide had administered his accounts. 
On 5 August 2022 Nationwide wrote to Mr B and said it had taken the decision to end its 
banking relationship, giving 60 days notice his accounts would be closed. 
Mr B went on to speak with agents at Nationwide and raised a complaint. Nationwide issued 
a final response on 15 August 2022 but didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made a mistake 
by taking the decision to close Mr Bs accounts. Nationwide says it had taken its decision in 
line with the relevant terms and conditions and with 60 days notice being given. 
The accounts were closed on 4 October 2022, in line with Nationwides notice to close letter. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to the investigator. The 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint as they felt Nationwide had acted in line with its 
account terms and that its decision was reasonable. Mr B asked to appeal and said hed 
been a customer of Nationwide for many years. Mr B added that he believes Nationwides 
decision was connected to a serious fraud claim he tried to make in 2017. Mr B explained his 
complaint about that issue remains unresolved and feels the reason provided by Nationwide 
was an excuse. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Bs explained that the complaints he has made to Nationwide whilst a customer were 
genuine and came about because of problems he experienced. Mr Bs added that he 
thought Nationwide would be willing to accept his feedback to help provide better service for 
customers. I dont doubt that Mr B made complaints he felt were genuine and that he found 
issue with Nationwide at times. 
Nationwide, in turn, has made the point that the number and frequency of Mr Bs complaints 
are unusually high. Ive reviewed Nationwides complaint records and I accept its view that 
Mr B made multiple complaints, including eight in the 12 months before it took the decision 
to close his account. And Nationwides records show Mr B made a high number of 
complaints in in the preceding years as well. As a result, Nationwide says that when Mr B 
raised a new complaint it took the decision to review the services provided. And that led to it 
writing to Mr B on 5 August 2022 to confirm it had taken the decision to end its banking 
relationship and close his accounts. 
Mr Bs told us that he feels the decision is related, in part at least, to a fraud claim he raised 
previously but was never resolved. Ive not seen anything in the supporting evidence that 
shows the fraud case formed part of Nationwides decision. Im satisfied the decision to 
review the relationship was taken on the basis of the number of complaints Mr B raised and 
concerns by Nationwide that it was unable to provide a level of service he found acceptable. 
As our investigator quoted in their findings to Mr B, the current account terms allow 
Nationwide to close it by giving 60 days notice. Ive also looked at the other account terms 
and conditions applicable to the different products Mr B held with Nationwide and they also 
allow it to close an account by giving 60 days notice.  Ive reviewed the notice to close letter 
and Im satisfied it gave 60 days notice and included information about how to open 
accounts elsewhere. So whilst I understand Mr B is unhappy at Nationwides decision, Im 
satisfied it was one Nationwide was able to take by giving the relevant notice. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr B on 5 August 2022 and closed his accounts on 4 October 2022. Im 
satisfied that the necessary notice period was given, in line with the relevant terms. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B but both he and Nationwide were able to take the decision 
to end the banking relationship. As Im satisfied Nationwide reasonably took the decision to 
review Mr Bs accounts and then fairly closed them in line with the account terms and 
condition, Im not telling to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
2 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman