DRN-3311869
The complaint
This complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) Mrs and Mr S were billed when 
they repaid their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. They say they, and 
third parties acting for them, were told several times they wouldnt have to pay an ERC. The 
complaint has been brought by both borrowers, but all of our dealings have been with Mr S.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr S and Halifax. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding any figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr S already had a mortgage with Halifax. It was on an interest rate product that 
meant an ERC was chargeable if the mortgage was paid off within a specified period. They 
decided to move home; by taking another mortgage with Halifax on the new house and 
porting the existing rate to the new mortgage, they anticipated not having to pay the ERC. 
However, Halifax wasnt willing to lend them the same amount on the new mortgage as it 
had previously. The new mortgage was for around £19,000 less than the outstanding 
balance on the mortgage being repaid, and Halifax charged an ERC on that difference.
Mrs and Mr S complained, saying that in calls with their broker and solicitor (and indeed on 
the redemption statement) Halifax had said no ERC would be payable. Halifax accepted that 
it had been less than clear in what it had said on the phone and paid £500 compensation for 
Mrs and Mr S time, trouble and upset. 
Mrs and Mr S brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think Halifax need do any 
more than it had done in paying £500 compensation. Mrs and Mr S asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
The case is simpler than its been made to look. Thats because I dont have to decide if 
Halifax made a mistake. Its already admitted that. All I have to decide if Halifax has 
responded fairly to the complaint, or if it needs to do more. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them, are as follows.
First of all, the application Mrs and Mr S made in 2021 didnt involve simply transferring the 
existing mortgage to the new house; it meant repaying the existing mortgage altogether and 
taking out a new mortgage to replace it. What was being transferred was the interest rate 
product, and the individual terms of that product, on a continuing basis. The repayment of 
the existing mortgage was what triggered the ERC, but the taking of the new mortgage with 
the product ported from the existing one was what allowed the ERC to be refunded, up to a 
point.
I say up to a point, because no one is entitled to borrow money, and even where a lender 
has lent before, its not obliged to lend again, or lend the same amount again. Here, Halifax 
assessed the new application and decided it was only willing to lend a lesser amount than 
before. That was its prerogative; whether and how much a lender will lend is a matter of 
commercial judgement. We dont generally interfere in how a lender exercises its judgement, 
and Ive no reason to do so here.
Putting those things together, Halifax was perfectly within its rights to charge an ERC on the 
difference between the closing balance of the existing mortgage and the opening balance of 
the new one. Very simply, the terms of the existing mortgage contract allowed that to 
happen. But thats not the end of the matter.
Mrs and Mr S argue, with some force, that they were misled; that is, given wrong information 
that led them to think theyd pay no ERC at all. They also say that by offering compensation 
(albeit not enough in their eyes) Halifax is admitting guilt. Its true that Halifax has accepted 
having given the wrong information, but that still doesnt mean the ERC wasnt rightfully due 
and fairly charged. It simply means that Mrs and Mr Ss expectations were wrongfully raised.
Where that happens, we dont put people in the position theyd be in if the wrong information 
had been right; rather, we put them in the position theyd be in if the wrong information 
hadnt been given. In this case, that would mean Mrs and Mr S would always have known 
the ERC would be chargeable on the difference between the closing and opening balances. 
Mr S has said if theyd known that sooner, they could have used the overpayment allowance 
in the contract to reduce the balance on the existing mortgage before it was redeemed. But 
thats not the case; under the terms of the mortgage, if the mortgage is redeemed within six 
months of an overpayment, the overpayment will then be subject to an ERC. In other words, 
Mrs and Mr S could never have avoided paying an ERC on the difference between the 
closing and opening balances. So theyre already in the position theyd have been in if 
nothing had gone wrong.
Lastly, Mr S argues that the wording Halifax used in the mortgage contract is less than clear 
in making these distinctions apparent. I appreciate its not always apparent to the lay person 
that porting means transferring the product rather than the mortgage, but its something Id 
expect any FCA-registered mortgage broker or conveyancing solicitor to be familiar with. In 
any event, the format, structure and content of the mortgage contract are drawn up in 
accordance with the requirements of the FCA. Ive no regulatory power, so its not my 
function to tell Halifax how to word its mortgage contracts.For having their expectations wrongfully raised, Halifax paid Mrs and Mr S £500. In my view, 
that was more than generous in the wider circumstances. If no settlement had been made, 
I would not have awarded more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman