DRN-2969610
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined the claim he made 
on his wedding insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill provide a summary and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
Mr Ps wedding was due to take place in August 2020. It was rescheduled for August 2021 
due to Covid-19. But Mr P wasnt going to be able to have the number of guests hed 
intended to have due to the restrictions, so he cancelled the wedding. Great Lakes has 
declined Mr Ps claim as it says the wedding couldve gone ahead. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think Mr Ps reason for cancellation 
was covered by the policys terms and conditions and agreed the wedding could still have 
gone ahead. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- The terms and conditions of the policy say that Great Lakes would pay for 
irrecoverable expenses incurred in respect of ceremonial attire, flowers, photographs 
etc. booked but not used as a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation or 
curtailment of the wedding or wedding reception as a result of one (or more) of the 
eight listed reasons. The reason that appears to be most relevant, as its one of the 
few that doesnt relate to the failure of a supplier to attend, the weather, or work, is 
the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception [is] unable to hold your 
wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease 
The policy definition of your relates to the couple named in the schedule and 
wedding is a ceremony creating a contract of marriage or civil partnership which is 
legally enforceable within the UK, occurring on the wedding date. At the time of the 
cancellation and on the date of the wedding, the venue was able to hold the wedding, 
as defined under the policy, so this term doesnt apply. 
Mr P cancelled the wedding as the venue wouldnt have been able to accommodate 
all of his guests due to restrictions relating to Covid-19. But Im satisfied that, while 
this wouldve been extremely disappointing for Mr P, cancellation was avoidable as 
the wedding could still have gone ahead. 
- Mr P has noted that theres no term in the policy that relates to a reduction in the 
number of guests. The policy states, in what I consider to be a clear, fair and not 
misleading manner, under the Cancellation section what it will cover. The fact that a 
reduction in guests doesnt appear on this list means it isnt an insured event i.e. the 
policy doesnt cover for a situation in which the wedding can go ahead but the 
number of guests is reduced. 
- Mr P has suggested his wedding could be considered as curtailed as the numbers 
were restricted. But, referring back to the relevant term quoted above, the curtailment 
would, again, need to be as a result of the venue being unable to hold your wedding 
due to the disease. As the wedding (as defined under the policy) couldve gone 
ahead, I dont think it reasonable to consider it curtailed. 
- I also note that the Insurance Product Information Document which gives a 
summary of the cover states The policy does not offer cover if you decide not to go 
ahead with the wedding. While Mr Ps reasons are understandable, and I empathise 
with the situation he was in, it was ultimately his choice not to proceed with the 
wedding that had been booked.
- I appreciate what Mr P has told us about being fair to his guests and also wanting to 
minimise his losses by cancelling early, but Im satisfied that Great Lakes has acted 
in line with the terms and conditions by declining this claim. 
- Having looked at the timescales involved, I dont think it was an unreasonable 
amount of time between the claim being made and declined. Nor have I seen 
anything to suggest the outcome was later hurried. So I dont think Great Lakes has 
acted unfairly in regards to the handling of the claim. 
Based on everything Ive seen and been told, while I recognise Mr P has been very 
unfortunate, Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, without any undue delay. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman