DRN-1942960
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Stagemount Ltd, trading as Quid Market (QM), gave him three loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr C took out three loans with QM and details of these are shown below. The loans were 
repayable by three to six monthly repayments and have all been repaid.
Loan 
numberDate 
openedDate repaid Loan 
amountHighest monthly 
repayment amount
1. 14/3/2018 11/5/2018 £350 £158.68
2. 21/9/2018 28/3/2019 £350 £116.65
3. 16/4/2019 28/8/2019 £400 £134.92
Mr C said that hed taken out multiple loans with multiple companies and was struggling to 
afford to live after making sure all his loan repayments were made. He also suffered from 
mental health issues and had a severe gambling addiction.
Our adjudicator recommended that Loan 3 should be upheld. She said that the information 
QM gathered showed that Mr C was having problems managing his money. It would have 
seen that Mr C was also borrowing from other lenders. The lenders credit check results 
showed that Mr C had at least three other short term loans outstanding at the time Loan 3 
was given. And QM ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr C would have been able to 
sustainably repay Loan 3 and any further loans.
QM disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that its credit checks showed that there 
was a decrease in Mr Cs overall indebtedness between Loans 2 and 3. Although Mr C did 
have some other short term loans at the time of his third application, QM calculated that the 
repayments on Loan 3 would constitute 12% of his monthly disposable income. This 
provided a clear indication that payments would be and were sustainable. Mr C evidenced 
no difficulties in making the monthly repayments for his third loan. QM said that the 
adjudicator hadnt taken into account Mr Cs income and reduction in his overall 
indebtedness or his personal circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr C took out his loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
QM needed to check that Mr C could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable manner. 
This meant Mr C being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income without having 
to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks QM needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr C would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
QM made a number of checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked him for details of his income 
and expenditure. Mr C declared his monthly income as between £3,800 and £3,900. His 
declared expenditure was between £1,050 and £1,150. QMs credit checks indicated that   
Mr Cs outgoings were actually substantially higher than hed declared. But when making its 
lending decision, QM took account of the discrepancy and amended Mr Cs expenses figure. 
QM has provided this service with a copy of its credit check. I shall refer below to matters 
shown in QMs credit check.
Mr C has provided this service with a copy of his credit report. I can see that there were 
numerous short term loans on that report. 
Ive thought about whether QMs checks were proportionate for Loans 1 and 2. I note Mr C 
needed to make a highest repayment of £158.68 to repay Loan 1 and £116.65 to repay  
Loan 2. I can see that the repayments were relatively modest compared to Mr Cs 
disposable income as adjusted by QM to reflect the credit commitments it had seen on its 
credit checks.  
I note that QMs credit checks before Loans 1 and 2 showed that Mr C had 11 active 
accounts before Loan 1 and 16 active accounts before Loan 2. But he had no outstanding 
short term loans before Loan 1 and two outstanding short term loans before Loan 2. I can 
see that Mr Cs other borrowing might have suggested to QM that his finances were under 
pressure. But overall, I dont think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 and 2 were so large 
that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr C financial difficulty.
On balance, I think that the checks QM carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. And given Mr Cs repayment amounts for Loans 1 and 2 and that these were 
his first loans with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for QM to ask him 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
So, I dont think QM was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr C.
Mr C took out Loan 3 less than three weeks after repaying Loan 2. By that time, I would have 
expected QM to be alert to the possibility that Mr C might be experiencing financial 
problems. The loan amount had increased to £400 which was his highest loan yet. It was 
repayable by five monthly repayments with a highest repayment amount of £134.92. I can see that the repayment amounts might have appeared relatively modest compared to Mr Cs 
disposable income as adjusted by QM to reflect the credit commitments it had seen on its 
credit checks. 
But Ive carefully reviewed QMs credit checks before the loan. These show that the number 
of Mr Cs active credit accounts had increased to 21 accounts of which 12 had been opened 
in the previous six months. Although the total amount borrowed had fallen since the credit 
check carried out before Loan 2, I think the higher number of active accounts might have 
caused QM some concerns. I can see that there appeared to be four outstanding advances 
against income (ie payday loans) and around seven outstanding instalment loan accounts 
(described as unsecured loans) which appeared to require repayments over a period of six 
months or less. 
Although QM didnt need to do full checks when Loan 3 was arranged, it did need to act on 
the information it had.  It ought to have seen that Mr C had at least four short term loans on 
its credit checks before Loan 3. And as Mr C had an annual salary of over £68,000, having 
at least four outstanding short term loans and a substantial amount of other unsecured 
borrowing was, I think, an indication that he was having trouble managing his money. As 
such there was a real risk that Mr C wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 3. So 
as a responsible lender, I dont think QM should have given Loan 3 to Mr C.
I note that QM said that it had calculated that the repayments for Loan 3 would constitute 
12% of Mr Cs adjusted monthly disposable income and it said that this provided a clear 
indication that payments would be and were sustainable. But I disagree. The fact that Mr C 
appeared to use a small percentage of his monthly income to make the repayments and 
appeared to have sufficient disposable income, doesnt show that the repayments were 
sustainable.
QM also said that Mr C evidenced no difficulties in making the monthly repayments for his 
third loan. But the fact that all the loans were repaid doesnt mean that they were repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr C undue difficulty. 
So, Im upholding this complaint in part about Loan 3 and QM should put things right as 
shown below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Stagemount Ltd, trading as Quid Market, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr C paid on Loan 3;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse entries about the loan from Mr Cs credit file; 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QM to take off tax from this interest. QM must give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Roslyn RawsonOmbudsman