DRN-3157226
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Towergate Underwriting Group Limited changed the insurer their 
home insurance policy was placed with.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs C have strong views about what has happened. I want to assure 
them Ive read and considered carefully everything theyve said. However, my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as 
a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr and Mrs C, and by Towergate, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Towergate did not provide any advice to Mr and Mrs C, it provided information about 
the policy to them and it was for them to read that information and decide if the policy 
was suitable for their needs and circumstances. 
The policy was applied for online but completed by telephone. Due to the age and 
size of the property it wasnt possible for Towergate to use the industry recognised 
tool for valuing properties. Mr and Mrs C were therefore asked to provide the 
rebuilding cost of their property. Mr and Mrs C provided a rebuild value of £827,960 
and that is the value the insurance policy was based on.
It is not unusual for a broker to review policies and change insurers should they offer 
a better fit for the customer, be that for price, cover offered or another reason.
The renewal invites sent to Mr and Mrs C explained the insurer of the policy had 
changed, so I am satisfied they were made aware their policy had been placed with a 
different insurer.
I wouldnt expect Towergate to disclose commercially sensitive information about the 
insurance limits of any particular underwriter. So, I wouldnt have expected 
Towergate to explain to Mr and Mrs C the insurer the policy had been placed with, 
had a maximum limit to which it would provide cover. 
The main issue here is that the rebuilding value Mr and Mrs C provided was 
incorrect. Had it of been accurate, Towergate would not have been able to place the 
policy with the insurer it did.
Towergate placed the insurance based on the information that was supplied to it by 
Mr and Mrs C, I havent found it has acted incorrectly here.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Towergate 
Underwriting Group Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman