DRN-3983798
The complaint
Mr S has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua refused to refund transactions on his 
credit card made to a cryptocurrency company. He said he never made or authorised or 
made these transactions. 
What happened
Mr S said he acquired this credit card to improve his credit rating. He raised the five disputed 
transactions to this cryptocurrency company all done on 18 August and he raised a charge 
back on the other five transactions done on 30 August given the goods and services werent 
received.
Aqua looked into Mr S concerns and initially refunded the transactions and fees whilst it 
investigated. For the transactions done on 18 August which Mr S raised as fraud, it found the 
transactions were done using Mr S card plus it sent One Time Passcodes (OTP) to Mr S 
mobile phone which were then verified on that mobile phone before the transactions went 
through. It also discovered the IP used was the same the IP address used for undisputed 
transactions which Mr S had done previously. So, it took back the initial refunds and didnt 
uphold this part of his complaint. 
For the disputed transactions which were done on 30 August, Mr S raised four of the five of 
these transactions under the chargeback rules for them. This was defended by the 
cryptocurrency company so Aqua didnt pursue this any further. It did however provide Mr S 
with £65 compensation for some issues with the line in some calls Mr S made to Aqua. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Aqua had to do anything more. Mr S didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
The rules which concern disputed transactions like this are called the Payment Service 
Regulations (PSRs). Under these rules a customer is deemed liable for any authorised 
transactions. Authorised under the PSRs means the following: 
A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for 
the purposes of this part only if the payer has given its consent to the execution of 
the payment transaction; or the execution of a series of payment transactions of 
which that payment transaction forms part.
Consent is also defined by the PSRs and it doesnt have the more usual meaning in 
everyday speech. It is as follows:
Such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.
What this means in Mr S complaint, is that if the correct card details were used and 
verification was confirmed using the registered mobile phone by answering the OTP then the 
transaction is deemed to be both consented to and authorised. Aquas evidence clearly 
shows this. And its evidence goes even further as it has identified the same IP address 
which Mr S has used for other transactions which hes not disputing were also used for these 
transactions. 
Mr S is adamant he has not lost his card and no one else has access to it and that he still 
has the same mobile phone. Also, Aqua has shown he has previously responded to an OPT 
on transactions which werent disputed. So, Im satisfied that there is no indication of fraud 
for the transactions carried out on 18 August. And its more than probable that Mr S or 
someone on his behalf made these transactions. Therefore, I consider Aquas refusal to 
refund Mr S to be line with the PSRs and therefore is fair and reasonable. 
Turning to the disputed transactions done on 30 August, Mr S applied for a chargeback 
online for those transactions. So initially as per the chargeback rules Aqua temporarily 
credited these transactions on Mr S card while it waited for the response back from the 
cryptocurrency company. Mr S claim here said the goods or services werent supplied. 
However, the merchant didnt agree and showed Aqua that an account was set up in the 
name of someone with the same surname of Mr S and the same address. Therefore, Aqua 
was of the view that the chargeback was unlikely to succeed and the refunds were also 
taken back. Given the evidence supplied by the merchant, I consider that Aquas ultimate 
decision to refuse to refund these transactions done on 30 August was also fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr S complained that when he called Aqua several times the call got cut off. Although Aqua 
couldnt find any fault with its phone lines, it paid Mr S £65 compensation. I consider this fair 
and in line with our award of compensation for such issues. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman