DRN-3760712
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr S, who are represented by a professional representative (PR) complain that 
First Holiday Finance Limited (FHF) rejected their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA) 1974 in respect of a holiday product purchased in November 2009.
What happened
In July 2007 Mrs C and Mr S purchased trial membership of a timeshare from a company I 
will call C. In November 2009 they took a bonus week holiday as part of that membership 
and were required to attend a presentation. They purchased a points based membership at 
a cost of £19,684 which was funded in part by a loan from FHF. 
In November 2021 PR submitted what it describes as a complaint, but this would appear to 
be a letter of claim. This was wide ranging an as both parties are aware of the contents and 
in the interests of brevity I will set out a short summary. 
PR alleged that the product was misrepresented in numerous ways and Mrs C and Mr S 
were pressurised. It claimed that C breached the requirements of the Consumer Protection 
from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT). It said that FHF had not carried out an 
assessment of Mrs C and Mr S creditworthiness and had breached Office of Fair Tradings 
guide for creditors.  
FHF referred the letter to C which rebutted the claims in detail. Amongst other things it said 
that Mrs C and Mr S had always been able to take the holidays they requested at the place 
of their choice or similar. It noted they had requested to end the agreement which C would 
have accepted, but they had withdrawn that request.
PR brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mrs C and Mr S. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Firstly she addressed the matter 
of jurisdiction and decided the complaint was one we could consider. She then considered 
the merits and concluded the claim under s.75 CCA had been made out of time and she 
didnt believe the misrepresentation claim under s.140A had any merit. Nor did she consider 
there had been an unfair relationship or evidence of unaffordable lending.
PR didnt agree and said the claim made under s.75 CCA had been made in time as it was 
submitted within three years of the decision by FHF to reject it. PR set out what it considered 
to be the relevant sections of CPUT but didnt specify how it thought C had breached the 
legislation. Subsequently it submitted a generic counsels opinion on the activities of C. FHF 
did not consider PRs arguments had any merit whatsoever. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
The misrepresentation claims under s.75 CCA
PR seems to confuse the rules covering the jurisdiction of this service and the time limits for 
making a complaint with the rules for making a claim as set out in the Limitation Act.
PR says that C misrepresented the nature of the membership to Mrs C and Mr S when they 
bought it and that they have a claim for misrepresentation against C. Under s.75 CCA, FHF 
could be jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by C.
But our investigator says that any claim brought by Mrs C and Mr S for any alleged 
misrepresentations was made too late. Ive considered that argument and, having done so, 
agree. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not decided whether the limitation period has expired 
as that would be a matter for the courts should a legal claim be litigated. Rather, Ive 
considered whether FHF has acted fairly in turning down the claim.
It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under 
s 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the 
LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued (s 2 LA).
Here Mrs C and Mr S brought a like claim against FHF under s.75 CCA. The limitation period 
for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying misrepresentation 
claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 68 (April 
2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to the supplier, including 
that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation. Conversely, the creditor's right to repayment is so closely 
connected with the supply contract, and the debtor's statutory rights under sub-s (1), that the 
debtor may assert a right of set-off in diminution or extinguishment of his liability to the 
creditor, and as a defence in proceedings brought by the creditor (with or without a counter- 
claim). Any attempt to exclude the right of set-off will fall foul of CCA 1974, s 173(1) (and 
would in any case fall within [section 13(1)(b) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977])Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 claim expires six years from the date on which 
the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mrs C and Mr S entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that they entered into an 
agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of C and suffered a loss. They say, 
had the misrepresentations not been made, they would not have bought the product. And it 
was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the loan agreement with FHF that 
they were bound to and would have never taken out but for the misrepresentations. It 
follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued in 2009, so Mrs C and Mr S had six years 
from then to bring a claim. But they didnt make a claim against FHF until November 2021, 
which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think it as open to FHF to reject 
the misrepresentation claim.
The breach of contract claim under s.75 CCA
PR has said that C failed to provide exclusive accommodation which could be considered a 
breach of contract. However, as I understand it Mrs C and Mr S were able to take holidays 
and I can no basis for concluding that there was a breach of contract. Nor have I seen any 
evidence that they were promised exclusivity.
S.140 A
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mrs C and Mr S and 
FHF were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it 
if it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs C and Mr S could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against FHF anyway.
Their alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to them personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that FHF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that FHF owed Mrs C and Mr S a duty of care to ensure that C 
complied with the relevant regulations and it argues at length that these were breached. C 
has stated that the regulations were not broken and given I have no evidence that they were 
I cannot safely conclude that the claim under s.140A CCA has merit.
I have also considered the impact of CPUT. PR says that C made statements which were 
untrue, the presentation was disguised and Mrs C and Mr S were targeted and plied with 
alcohol. It also says C used bait and switch tactics and told consumers that the price was 
only available for a limited time. Finally it said that Mrs C and Mr S had not been told that there was no end date for their liability.
C has addressed each of these points and said the claims are wrong. The difficulty Mrs C 
and Mr S have is that they have not been able to provide any corroboration of what 
happened on the day. I have not seen any testimony setting out in detail what happened and 
I appreciate it would be difficult for them to do so given the purchase was made many years 
before the claim was made.
I have noted that they were able to terminate the agreement and according to C they did so, 
only to withdraw the request. I cannot say that the claim they were unable to terminate the 
agreement is accurate and I find it difficult to conclude the other claims are an accurate 
reflection of what happened. 
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible.
Our investigator said that he could not see any evidence that Mrs C and Mr S found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if FHF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me 
to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mrs C and Mr S 
lost out as a result of its failings. As I have not I do not consider I have grounds to uphold 
this element of their complaint.
Conclusion
I appreciate Mrs C and Mr S are dissatisfied with their purchase and they have my 
sympathies for this, but, in summary I cannot see why any of their claims were likely to have 
succeeded. So overall I think that FHF acted reasonably in not accepting the claims under 
s.75 and s. 140A CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman