DRN-2944895
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc provided him with a conditional 
sale agreement in December 2018 which was unaffordable.
This complaint has been brought by a family member on behalf of Mr M but for ease 
of reference I am only going to refer to Mr M as the agreement was in his name.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr M entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement for a used 
car. The cash price of the car was around £16,500 and the total repayable under the 
agreement was about £20,650 with 48 monthly payments of £326 and in the 49th month a 
payment of
£5000 fell due if Mr M wished to keep the car.
Mr M says this loan as unfordable when he entered into it as he only worked part-time 
earning around £400per month. He also says shortly after taking the car he became a 
father and had additional expenses to help with his child.
Mr M says he struggled to pay the loan and had to get help from family members to meet 
the commitment. In June 2020 Mr M complained to Santander that the conditional sale 
agreement had been unaffordable. Santander didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the 
supplying dealer had conducted all the correct checks and Mr M had signed to say he 
understood the terms of the loan and it was affordable.
Mr M disagreed with the decision of Santander and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. She said that although 
she didnt think Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks into Mr 
Ms income and expenses, nevertheless had it done so, those checks would have 
shown this loan was affordable. Our investigator said she didnt think Santander had 
done anything unfair or unreasonable.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said that Santander hadnt rigorously 
checked the affordability of the loan as it advertised it would. He also said he disagreed 
with our investigators view that he had sufficient disposable income left after his 
expenses to afford the loan.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Id seen that the car had now been handed back and the agreement voluntary 
terminated with a relative of Mr Ms paying a shortfall of £2500 when doing so. He said 
he had just needed to end the agreement as he couldnt afford it.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I needed to take 
into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There were two 
overarching questions I needed to think about in order to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These were:
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Mr M wouldve been able to sustainable repay the agreement
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
These were the same questions that had been considered by our investigator, but I had 
reached a different conclusion and will explain why.
Santander said that the necessary checks were carried out to ensure this loan was 
affordable for Mr M by looking at his banking and credit history. It hadnt reviewed his 
income and outgoings as it said no concerns were raised from these checks.
Looking at the FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which contains rules for 
responsible lending by consumer credit companies and to assist in assessing a 
consumers ability to repay credit. These checks should have been conducted to ensure 
any lending is affordable and sustainable for the borrower and so should be borrower 
focused and proportionate to the circumstances of the credit. That means things like the 
amount being borrowed, the length of the loan, the size of the repayments as well as credit 
history should have been considered.
Here, the information taken for Mr M was that he was living with his parents and had 
been working in the same job for around eight months. Santander said the credit checks 
showed Mr M had had his bank account for many years and had had no issues recorded 
on his credit file but looking at his age, I didnt think it was reasonable for Mr Ms bank 
account history to have carried a significant amount of weight as to his ability to handle 
and manage credit.
There was also a Demand and Needs document signed by Mr M when he had 
attended the supplying dealership. This document asked Mr M to confirm that the 
credit agreement was affordable and set out the approximate monthly amount he 
considered he could meet. The amount recorded was £327 pm which was equal to the 
actual monthly payments of the credit agreement.
This was a credit agreement for around £20,000 repaid over a four-year period. And while 
I appreciated Mr M had been asked to consider the affordability of the loan as part of the 
process of taking out of the credit agreement, looking at the length of the agreement and 
the amount of the monthly payments I thought it was clear this was a substantial 
commitment for him to meet. I didnt think I could reasonably say that Santander had 
carried out enough checks when it hadnt ascertained the level of Mr Ms income and/or 
his expenses. And although Santander had ascertained that Mr M was living with his 
parents and had been in his job for less than a year it didmt appear to have asked about 
his work history or whether he had any dependents. Had it done so, then I think it was 
likely Mr M would have revealed he had only very recently become a new father.
I thought Santander should have asked more questions about Mr Ms income and 
expenses. Under CONC 5.2A.16(3) it says; It is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a 
statement of current income made by the customer without independent evidence. Here, 
I thought that due to the amount of the credit being borrowed and the length of the agreement that it would have been proportionate for Santander to have verified Mr Ms 
income and asked more questions about his committed spending. As I hadnt seen that 
Santander had done any of these things, I couldnt reasonably say Santander had made a 
fair lending decision based on reasonable and proportionate checks.
The next issue I therefore needed to consider was, if reasonable and proportionate 
checks had been carried out what would they have revealed? Here, Id seen that Mr M 
was, at the time he entered into the credit agreement, employed part-time and his 
contract was for 15 hours a week. This meant his earnings would have been around £400 
per month.
However, looking at the bank statements provided by Mr M, Id also seen that it appeared 
he had been offered, and accepted, a large number of additional work hours as over-time 
though I was unclear how regularly this had occurred. I didnt see the payslips for these 
particular months, but the bank statements showed that in the three months prior to taking 
out the agreement, Mr M had been able to more than double his expected salary and had 
been earning around £1000 per month.
But I had also seen a letter provided by Mr Ms former employer following his ceasing 
that part-time role which said Mr Ms average wage during his term of employment with 
them had been his part-time salary.
Looking at the evidence, I didnt think it would be reasonable to assume Mr M would 
have sustained the level of over-time he worked in the three months before he took out 
the agreement for the car throughout the duration of the credit agreement.
So, I thought in these circumstances it would be fair to think that had Santander done 
checks that were borrower focused about Mr Ms hours of work and what was 
guaranteed, then although it would have been revealed Mr M had an option to do 
overtime this wasnt necessarily always available. And, therefore, it would have been 
reasonable to take a portion of his overtime earnings into account when considering his 
income particularly when considering the length of this agreement. I thought it would have 
been fair to take Mr Ms income as being £750 per month
Id seen Mr M changed jobs sometime after September 2018 where his hours then 
appeared to be settled and so his earnings didnt vary very much. From that point, Mr M 
had earnt around £550 per month. But I accepted it was unlikely this change would have 
been anticipated by Mr M in December 2018 and it hadnt been something he had raised 
when discussing affordability of the car at the dealership. So, I didnt think Santander 
would have uncovered this forthcoming change to Mr Ms income even if it had carried 
out checks into his employment. 
Mr M lived at home and paid his parents keep which covered his clothes, food and bus 
fare. The amount he had paid varied depending on his earnings and was around £100 
per week when he did overtime but was reduced when he earnt less. He had also paid 
for his mobile phone (£36 per month), another loan (around £40 per month) and an 
overdraft fee (£6 per month). Following the birth of his child in December 2018, Mr M 
made a contribution of £139 per month and this contribution was based on his income.
I accepted Mr Ms child maintenance payment hadnt been in place at the time he had 
entered into the credit agreement. But as set out above, I thought if Santander had asked 
Mr M more questions about his expenses, it would have considered there would be a 
financial liability for him to meet in respect of his child.
When adding Mr Ms expenses together and looking at his part -time earnings and an uplift of 50 - 75% for his overtime Mr M had a disposable income of £231 to £356 per 
month. This wasnt enough to cover the cost of the conditional sale agreement and I 
didnt think Santander would have considered this credit agreement was affordable for 
him.
So, for the reasons given above I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I thought that if 
Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks regarding Mr Ms 
income and expenses then these would have shown that he was unable to sustainably 
repay the agreement. 
Mr M had returned the car, but there had been a £2,502.43 shortfall that he had needed 
to pay when he voluntary terminated the agreement. Id seen this had been paid for by a 
member of Mr Ms family and not Mr M. As this wasnt Mr Ms loss and Santander only 
has relationship with him, I couldnt fairly ask it to repay this amount to Mr M. This was 
because this wasnt Mr Ms money. However, I did think it would be fair for Santander to 
repay Mr M the interest element of his monthly payments as the agreement shouldnt 
have gone live.
The final question I needed to consider was whether Santander had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. Although I thought it hadnt made reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Mr Ms income and expenses, I hadnt seen any evidence that it 
acted unfairly in any other way.
Mr M accepts my provisional but Santander disagrees. It says that Mr M maintained all 
the payments due under the agreement and didnt raise a complaint about the affordability 
for two and half years which then was actually raised by a relative of Mr Ms. Santander 
also says that it was Mr M who gave the budget he had available for the car after other 
expenses to the supplying dealer and the dealer had completed a demand and needs 
document.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking again at my provisional view and the evidence thats been presented I havent 
changed my view. 
While I appreciate the payments were made on this agreement, Ive seen this was because 
Mr M was relying heavily on assistance from family to do so and borrowed regularly. Taking 
into account Mr Ms age, and that he was living at home, Im not surprised his family stepped 
in and assisted him when he was financially struggling. I dont think I can reasonably say the 
agreement was affordable based on the payments being made for a time. In the end, Mr M 
has had to voluntary terminate the agreement and return the car.
I also dont think its reasonable in these particular circumstances to find that the loan was 
affordable for Mr M because the complaint was brought to Santander on his behalf after two 
and half years. I appreciate it may have taken some time for the complaint to have been 
made but Mr Ms family had reached a point where they could no longer continue to support 
him with the agreement. This was Mr Ms financial commitment and not his familys, they 
were under no obligation to assist him and although they had chosen to do so for a time 
doesnt mean it was affordable for Mr M.
I appreciate Mr M may have been the one who provided his monthly available budget for the 
car to the supplying dealer. And that this figure was recorded on the Demand and Needs document but I disagree with Santander that completing this document meant the supplying 
dealer had gone above and beyond standard industry practice. Ive seen that Mr Ms stated 
monthly budget matched the agreements monthly payments, but looking at the rules set out 
in CONC its clear that generally it isnt enough to accept what a consumer says about their 
current income without verifying it with independent checks. Ive seen no evidence that Mr M 
was asked about his income and outgoings. I am satisfied that Santander didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks that Mr M was able to repay this credit agreement in a 
sustainable way.
I am also still satisfied that had it made those checks it would have considered, due to the 
level of Mr Ms earnings, that this agreement was unaffordable for him. As set out above, I 
still think its reasonable to take a proportion of Mr Ms overtime into account when looking at 
his earnings, particularly when looking at the amount of the credit and the length of the 
agreement. And that this meant Mr M didnt have sufficient disposable income to cover the 
monthly costs of the financial agreement.
So, for the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Santander to do the following:
Reimburse Mr M the interest element of the payments he made under the 
conditional sale agreement together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M any charges that were added to the account together interest 
at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
As set out above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im asking Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc to do the following:
Reimburse Mr M the interest element of the payments he made under the 
conditional sale agreement together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M any charges that were added to the account together interest 
at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman