DRN-4034165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc advised them not to take out a 
new interest rate on their mortgage to avoid paying an early repayment charge (ERC). By 
the time they did take a new rate, interest rates had increased and they complain that 
theyve lost out overall by being on a higher rate than they could have been.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage with NatWest. They were on a fixed interest rate which ran 
until November 2022.
In January 2022 they contacted NatWest because they were concerned about the prospect 
of interest rates increasing. Mrs H had a discussion with a NatWest staff member about what 
rates were available and the ERC they would be liable to pay if they took a rate at that point 
rather than waiting until the end of their existing rate. At that time, NatWest had a rate of 
1.59% available, but to secure that rate theyd have to pay an ERC of £1,273.99. To avoid 
the ERC, Mr and Mrs H would have to wait until August 2022 to apply for a new rate.
Following that discussion, Mr and Mrs H didnt go ahead with a new rate application. In July 
2022 they got back in touch with NatWest to start an application, but by this time the best 
available interest rate was 3.61% rather than 1.59%. They say this means theyll pay an 
extra £8,760 over the five years of the interest rate. 
Mr and Mrs H complained. They said that NatWest advised them not to take out a new rate 
in January 2022 because the ERC would outweigh any savings. They relied on this advice, 
but it turned out not to be correct. They want NatWest to honour the 1.59% rate they could 
have taken.
NatWest said it hadnt given Mr and Mrs H advice in January. It had explained the factual 
position  what rates were available, and the cost of the ERC should Mr and Mrs H decide to 
go ahead  but ultimately it was for Mr and Mrs H to decide what to do. However, it agreed 
that the adviser Mr and Mrs H had spoken to had expressed her opinion about how much 
interest rates might rise between January and August, which she should not have done. It 
also recognised that Mr and Mrs H had experienced delays in being able to make an 
appointment to apply for a new rate in July and August. It offered £150 compensation, and 
said it would allow Mr and Mrs H to choose from the rates it had available on 29 July 2022 
when they first asked for an appointment.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. NatWest didnt agree, and asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld, but I took a different view 
about the appropriate redress. So I issued a provisional decision to allow the parties to 
comment on my thinking. I said:
Ive listened to the recording of the call Mrs H had with NatWest on 27 January 2022. This 
case turns on what she was told in that call.  For that reason, and because theres been 
some dispute about the importance of individual passages of the call and whether they were 
placed in their appropriate context, Ive set out extracts from the call at length below  as I 
think its important to consider not just individual sections and their context, but the overall 
conversation in the round. 
The call had been arranged because Mr and Mrs H were considering borrowing a further 
£15,000 for home improvements. It began with NatWest confirming Mr and Mrs Hs existing 
mortgage, including that there was a fixed rate in place until 30 November 2022. NatWest 
said it assumed that would stay in place. Mrs H said she wanted to pay to come out of the 
existing rate, and just have one mortgage. 
NatWest You do realise youre going to pay a penalty for that?
Mrs H £1,000 and something wasnt it. Also were concerned about interest rates 
going up and we just thought wed rather pay that amount to get out, fix now, 
where I think the interest rate they told me was slightly lower than what were 
currently paying, 1.8 something
NatWest So you want it all on the lower rate, what youre planning?
Mrs H Yes please. And I know were going to pay to come out of it but my concern is 
that if we move on to the end of the year and it goes up to like 6% or 
something
NatWest So, were you aware - I dont think it will go up to 6%, but I take your point, yes
Mrs H Rates could go up, yes
NatWest Were you aware that there was, at the moment you are ten months away from 
that. You dont have to wait, if you did want to do this without a penalty you 
would not have to wait until November, you could do it sooner than that. Let me 
just work out when the date would be you could do it, that might change your 
mind, I dont know. If it doesnt thats fine but let me just tell you when it is. 
It would be the 14th August. Theres a magic number, the number is 110 
days sorry 12th August. So if you were to wait until 12 August to do this 
application you could achieve exactly what you want to achieve without paying 
a penalty
Mrs H OK. I think
NatWest The only reason Im saying that, is because its not that long. Up to you
Mrs H I do get that, but Im not too fussed but I know what hes like, hes going to be 
very worried about these interest rates going up so I think hell probably rather 
just pay the money, get out of it and start.
NatWest Ill just document Ive made you aware of it. At the end of the day its your 
decision, you can of course do what you want to do, but its a lot of money for a 
very short space of time. If it was years off I would understand but you are 
going to end up paying for the sake of what, were nearly February so March 
April May June July, five months. Its up to youMrs H I guess you guys have no information on interest rates and stuff, you just have 
whatevers out there and I guess you cant put a price on that anyway can you
NatWest No Im afraid not. I mean, you either leave it as it is and just take the extra 
£15,000 on what we call the stand-alone borrowing rates which are slightly 
higher than your residential rates, OK, but not massively
Mrs H I dont really want to do that separately. And were not in a rush for that money 
either, we do need to do it [the home improvements] but its not like we need to 
do it right now
NatWest The only advantage of doing it together, so if your mortgage was going to 
mature, to come up for renewal in the next three months, what would happen is 
we would be doing additional borrowing and what we call a rate switch, 
meaning the whole lot would go on one rate. Youd still have two parts to your 
mortgage, youre always going to have two parts to your mortgage, even if you 
do this now and pay a penalty youre still going to have two parts to your 
mortgage, theyll still be on the same rate. But if your main aim is to put it all 
together as one youre not going to achieve that. It will always have 
sub-account one and sub-account two. The advantage, what youre telling me, 
is you and your husband want to put it all on the same rate, which I understand. 
If you wanted to do that, if you waited until August, you could do that without 
paying a penalty
Mrs H How much is the penalty, sorry?
It would be 1% of the outstanding balance, so, we dont calculate them, we 
dont have access to them, but it would be 1%
Discussion about how interest is calculated
NatWest So the interest rate is fixed at 1.92%. So youve got two options, youve got 
three options. 
Option number one, is do what you suggested so youre going to pay a penalty 
of 1% which is approximately £1,200 to do it now, meaning that you are going 
to pay the penalty, go forward, put your main mortgage on a new interest rate 
and the extra 15 on a new interest rate, on the same rate. But you will still have 
a part one and a part two, but one payment leaves your account, you have one 
direct debit, so you dont really know you have two parts to your mortgage 
unless you look at it in front of you and then youll see there is, theres no 
difference
Option two, is wait until August and do what youre doing now and not pay the 
penalty, but the risk is that rates might be slightly higher
Number three, is keep your main mortgage as it is now which is at 1.92%, still 
with changing the new rate on that come November, and just take your £15,000 
on what we call a stand-alone additional borrowing rate now. They are slightly 
higher, theyre not 5 or 6%, theyre nowhere near that kind of rate, but they are 
slightly higher. But youre only going to put £15,000, youre not having your 
whole mortgage on that higher rate, youre only going to put £15,000 on that 
higher rate.
So those are your three options. Its entirely up to you, but I just need to make you aware, because its only five months
NatWest Its not long
Mrs H No its not long, and I wouldnt be doing my job properly and they would pull me 
up and say why have you not had a conversation with your customers and say 
look, if you wait five months, you wont pay a penalty. But its entirely up to 
you, entirely up to you.
So, what do you think?
NatWest I think that makes perfect sense, but in my head I think the conversation Im 
going to have with my husband is hes going to want to do it anyway. But he 
might prove me wrong. So can we go ahead with the fact that we want to do 
this, and then if we dont I can let you know and we can discuss the other 
options.
Mrs H You can, you can
NatWest Shall I see if I can get hold of him now real quick?
Mrs H Youll talk to him this evening, wont you?
NatWest Yes
Mrs H OK. So we can go ahead with paying the penalty now, as you originally thought, 
for now
NatWest Shall I just try and call him really quick, is that OK?
Mrs H Yes of course it is, yes
NatWest He might not answer [pause] No, hes not at his desk
Mrs H Lets just do this affordability, because either way weve got to get affordability 
done, the only way this is going to be redundant is if you decide to wait until 
August because well have to do it again in August. But that doesnt matter
Its at the second meeting that you discuss interest rates. So you can make 
your final decision on what you want to do and which way you want to go, as 
long as you do it before that second meeting youll be OK. And the second 
meeting wont be before next week. All right?
So you want a deal break, its called a deal break, in other words break the 
current deal. I understand why, its because theres a lot of talk of rates going 
up, isnt there, at the moment 
NatWest Were very careful with our money and we really [inaudible]
Mrs H No I understand that, and its a good thing that is.
NatWest I get it probably doesnt make much sense, saying were going to pay £1,200Mrs H What youre going to save, on that interest rate, is not going to be worth £1,200
NatWest OK
Mrs H Thats my concern. But its your decision. For the sake of five months, thats the 
difference. If you had another five years to go on it and you were going to pay to 
come out, then it would be worth the money. But youve got five months. That 
saving wont pay you back what youre paying in that time period, do you see 
what I mean
NatWest Yes, that makes sense
Mrs H OK. Anyway, lets just what we need to do you can decide. So weve 
documented that, potentially a deal break, but weve not 100% decided yet. 
OK. But were happy with the 20 years and six months term, we dont want to 
change that, and were happy its on a capital repayment basis
NatWest Oh no, what were we going to do with that? We were going down to 15 years
Mrs H 15 years for the £15,000, or 15 years for the main mortgage?
NatWest 15 years for everything
Mrs H So you want to change the term as well. Right. Thats definite, you want to 
change the term, yes?
NatWest Yes, weve just been paying ridiculous nursery fees for the last five years and in 
a few months time
Discussion about term extension  including whether to extend and options to make 
overpayments instead. Mrs H says there are more options they hadnt considered
NatWest I need to know now, whether you want to change the term of your main 
mortgage or not because its going to affect how I do this application so I need 
to know that now
Mrs H Im happy to stick with the plan I discussed with [Mr H] or I dont know if you 
want me to go away, talk to him, decide what we actually want, and then book 
another appointment?
NatWest Whatever you want, I can do that happily for you
Mrs H Because were not in a rush. Otherwise it might be wasting your time
NatWest And it might be wasting yours
Mrs H If we were going to be doing the £15,000 over a shorter term, I could  if we 
could do that now, and in August re-mortgage the rest of it on a 20 year term
NatWest Yes, absolutely, you could just address the £15,000 now, over a 20, over a 15 
year term, 10 year term, whatever you decide. And when you talk to the next 
adviser, part of their conversation with you is around the term. They will always 
ask, whats your budget, how much do you want to spend, how much 
realistically can you spend, and then theyll always try and make that over the shortest term you can afford. Theyll always try and reduce the term because 
its cheaper. If you can pay it off over 10 years instead of 20 youll pay less, as 
you know. Which is what youre trying to do anyway. So theyll always try and 
do that for you automatically.
Mrs H So with £15,000, can you give me an idea of how much that portion on its own 
would be over say a 5 year, 10 year term, separately?
NatWest I dont know if I can [interruption]
When you booked this in, they should have told you how much it would cost
Mrs H Not the £15,000 separately, just adding it to the £129,000 weve got left
NatWest 
Right, lets see. If you just do the £15,000 now and dont change the term on 
your main mortgage and dont change the interest rate and dont pay the 
penalty, your main mortgage payments wont change theyll stay the same. So 
then the £15,000 will be a completely standalone thing. 
I dont have access to the interest rates, thats what its done in two parts. Its 
the next adviser that would usually go through this with you and give you the 
breakdown and can answer all those detailed questions. But I do appreciate 
you need to understand which way you want to go first before you can get to 
that stage. So its a little bit difficult. This is just an indication
Mrs H Yes I know youre not bound to it or anything, its just an idea
NatWest This is going to be based on a standalone interest rate, I cant tell you what its 
going to be if you tie it in with the main mortgage interest rate 
Mrs H So is the interest rate a bit higher, much higher?
NatWest Its only a little bit higher, its not massively higher but it is a little bit higher.
If youre not desperate to do the work, it would make sense to wait until August 
because youre not paying the penalty. And then youre going to get your lower 
rate and not pay the penalty. But if you cant wait until August because you 
need to do it sooner, again I completely understand. Its a judgement call really, 
but it seems a big penalty to pay for the sake of five months. 
Mrs H Yes
NatWest Right, just putting the information in, I think what its going to be better to do is, 
rebook you back, you have a conversation with your husband, decide one way 
or another what you want to do, and then well get you rebooked. Its not a 
problem, I can get you booked in soon
Mrs H I do think its worth, when there are so many options, and I really didnt realise, 
five months isnt a long time for £1,200, is it?
NatWest Not really noMrs H I guess, its like a lottery isnt it, youve just got to hope interest rates dont shoot 
up in the next five months
NatWest Yeah. And there is a lot of talk of them going up, and they are going up, but 
theyre not going up by whole percents at a time, theyre not jumping up that 
much, and I dont think youll be up at 5 or 6% by August, I really dont
Mrs H OK
NatWest But, I think therell be a lot of people in a lot of trouble if that happens, to be 
honest with you, but you never know. So there is, there are two sides of the 
coin. Youve got to weigh up the risk of that, versus do I want to pay £1,200 for 
the sake of five months
Mrs H Yes
NatWest So. £15,000, Im doing an indication here for you, over 15 years
Mrs H Could you do it over 5 and 10 years?
NatWest So, over 15 years, the £15,000 on its own, based on the situation where youre 
leaving your main mortgage as it is, youre not going to come out early and pay 
the penalty and youre leaving the term at 20 years and 6 months, if you just did 
the 15 now over 15 years, you would be paying between £96 and £100 per 
month.
The reason its between £96 and £100 is I cant give you an exact interest rate, 
it depends whether you went for a two year fixed or a five year fixed, whether 
you paid a fee, whether you didnt pay a fee, all of those things change the rate
If you did the same thing over 10 years, it would be between £137 and £141 per 
month. Over 5 years, it would be between £262 and £266 a month. The interest 
rate stays the same whether you go for 15 10 or 5 years, its the term that 
changes the amount you pay. The shorter the term the less interest you pay 
overall because youre paying it back quicker as you know already
Obviously this is based on interest rates as they are now. If you waited until 
August you could do this but this could be different. It might not be any higher, it 
might be lower, it might be higher, dont know. I know the consensus is its 
probably going to be higher, but we dont know. But if you waited until August, 
you could still not pay a penalty, get the advantage of getting the residential 
rates on the extra £15, and still do that one over a shorter term. 
Mrs H Oh OK. So if I did them both at the same time but I said I wanted to keep my 
main one at 20 and Ill do this one at 10, I would still have the same interest rate 
for both? Right, perfect
NatWest Yes. Whenever you do it, you can have different terms on both because they 
are always going to be two separate elements, were never going to put them 
together and marry them together in one lump. Thats why you can different 
terms on them
Mrs H I think for me it makes sense to do them together, whether we do that now or 
we do that in August, it doesnt seem to make much sense to split it ouyNatWest I agree with you, but its entirely up to you
Mrs H Yes of course. Thank you so much, this has been really helpful
NatWest Good. Talk to [Mr H} about it, decide what you want to do. Do you want me to 
get you rebooked in now, or do you want to speak to him and email me and 
then well get you booked?
Mrs H If I speak to him and email you and I can let you know whether I want to get 
rebooked in or whether well wait until August
NatWest says that Mrs H was not being given advice during this call. Im not persuaded of 
that, at least in the broader sense of the word. At no point on the call that Ive listened to did 
NatWest make clear that it was merely providing information, not advice. 
In strict regulatory terms it might not have been providing advice  in the sense of making a 
specific recommendation about a particular mortgage that it considered most suitable for 
their needs and circumstances. But in more general terms, NatWest did give Mrs H advice 
about which of the options open to them might be best. And it also expressed opinions about 
the likely movement of interest rates, including making predictions about the level they might 
or might not be at by August 2022. I dont think this was appropriate. 
I also think that when explaining the options to Mrs H, NatWest presented her with a 
misleading basis for assessing what was the right thing to do. It said that Mr and Mrs H 
should judge the decision on whether to pay the ERC based on the savings over the five 
month period until August 2022  that the appropriate comparison was whether Mr and Mrs 
H would save by reducing their interest rate from the 1.92% they were on to the 
approximately 1.6% available at that time. This represented a saving of around 0.3% per 
month, to be judged against the £1,200 cost of paying the ERC to access that saving.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, NatWest accepted that wasnt appropriate, 
because they would actually be saving for more than five months, since their existing rate 
ran to November 2022. 
But I think the issue with what was said here goes further than that. NatWest used the wrong 
comparator altogether. Mr and Mrs Hs reasons for considering ending their existing rate and 
incurring the ERC were not to access a slightly lower rate for the remainder of the existing 
product term. It was because they were concerned about rising interest rates  and that the 
rates available to them in November 2022 (not realising they could book a rate in August) 
might be much higher than what was then available in January. So it would be worth paying 
an ERC to secure a lower rate now rather than wait and end up on a higher rate in 
November. 
The cost-benefit calculation that Mr and Mrs H ought to have considered was not whether 
the saving between February and August (or even November) outweighed the ERC, it was 
whether the difference between the rate they could secure in January for the next two or five 
years was sufficiently lower than the rate they might secure in November (or August) to 
offset the cost of the ERC.
But in the call NatWest did not understand that. It presented the choice as being between 
the ERC and the saving until August, not the saving after August. This gave Mrs H a false 
picture of the nature of what she and Mr H would need to consider. NatWest also made 
predictions about the future movements of interest rates, both about the extent interest rates would rise, and that the remortgage rates in August would be lower than the standalone 
further borrowing rates in January. Those were predictions it shouldnt have made, and 
which turned out to underestimate what actually happened  to mortgage rates even more 
than to the Bank of England base rate.
I think the combination of these two factors  presenting an incorrect basis for assessing the 
costs and benefits of paying the ERC, and making inaccurate predictions about likely interest 
rates  gave Mrs H a misleading impression of how to make the decision that she and Mr H 
were considering. While NatWest also repeatedly said it was Mr and Mrs Hs decision to 
make, the adviser also made clear she didnt think it was a good idea and discouraged them 
from doing so. I think it was reasonable to expect them to rely on the basis for making that 
decision NatWest had outlined, and reasonable to rely on the steer NatWest gave Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H werent in a position to go ahead with their application on that day in any case. 
Thats because they also needed to decide what to do about the mortgage term, and 
whether to reduce it as part of their application. I think this part of the call correctly set out 
the options available to them, and Mrs H needed to discuss them with Mr H before going 
ahead.
So regardless of what had happened during the discussion about interest rates, 
Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have progressed their mortgage application on that day. 
In fact, they didnt do so until August. Ive listened to the August call, and at the outset of that 
call Mrs H said shed been advised not to pay the ERC in January because they wouldnt 
recoup the money. So that was clearly the understanding shed been left with after the 
January call  and, as Ive set out above, its understandable why she took that conclusion 
from the call. But the saving between February and August wasnt the appropriate 
comparator to have used.
On balance, Im persuaded that Mrs H was reassured by the content of the call in January 
that interest rates wouldnt rise by as much as they in fact did, and that in any case there 
was no benefit in paying the ERC because the saving in interest between then and August 
2022 wouldnt outweigh the costs. This led she and Mr H to decide not to progress their 
application until they could do so without paying an ERC  by which time they were left 
paying considerably more than they would have done had they re-mortgaged sooner. I think 
its likely that had Mrs H been given more accurate information they would have gone ahead 
in January or February. 
I dont think this is a hindsight conclusion. Its now known  but couldnt have been known for 
sure in January 2022  that Mr and Mrs H would definitely have been better off paying the 
ERC. But the question isnt whether Mr and Mrs H could have known that in January 2022; 
its whether NatWest misled them by giving them a false basis on which to assess the risk of 
that happening. I think it did. And even if that didnt, in strict regulatory terms, amount to 
advice, it was at the very least a failure to communicate in a way thats clear, fair and not 
misleading. NatWest did make clear that ultimately it was for Mr and Mrs H to decide how to 
proceed, but that doesnt change the fact that it gave them a misleading impression of how 
to make that decision for themselves, and gave them a steer on what that decision should 
be. 
To put things right, I agree with our investigator that NatWest should rework Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage so that it is as if they had taken a new interest rate at the time of the January 2022 
call, rather than in August 2022. They couldnt go ahead on that date because they also 
needed to decide what to do about the term. But they could have gone ahead within a few 
days and for the sake of convenience I will assume an application could have been made on 
1 February.NatWest should put Mr and Mrs H back in the position they would have been had they made 
the changes to their main mortgage they actually made in August, but in February instead  
taking effect from 1 March. NatWest hasnt provided me with the details of what 
Mr and Mrs H did in August, so in response to this provisional decision it should confirm the 
changes that actually implemented at that point  including the details of any further 
borrowing.
Our investigator didnt include the ERC in assessing the redress, but I think this should be 
factored in as Mr and Mrs H would have had to pay the ERC to access a new rate at this 
time. NatWest has also offered £150 compensation and I think thats fair.
The responses to my provisional decision
NatWest confirmed that Mr and Mrs H re-mortgaged in September 2022, taking an additional 
£20,000 borrowing, with an interest rate of 3.61% on both the main mortgage and the 
additional borrowing. The interest rate they selected was over a five year term and with no 
product fee. It accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs H said they wanted to know what the backdated interest rate would be before 
accepting my decision. And they said they didnt think £150 compensation was enough to 
reflect the stress or inconvenience caused, or the amount of time theyve spent dealing with 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my mind. Both parties agreed with the overall 
conclusion I reached and Im satisfied its a fair way to resolve this complaint  Ill say more 
about the detail of the redress below.
Putting things right
To put things right, NatWest should re-work Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage as if they had taken 
the equivalent five year fee-free rate that was available on 1 February 2022. It should apply 
that rate to the whole mortgage. That includes the £20,000 additional borrowing  though it 
should only take effect on that part of the mortgage from when the additional borrowing was 
drawn down in September. I think thats fair because Im satisfied Mr and Mrs H would have 
paid the ERC and applied for the additional borrowing, securing the lower rate for their entire 
mortgage, in February had things gone right  but it wouldnt be fair as part of the redress to 
charge them interest on the extra borrowing before they actually ended up taking it. NatWest 
should also account for the ERC in the redress.
Ive also thought about the fair amount of compensation in this case, and Ive noted what 
Mr and Mrs H have said about the impact on them. And I appreciate that this was a stressful 
and upsetting experience. But I havent seen any evidence paying the extra interest rate 
caused them particular financial hardship, and on balance Im satisfied £150 is fair in all the 
circumstances..
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:Re-work Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage as if they had taken a new rate with effect from 
1 March 2022. It should use the five year fee free rate it had available on 1 February 
2022  applying that to all parts of their mortgage, but in the case of the additional 
£20,000 borrowing only from the date Mr and Mrs H completed on the further 
borrowing in September 2022.
In taking account of the ERC Mr and Mrs H would have paid to access the new rate, 
give them the option of:
oPaying it now by having it deducted from the redress; or
oAdding it to the mortgage balance as at 1 March 2022, with interest that 
would have been charged since then included in the re-worked mortgage 
balance.
In respect of overpayments made since 1 March 2022 because of the higher interest 
rates Mr and Mrs H have paid, give them the option of:
oHaving the overpayments refunded to them, adding simple annual interest of 
8%* running from the date of each payment to date of refund; or
oHaving the overpayments credited to their mortgage balance each month, 
reducing the balance and interest charged in subsequent months.
Write to Mr and Mrs H confirming the interest rate applicable to their mortgage 
including the revised end date of their fixed rate, their revised balance and revised 
monthly payments.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £150, if it hasnt already done so.
* If Mr and Mrs H select this option, NatWest should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element 
of my award as required by HMRC. But it should tell them what it has deducted so they can reclaim 
the tax if they are entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman