DRN-1047831
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has cancelled his motor 
insurance policy from the start (voided it) and declined his claim.
What happened
Watford Insurance said in its final response that Mr W obtained the quotation for his policy 
on a price comparison website. He was asked Has the car been modified in any way? and 
he said No. There was also a help box with a note explaining that a vehicle is considered 
modified if it has been changed in any way since it was first supplied by the manufacturer 
and some examples of modifications were listed. After Mr W made his claim it came to light 
that his car had been modified in a number of ways. If he had answered the question 
correctly Watford Insurance wouldnt have quoted or let him buy the policy. So, it had voided 
the policy from the start and declined to deal with his claim. Mr W was also warned about the 
effect of giving incorrect information and the policy being voided in its terms of business 
which had been supplied to him. 
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The online price comparison site asked if Mr W if his car had been modified and 
when the cursor hovers over the question an explanatory note appears explaining 
what this means and giving examples of some modifications. 
Here Mr Ws car had several changes which met the definition of a modification. And 
even if he wasnt conversant with cars some of the cosmetic changes, like tinted 
windows, wouldve been apparent to him. Mr W therefore didnt answer the question 
that was asked correctly and he made a misrepresentation to the insurer.
Watford Insurance has shown that if hed correctly answered the question it wouldnt 
have issued a quote or insured Mr W as its underwriting criteria do not allow vehicle 
modifications. 
Watford Insurance has classified Mr Ws misrepresentation as a reckless one which 
is fair as it wouldve been clear to him that there had been some modifications. This 
means it can avoid the policy, refuse all claims and retain the whole premium. In 
doing so Watford Insurance has acted fairly and in line with the relevant legislation. 
Its also entitled to seek to recover from Mr W the costs its paid out dealing with the 
third partys claim, although it has said it will discuss an affordable repayment plan 
with him.
She cannot ask Watford Insurance to do anything differently.
 
Mr W remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary he says he 
didnt know anything about modifications when he applied for the insurance. If hed been told 
about them he wouldve clicked yes when asked and got a different insurer so avoiding this 
problem. He told the insurer of the cars details after the accident and was honest with it. He 
thinks some of the modifications were factory supplied. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided detailed submissions about this complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
For Watford Insurance to void the policy it must show it asked clear questions when the 
policy was sold and that Mr W provided inaccurate information in response. It must also 
show that if itd been given the correct information it wouldnt have offered cover.
I think the price comparison site asked a clear question about whether the car had been 
modified. And it also gave information about what this meant and some examples of 
modifications which included cosmetic or bodywork changes.  It also said if Mr W was 
unsure about whether anything was classified as a modification he should check with the 
insurer before purchasing the policy. Despite this Mr W said the car hadnt been modified 
which wasnt correct. 
Its clear that if Mr W had correctly responded to the initial question and said the car had 
been modified Watford Insurance wouldnt have offered the policy. And as some of the 
changes to the car were cosmetic and readily apparent, I think it wouldve been reasonable 
for Mr W to have known that some modifications had been made to it even if he wasnt that 
conversant with cars. The fact the windows were tinted, the car had alloy wheels, exhaust 
tips and a vinyl wrap shouldve reasonably alerted him to the possibility of modifications 
being present. At very least I think that shouldve reasonably prompted him to contact the 
insurer to find out if these were classed as modifications. As such I think Mr Ws failure to do 
so or declare the modifications suggests his misrepresentation to Watford Insurance was 
reckless. 
Taking everything into account I think Watford Insurance was therefore entitled to cancel Mr 
Ws insurance from the start, decline to deal with his claim and retain the premium he paid.
Watford Insurance is also entitled to seek reimbursement from Mr W of what its paid out in 
dealing with the third partys claim. It has offered, it appears, to accept a slightly lower 
amount and to discuss an affordable repayment plan with him, which is fair and reasonable.
Overall, although I recognise Mr Ws frustration and strength of feeling, I think Watford 
Insurance has acted fairly and in line with the relevant legislation and I cant reasonably ask 
it to do anything more or differently. I dont see any compelling reason to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman