DRN-3344532
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1992. Mr P and Ms J say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold them the 
PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr P and 
Ms Js circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr P and Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant:
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr P and Ms Js. I havent set out that detailed
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr P and
Ms Js complaint.
As the PPI covered Mr P only, I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive explained my reasons
for this conclusion below.
There isnt much paperwork available from the time the policy was sold. But that isnt
unusual considering how long ago the sale took place, and that businesses arent required
to keep this type of information indefinitely. From the information that is available I dont
have enough to say BoS didnt present the policy as optional to Mr P, or that he didnt
choose to take it.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And
the evidence about Mr Ps circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr P was eligible for the cover and
although he had existing means he still seems to have had a need for cover. 
Mr P tells us that in addition to the means he had his parents would have helped make the 
mortgage payments if he was unable to. While I appreciate Mr Ps parents would have 
wanted to help, their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances at the 
time, which could have changed. So, I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and he seems to have had a need for the
cover. So, I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr P as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for Mr P and Ms J if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr P would have declined the cover had 
BoS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a
useful benefit in a difficult time. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely 
Mr P thought he was getting. And in those circumstances, I think that he would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mr P has also told us he felt pressured into taking the policy, but pressure is a subjective
argument and with the information I have, I dont have enough evidence to uphold this
complaint for this reason.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman