DRN-2716048
The complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement hes been paid by ERGO Reiseversicherung AG for a 
cancellation claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
Mr Gs represented by Mr L.
What happened
Mr G took out an annual travel insurance policy in December 2018 through a broker. In May 
2019, he booked a fly-cruise holiday and he was due to depart on 23 November 2019.
Unfortunately, on 30 October 2019, Mr G had to cancel his holiday after he suffered from 
post-surgical complications following Achilles tendon repair (ATR) surgery hed undergone in 
August 2019. He made a claim for the costs associated with cancelling his cruise holiday.
ERGO looked into Mr Gs claim. The cancellation section of the policy covered a 
policyholders unforeseen illness or injury. But ERGO noted that Mr G had seen a consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon on 10 July 2019 when hed been referred for ATR surgery. It said that 
the terms of Mr Gs policy stated that he needed to let it know about any changes in his 
health during the life of the policy. It felt that Mr G shouldve called up on 10 July 2019 to tell 
it about his referral and planned surgery. It said that if hed done so, it wouldve told him that 
thered be no cover for any claims related to his ATR or surgery. So it wouldve either offered 
him the option to cancel his policy and obtain a pro-rata refund or it wouldve offered Mr G 
the option to cancel his holiday and it wouldve paid the cancellation costs that wouldve 
applied at that point. 
Mr Gs travel providers cancellation costs explained that if Mr G had cancelled his holiday 
on or around 10 July 2019, cancellation costs of 10% wouldve applied. So ERGO settled Mr 
Gs claim for the deposit hed paid of £608, less the policy excess.
Mr G was unhappy with ERGOs settlement. Thats because hed paid his full outstanding 
balance on 4 September 2019  after hed undergone initial ATR surgery and his total 
cancellation costs were £6330. So Mr L asked us to look into the complaint. He didnt 
consider that ERGO was legally entitled to vary the terms of the contract once itd agreed to 
cover Mr G. And he said that in July 2019, neither Mr G nor ERGO couldve foreseen that Mr 
G wouldnt have been fit to travel in November 2019. He said Mr Gs treating doctors had 
told him in October 2019 that he would be fit to travel.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
ERGOs policy terms included a clause which required policyholders to tell it about changes 
in their health. She thought Mr Gs referral for surgery on 10 July 2019 was serious enough 
that it shouldve prompted him to let ERGO know about it. And she was persuaded that if 
hed done so, ERGO wouldve told him that there wouldnt be any cover for claims related to 
his ATR or surgery. She also thought the policy terms made it clear that ERGO would only 
be liable for the cancellation costs which applied within 72 hours of a policyholder declaring 
their change in health. In this case, Mr Gs cancellation costs wouldve been limited to the 
10% deposit. So she concluded that ERGOs settlement was fair and reasonable.
Mr L disagreed. He maintained that an insurer has no right to amend a policy once its on 
risk  and ERGO had already been on risk. He said Mr G had been contractually obliged to 
pay his outstanding balance to his travel provider by 4 September 2019, which hed done. Mr 
G added that his first treating surgeon had told him that recovery from the ATR surgery 
would take around six weeks, so hed thought hed be fine to travel as planned. He told us 
that ERGO had led him to believe hed be entitled to a full refund. Mr L also told us that Mr G 
had called ERGO in September 2019 to declare his ATR surgery and had been told he didnt 
need to do anything unless he made a claim. And Mr L suggested that if Mr G had breached 
his contract by not telling ERGO about his change in health, it would only be entitled to 
reduce its liability by the actual loss flowing from such a breach.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I sympathise with Mr Gs position, I think ERGO has settled his claim 
fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive carefully considered, amongst other things, the policy terms, the available medical 
evidence and the circumstances of Mr Gs claim, to decide whether ERGO handled it 
reasonably.
Mr G took out his annual travel insurance policy in December 2018, around five months 
before his initial fall which the doctors seem to think caused his ATR and seven months 
before he was seen by the consultant orthopaedic surgeon. 
However, like the investigator, Ive carefully considered the policy terms, as these form the 
basis of the contract between Mr G and ERGO. Page 4 of the policy booklet sets out an 
emboldened section called Changes to your health after purchasing your policy. This 
section states:
If after you purchase your policy, or before booking any new trips, any of the following 
happens:
 you are diagnosed with a new medical condition
 your doctor, or consultant changes your prescribed medication
 you receive inpatient medical treatment
 you are placed on a waiting list for investigation or medical treatment
then you must contactCustomer Services. A member of the team will ask you specific 
questions about your medical condition(s).
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional Terms 
and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or for the 
condition that has undergone significant change.
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for costs which 
cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health.Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium.
Please note that your doctor, or consultant telling you that you are well enough to travel does 
not mean that you will be covered for your pre-existing medical condition(s). If you have any 
concerns regarding whether, or not you will be covered please contact Customer 
Services.
I think this section of the policy is prominent and sets out that if a policyholder experiences a 
change in their health, ERGO requires them to get in touch and go through medical 
screening. This is a common term in many annual travel insurance policies. I wouldnt 
consider it fair or reasonable to expect a policyholder to tell their insurer about all changes to 
their health during the policy year  or all visits to the GP. But in some cases, a change in a 
policyholders health is significant enough to fundamentally change the nature of the risk an 
insurers agreed to cover. And in such situations, I would generally think it was fair for an 
insurer to expect a policyholder to tell it about their significant change in health.
So Ive next gone on to consider whether Mr Gs ATR referral to a consultant orthopaedic 
surgeon was a significant change in risk which he ought to have told ERGO about earlier. 
Ive looked closely at Mr Gs medical records. It seems that Mr G was first referred to 
orthopaedics by his GP in April 2019, following an MRI of his right ankle. This said hed had 
many years of dysfunction with his right Achilles tendon and that there were areas of tearing. 
Mr G was then referred to hospital in May 2019, with a suspected right calf DVT, following a 
fall hed had about two weeks earlier. An ultrasound taken around this time backed up that 
Mr G had a muscle tear.
Following the ultrasound, Mr G continued to experience pain in his ankle, so he was referred 
to a consultant orthopaedic surgeon. The surgeon saw Mr G on 10 July 2019 and he 
diagnosed right ATR and lengthening. He mentioned that Mr G was disabled by his right 
leg.  The consultant also noted that:
The whole calf muscle is enlarged which is unusual. It may be due to large haematoma but I
think it needs investigating so I have arranged an MRI scan of the proximal calf too.
With the achilles incompetence it is likely (Mr G) will need surgery and a reconstruction. The
most likely choice here is an FHL tendon transfer which we discussed in some length today. 
I will know more about the correct procedure once I have reviewed him again with his scans.
Based on this evidence, it seems that while the consultant surgeon gave Mr G a likely 
diagnosis and treatment plan, he intended to verify this with an MRI scan of Mr Gs leg. Mr G 
saw the consultant surgeon again the following week on 17 July 2019 and the diagnosis was 
confirmed.  The consultants letter states that he discussed the ATR surgery with Mr G and 
what the risks were, stating: these include infection, cutaneous nerve injury, failure to return 
to full strength, possible re-rupture and blood clots.
In my view, by 17 July 2019, Mr G was aware of a significant change in his health and that 
hed likely be undergoing ATR surgery. This was scheduled for around five weeks later. It 
also seems that Mr G was made aware of the potentially serious risks of the ATR surgery. 
Given he intended to have the surgery only a few months before he was due to travel, I think 
Mr G ought to have been aware that there was a risk that the surgery wouldnt go as 
planned, or that he might not be well enough to travel, even if he didnt think this was likely. 
So I think Mr G ought to have realised that his referral for surgery did represent a significant 
enough change in risk that ERGO wouldve wanted to know about it. And I think that the 
latest date Mr G ought to have been aware of this change in his health was 17 July 2019.ERGOs told us that if Mr G had called up to tell it about his referral and planned surgery, it 
wouldve told him it wouldnt cover any claims relating to that condition  whether for 
cancellation or medical expenses abroad. Mr G couldve chosen to keep the policy with an 
endorsement excluding his ATR surgery in place; to cancel the policy and get a pro-rata 
refund or to cancel the trip and make a claim for the cancellation costs that wouldve applied 
at that point.
It seems that if Mr G had cancelled his holiday on or around 17 July 2019, the cancellation 
charge which wouldve applied was the deposit of £608 hed already paid out. So I think it 
was reasonable for ERGO to limit the settlement it paid to this amount, less the policy 
excess. Instead, Mr G didnt pay the balance of the holiday until 4 September 2019  after 
hed undergone initial surgery and around seven weeks after I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for him to tell ERGO about his change in health. Ive also noted that when Mr G 
called ERGO to make his claim, he mentioned that his surgical wound started from about 31 
August 2019, which was two days after his surgery and hed said that his doctors were trying 
to get the wound to heal. This was still prior to Mr G deciding to pay the balance of his trip, 
despite being aware of possible complications.
Mr Ls now told us that Mr G called ERGO in September to tell it about his surgery. It isnt 
clear when this was and whether it was before hed paid the full balance of his trip. But I 
dont think that makes any difference to the outcome of this case  because even if Mr G 
had called then, his cancellation liability to the travel provider wouldve increased by that 
point to between 50 and 75% of the total trip cost. This is still significantly more than Mr G 
had paid out at the point I think he shouldve been prompted to tell ERGO about his 
diagnosis and planned surgery. So Im satisfied that ERGO isnt liable to pay anything more.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr G because Im aware hes lost a lot of money and 
undergone serious surgery, I think the settlement ERGO has paid him is fair and reasonable. 
So Im not telling it to pay the balance of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman