DRN-3087999
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc gave him unsuitable advice to invest in medium risk 
funds between 1996 and 2002.
What happened
Mr M met with Lloyds in 1996. He had a lump sum from inheritance to invest and said hed 
like to invest for a future lump sum. He continued to receive advice on regular contribution 
investments also. Lloyds recommended the following:
1996  Invest £10,000 into the UK Growth Fund as well as a regular contribution of £250 per 
month into the same fund.
1997  Invest £4,000 into the Worldwide Growth Fund
2000  Invest £400 per month into the UK Growth Fund held inside an Individual Savings 
Account (ISA)
2002  Mr Ms regular contribution into his ISA increased to £583 per month.
These funds were all classed as being medium risk. Mr Ms attitude to risk was classed as 
medium. Mr M complained recently that these investments presented too high a risk. He 
said he always wanted capital growth but without taking risk.
Lloyds partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. It said that as Mr M was a first-time investor in 
1996, he shouldnt have been advised to put all of his investment capital into medium risk 
funds. It paid Mr M redress to put him in the position he wouldve been in had 75% of his 
investments been in fixed rate bonds and only 25% in medium risk. It calculated this using 
the Bank of England Bond rate and the WMA Stock Market Income Index. Lloyds didnt think 
the later regular investments in 2000 and 2002 were unsuitable. Mr M felt he should be 
compensated more so brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our Investigator said, in her most recent view, that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She 
felt the redress given by Lloyds for the 1996 and 1997 advice was in line with what we would 
award. She later explained that she felt Mr Ms circumstances in 2000 and 2002 meant it 
wasnt unsuitable for him to take some risk with his money. She also felt that his overall goal 
couldve been met more realistically by taking some risk.
Mr M disagreed with our Investigators view. He said that he has always been a cautious 
investor until recently and he believes the advice was unsuitable. He doesnt feel his age 
and circumstances should be used to make the decision. He asked for an Ombudsman to 
make a decision so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has upheld part of Mr Ms complaint. It believed that he shouldnt have been advised, 
in 1996 and 1997, to invest all of his money into medium risk funds. Looking at the redress it 
has paid Mr M, I can confirm the way it has calculated it is in line with what this service 
would award so I wont be considering this further.
Ive considered whether the advice Lloyds gave Mr M in 2000 and 2002 was suitable. To do 
this Ive considered the information that Lloyds has given us from the time, as well as Mr Ms 
recollections.
In 2000, Mr M was recorded as having a medium attitude to risk. He has told us that this 
wasnt the case and he believes he had a cautious attitude to risk. Its been 20 years since 
this advice was given, so its not surprising that there isnt much paperwork available. I cant 
be sure how Lloyds assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk, but its clear that it was listed as being 
medium. So, Ive considered Mr Ms circumstances to see whether this was unsuitable for 
him. Having done so, I dont think it was.
Mr M lived in a family home. The point of sale documents show he didnt have a mortgage, 
but Mr M has told us he thinks he paid a mortgage of around £170 per month. Hes not been 
able to give us a list of his expenditure but he said aside from £60 per week on child 
maintenance, he just had usual living expenses. He had an income of around £1,600 per 
month. So, his circumstances dont suggest that he didnt have capacity to take a risk with 
his money. At this point, Mr M had already held investments in a medium risk fund, and 
appears to have made fund switches by his own choice. Whilst I dont think he was an 
experienced investor, he did have some experience. From what Ive seen, theres nothing to 
suggest that Mr M couldnt take a medium level of risk with his regular contributions. Ive 
seen that he wanted to build a lump sum for the future and taking some risk wouldve made 
it more likely to achieve that goal.
Mr M said he was cautious and was only interested in fixed rate bonds but theres nothing 
recorded from the time to suggest this was the case. I can also see Mr M had previously 
taken withdrawals to buy a luxury item, rather than his need to access the funds. So, I dont 
think the advice to invest in the UK Growth Fund was unsuitable in 2000. The funds goal 
was to produce long term financial growth which matched Mr Ms objectives  hes even told 
us he wanted to invest to build enough money to buy his brother out of the family home.
Ive considered whether the investment of £400 per month was affordable. Looking at the 
recommendation Lloyds made, it initially suggested that Mr M invest £50 per month into the 
UK Growth Fund. But it appears Mr M wanted to put £400 per month in. From what Mr M 
has told us, I cant see that this was unaffordable. And I dont think that investing in a 
medium risk fund was unsuitable for him.
In 2002, Mr M increased his monthly contribution to £583  this was the maximum amount 
he could put into an ISA. Mr M says he was told to increase it. Due to how much time has 
passed, I cant say for certain what happened. But I think its likely Mr M had the available 
amount and was advised to put it in his ISA to make the most of his tax-free savings. At this 
point I can also see that Mr Ms salary had increased. I dont think his circumstances had 
changed in a way that made the advice unsuitable. He continued to have disposable income, 
and I dont think he was in a position that meant he couldnt take some risk with his money. 
His attitude to risk was recorded as being medium in 2002 and theres nothing to suggest 
to me that this wasnt the case.
I appreciate that Mr Ms recent advisor has confirmed that from 2008 until recently, Mr Ms 
attitude to risk has been cautious. But the advice Im looking at happened in 2000 and 2002  at a time when he was looking to grow his money and had relatively low outgoings. So, I 
dont think it was unsuitable for him to take some risk with his monthly contributions to 
achieve that goal.
In summary, Im not upholding this complaint. I think the redress Lloyds has provided for the 
advice Mr M received in 1996 and 1997 is in line with what wed expect. And I dont think 
that Lloyds advice in 2000 and 2002 presented too high a risk for Mr Ms circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman