DRN-3777438
The complaint
F, a limited company, has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr C, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
F held a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox. It organises events and 
competitions at external venues.
It made a claim to Hiscox for its business interruption losses after it was unable to hold any 
events due to venues being closed following lockdown restrictions. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pursued a business interruption insurance test 
case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different 
types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court 
handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
In September 2021 Hiscox said it had reviewed Fs claim in the light of the judgment in the 
test case but maintained that cover didnt apply in its circumstances. It said Fs losses 
werent covered under the policy because government regulations hadnt prevented F from 
using its premises. It said the fact that venues where F hosted events were closed didnt 
amount to an inability to use the insured premises. Hiscox paid F £150 compensation for the 
lack of communication and delay in dealing with the claim.
F also complained about the fact that it had no event cover. Hiscox said that such cover had 
been in place until it was cancelled by Fs broker.
F brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator recommended the complaint be 
upheld in part. She thought Hiscox should pay F a further £100 compensation for the delays 
in handling the claim. 
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. 
The policy covers business interruption caused by:
4. your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority following:

an occurrence of a notifiable human disease.
So, for this term to provide cover, the interruption to Fs business would need to be as a 
result of its inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority following an occurrence of a notifiable human disease. The insured premises 
were the premises where the business was based as opposed to locations where it held 
events.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease.
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out 
which businesses were required to close for the emergency period. Significantly events 
management businesses were not on the list. So, I dont think F was required to close its 
business premises due to these regulations. There is no cover under the policy for an 
outbreak of a notifiable human disease that leads to a ban on public events.
The wording of Fs policy was considered as part of the FCA test case. The Supreme 
Court said at paragraph 129:
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 do not cover all business interruption due to 
restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease. They apply only where the interruption is caused by the policyholders inability 
to use the business premises due to such restrictions.
The Supreme Court went on to say, at paragraph 136 of the judgment:  an inability of use 
has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use. The court did also make it 
clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to 
use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. But I dont consider F has 
shown it was unable to use its business for a discrete part of its business. F has referred to 
activities it couldnt carry out but it remained an option for F to work from its premises if it 
wasnt reasonably practical for its staff to work from where they lived.
Whilst I do not doubt that F would have suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its 
business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use its business premises. As such, 
I dont think Hiscox treated F unfairly in declining its claim under this clause.
F had taken out an extension to the policy for non-damage denial of access (NDDA). That 
covered an incident during the period of insurance within the vicinity of the business 
premises which results in a denial of or hindrance in access to the business premises 
imposed by the police or other statutory authority.
The court of the first instance in the test case considered clauses such as this. The judgment 
from that court says at paragraphs 406 and 407:
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or incidents 
which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the cover is even more 
marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the incident to occur in the vicinity of 
the insured premises.Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording  as the 
telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment makes clear. Its 
significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion at [404] that In our 
judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on the requirement for an 
incident.
As part of considering this complaint Im obliged to take into account relevant case law. I see 
no reason in this case to depart from the findings of these judgments. As such, I dont think 
this extension provides cover for Fs claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy I dont think there is any area of cover that means 
Hiscox should have met Fs claim.
Mr C has expressed disappointment that Fs claim was declined as he says Hiscox was fully 
aware of the nature of its business. I dont doubt that was the case. But different policies 
cover different risks and in my experience it would be unusual for a policy to provide cover 
for every circumstance which led to an inability to trade.
F has also complained that it had no cover for events because Hiscox omitted to take 
payment for this. Hiscox says that cover was in force until Fs broker instructed it to cancel 
the cover in April 2020 due to the lack of events going forward. Ive seen the cancellation 
instruction from the broker and think it was reasonable for Hiscox to act upon it.
Although Hiscox hadnt collected the premium for this cover, there is no reason for me to 
believe that F wouldnt have been covered up to the date of cancellation. Hiscox only 
required payment for cover in respect of the period from October 2019 to February 2020 
being the period during which F held events. I think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Lastly, Ive looked at how Hiscox handled the claim. I can see that the claim was registered 
on 25 January 2021. Five months later Hiscox acknowledged the claim. In August 2021 it 
told F that it was still investigating the claim. On 14 September 2021 it notified F that it was 
declining its claim. Even allowing for the large number of cases that Hiscox had to work 
through, I think this delay was unreasonable and no doubt the uncertainty about the claim 
outcome caused F some inconvenience. I think a total of £250 is appropriate to compensate 
F for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited to pay F a further £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the 
delay on its part if it has not already made such payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman