DRN-3239440
The complaint 
Mrs G and Mr G have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them several packaged 
bank accounts over several years. 
Lloyds charged Mrs G and Mr G monthly fees for these packaged accounts and 
provided several potential benefits in return. 
Mrs G and Mr G think that Lloyds should refund them all the fees they paid and add interest. 
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G have banked with Lloyds for quite a long time and have held several 
different types of account under two different account numbers. Im not certain if these 
were always joint accounts, but Im satisfied that Mrs G and Mr G have brought their 
complaint to us jointly. 
Lloyds has looked into its records for Mrs G and Mr G and has told us that their account 
history is as follows: 
Accounts under the first account number 
Mrs G and Mr G opened a fee-free account in the mid 1980s (*) 
in the 1990s (*), Lloyds sold them a Gold account, which replaced their fee-free 
account and for which it usually charged a monthly fee, 
by September 2001 (*), Lloyds had sold them a Platinum account, which 
replaced their Gold account and for which it charged a higher fee,
in December 2008, Mrs G and Mr G switched back to a fee-free account,
in November 2009, Lloyds sold them a Premier account, which replaced 
their fee-free account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in January 2010, Mrs G and Mr G switched back to a fee-free account, 
which I understand they still have.
Accounts under the second account number 
Mrs G and Mr G had opened this account as a fee-free account by September 
2001 (*), 
in December 2008, Lloyds sold them a Platinum account, which replaced 
their fee-free account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in January 2010, Lloyds sold them a Premier account, which replaced 
their Platinum account and for which it charged a higher fee,
in February 2017, Lloyds sold them an additional package of features called 
Club Lloyds (+) for which it usually charged a monthly fee. 
(I understand Mrs G and Mr G kept the Premier account and the Club Lloyds features 
until at least June 2021, although Im not sure if they still have them).
(*) Lloyds does not have detailed records of all accounts until September 2001, so all dates 
before this are uncertain. For example, its records show that the first account had become a 
Platinum account by September 2001, but not the exact date on which this happened. 
(+) Club Lloyds was an extra package available to Lloyds customers with various types of
account, including those with no monthly fee. The features varied from time-to-time but
included potential benefits such as cinema tickets or magazine subscriptions. Lloyds
sometimes charged a monthly fee for this package. But the fee was quite a bit smaller than
for the Gold, Platinum and Premier accounts themselves. Lloyds would often provide the 
package free to customers who deposited more than a certain amount into their account 
each month.
Similarly, at some stages, some of Mrs G and Mr Gs accounts had the additional 
designation of Vantage. Again, this designation was available to customers with
various types of account. To qualify, customers had to meet certain banking criteria, but
Lloyds did not usually charge a monthly fee. The designation entitled customers to receive
interest on their current account. Lloyds withdrew the Vantage designation from all its
customers during February-March 2016. It is not a significant factor in this complaint and for 
simplicity I have not referred to it any further. 
Despite the uncertainty about exactly what happened before September 2001, I believe that 
Lloyds records are largely reliable. I have taken the above account history to be accurate. 
When Mrs G and Mr G complained to Lloyds, it didnt think it had mis-sold them any of the 
packaged accounts. However, it acknowledged that between November 2009 and January 
2010 they held both Platinum and Premier accounts, which it described as a duplication of 
cover. It accepted that this was not necessary and has paid them some compensation for 
this. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint and didnt 
recommend that Lloyds should uphold it. Mrs G and Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive 
looked into everything that Lloyds and Mrs G and Mr G have told us or sent us about the 
complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I have looked at the compensation Lloyds paid Mrs G and Mr G for the duplication 
between the Premier and Platinum accounts that I mentioned earlier. It seems to have 
refunded them the fees they paid for the Premier account and added simple interest at an 
annual rate of eight per cent. This put them into the financial position they would have been 
in if Lloyds had never sold them this Premier account. I think this is fair compensation. It is 
the same as we usually award if we find a business has mis-sold a packaged account. I 
have not therefore considered this Premier account any further.
To get a clearer view of the packaged accounts Lloyds sold to Mrs G and Mr G, I have 
combined the history from the two different account numbers and excluded their fee-free 
accounts and the Premier account for which Lloyds has already paid compensation. This 
shows that:
From the 1990s until no later than September 2001, they held a Gold account.
From or before September 2001 until January 2010, they held a Platinum account.
From January 2010 until February 2017, they held a Premier account.
From February 2017 until at least June 2021, they held a Premier account with the 
additional Club Lloyds package.
Throughout this period, the cost of the packaged accounts and the value of their benefits 
generally increased in the order Gold-Platinum-Premier. For each account, both the cost and 
the benefits varied from time-to-time.
 
Both Lloyds and Mrs G and Mr G have told us that it advised them to buy each of the 
packaged accounts. To do this fairly, I would have expected it to give them choices to have 
packaged or free accounts, tell them about the packaged accounts fees and benefits and 
check that they had a potential need for the benefits of each account before giving its advice. 
Mrs G and Mr G have made a specific point about the choice Lloyds gave them for the Gold 
account, and its cost, which I will return to later. But, as they frequently held fee-free 
accounts throughout the time in question, I think Its highly likely that Lloyds let them know 
about such accounts. And I havent seen anything to make me think Lloyds told them they 
couldnt have (or keep) those accounts. So, Im satisfied that at all stages it allowed them 
reasonable choices. 
Apart from the specific point about the Gold account, there doesnt seem to be any 
significant dispute that Lloyds told Mrs G and Mr G about the fees for the packaged 
accounts.
I also think its extremely likely that Lloyds told Mrs G and Mr G about the accounts benefits. 
After all, it wanted to sell the various accounts to them and it was in its own interest to tell 
them what they could get for their monthly fees. Furthermore, at various times, the benefits 
included insurance for mobile phones and use of a car breakdown service and Lloyds has sent us evidence that Mrs G and Mr G registered for, and used, some of these benefits. 
Therefore, Lloyds must have told Mrs G and Mr G about them. 
So, the key thing remaining for me to decide is whether Lloyds gave appropriate advice for 
each account. I have considered this question separately in each case. 
The Gold account 
As mentioned above, Mrs G and Mr G have made a specific point concerning the choice 
Lloyds gave them for this account and the way it told them about the fees. Theyve said that 
Lloyds told them the Gold account was a free option, but that Lloyds later attached a large 
fee to the account
As far as we can tell, Lloyds usually charged customers for this account even back in the 
1990s. However, until around 2004, it had an arrangement, known as a fee waiver , 
whereby it wouldnt charge the fee to customers who kept a certain amount (typically £1,000 
or £1,500) in their accounts each month. Without the fee waiver, from 1996 until 2004, the 
monthly cost of the Gold account was £8. 
I fully accept that Mrs G and Mr G are doing their best to remember what happened, but I 
doubt that Lloyds told them the Gold account would always be free. I think its more likely 
that it told them about the fee-waiver scheme, which would have been a reasonable thing for 
it to say. I acknowledge their statement that they may only have benefited from the scheme 
for some of the time they held the Gold account, but I dont hold Lloyds at fault for this. I will 
not comment on the size of the monthly fee and whether it was large, but Im satisfied that 
Lloyds gave Mrs G and Mr G a choice and let them know about the fee and the waiver 
scheme. 
As I dont know exactly when Lloyds sold the Gold account to Mrs G and Mr G, I cant tell 
what the precise benefits were at the time in question, particularly as they changed quite 
significantly during the relevant period. In January 1996, they mainly related to day-to-day 
banking such as lower charges for some overdrafts than Lloyd usually applied to customers 
with fee-free accounts. By 2001, Lloyds had introduced non-banking benefits, such as travel 
insurance, and also offered lower interest rates on some types of loan than it applied to 
customers with fee-free accounts. 
Mrs G and Mr G may well have had a potential need for some of these benefits. For 
example, I understand that they travelled from time-to-time and so may have needed travel 
insurance. And Lloyds has told us that they took two loans with the lower interest rates. So, I 
think it was reasonable for Lloyds to advise them to buy the Gold account.
Mrs G and Mr G have also told us that Lloyds said buying a Gold account would improve 
their credit score. If Lloyds had said this, it would almost definitely have been wrong, as the 
type of current account a customer holds does not usually affect her or his credit worthiness. 
Clearly, after so many years have passed, I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, 
to Mrs G and Mr G. But, as Lloyds seems to have had other reasonable grounds to advise 
them to buy a Gold account, I see little reason for it to have misled them in the way they 
have described. I doubt that it did.
I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to Mrs G and Mr G. 
The Platinum account
Once again, I dont know exactly when Lloyds sold this account to Mrs G and Mr G.Lloyds introduced the Platinum account during 2001. It provided more comprehensive travel 
insurance than the Gold account (for example, it had an option to cover winter sports) and 
use of a car breakdown service.
I understand that Mrs G and Mr G used a car and may well have required the more 
comprehensive travel insurance. So, it seems reasonable to me for Lloyds to have 
recommended they should buy the Platinum account.
I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Platinum account to Mrs G and Mr G. 
The Premier account
In January 2010, the Premier account included many of the same benefits as the Platinum 
account but offered use of a slightly more comprehensive car breakdown service, a wider 
travel insurance policy and the additional benefit of insurance for home emergencies. 
I have seen a copy of a summary form which Lloyds completed at the time it sold the 
account to Mrs G and Mr G. The summary is extremely brief, but it shows there was some 
discussion of these benefits and Mrs G and Mr Gs needs. So, I think it was probably 
reasonable for Lloyds to advise Mrs G and Mr G to buy the Premier account. 
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account to Mrs G and Mr G.
Club Lloyds
Mrs G and Mr G have not told us much about the way Lloyds sold them this package, and 
nor has Lloyds said much about it. Nor do I know if Lloyds charged Mrs G and Mr G any fees 
for the package or provided it to them free. 
With so little information available to me, I have not considered the way Lloyds sold this 
package within this decision. This means that Mrs G and Mr G can raise it further with Lloyds 
if they so wish. But I cant give them any advice about this or predict how Lloyds may 
respond. Nor can I tell if any further complaint they may bring to us will fall inside or outside 
the rules and time limits that determine which complaints we can investigate. 
In summary, I am satisfied that the compensation Lloyds paid Mrs G and Mr G for 
duplication of cover during late 2009 to early 2010 was fair. I dont think it mis-sold them the 
Gold, or Platinum or Premier accounts and I have not considered the way it sold them the 
Club Lloyds package. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs G and Mr Gs 
complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to pay them any more 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Steve TownsleyOmbudsman