DRN-4438041
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the price charged by Great Lakes Insurance SE to renew his pet 
insurance policy. 
What happened
When Mr C took out a lifetime insurance policy for his dog with Great Lakes in March 2022, 
the premium was £29.47 a month. He says he was told that on renewal the premium would 
be based on his postcode and not on any claims made by him. 
In July 2022 Great Lakes notified Mr C that it would now base renewal premiums on 
(amongst other things) claims hed made the previous year. He thought Great Lakes would 
have been aware of this when he took out the policy and should have told him about the 
proposed change at that stage. In the first year of the policy Mr C made a number of claims. 
On renewal the premium increased to £45.57 a month.
Mr C complained to Great Lakes about the amount of the increase in premium. He said hed 
been told claims wouldnt affect future premiums.
Great Lakes said while individual claims werent previously considered against individual 
policies, claims had always been taken into account against all policyholders as a group. It 
said in essence claims were pooled across all customers. It had changed the way it was now 
calculating premiums so that there was still some pooling for customers with no or very few 
claims but for those with several claims an additional increase would be placed on their 
individual premium above the amount charged to the rest of the group. It thought this was 
fairer overall. It paid Mr C £100 compensation for the shock hed received when he received 
notice of the renewal premium.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He also said it would be difficult to change insurer 
as any new insurer wouldnt cover his dogs pre-existing conditions. Our Investigator 
recommended that his complaint be upheld in part. She didnt think Great Lakes had given 
Mr C sufficiently clear information about his lifetime policy when he took it out. She thought 
Great Lakes should pay him £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by that.
As Mr C didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the significant increase in Mr Cs premium on renewal, I can understand his concern. 
He took out a lifetime policy for his dog so that his pet would be covered for any conditions 
which developed over the rest of his life so long as the policy cover continued. But this sort 
of policy is usually more expensive and the cost will almost certainly increase every year due 
to the higher risk of a claim as the pet gets older, as well as general increases in veterinary 
costs.
Insurers will also consider other factors when setting premiums. For instance, typically an 
insurer will also assess the number and value of the claims it thinks it will receive and pay, 
as well as its costs of administration. It will review those factors every year when setting the 
price for its policies. And it does that for all policyholders.
I need to be satisfied that Mr C hasnt been singled out in any way and that Great Lakes has 
treated all comparable customers fairly and equally. Ive carefully reviewed the commercially 
sensitive information Great Lakes has sent us and I havent seen any evidence to suggest it 
has treated Mr C any differently from how it would have treated any other customer in the 
same position. 
When considering complaints about the increasing cost of a lifetime pet insurance policy I 
also look at the information given to the policyholder when they first bought the policy to see 
how clearly the long-term costs of the policy were explained. But generally its not my role to 
tell an insurer what price it should charge for the risk it covers or what factors it should take 
into account when assessing those risks.
Before purchasing this policy, Mr C discussed future premium increases and was told 
premiums could increase, stay the same or go down. The sales advisor said that price 
calculations werent based on individual claims but rather on overall claims data across all 
customers. Great Lakes says that information was correct at the time. Weve previously 
taken the view that in some circumstances it might not be fair for a business to make 
changes to a policy like this if they fundamentally change the nature of the cover on offer. 
That might, for example, be the case where an insurer withdraws from the market and 
leaves a consumer without ongoing cover for a pre-existing condition their pet might have, 
which would otherwise be covered by the policy that insurer had sold.
I dont think thats the same as what happened here. Great Lakes has changed the way it 
calculates the policy premium and that does differ from what it did when Mr C first took the 
policy out. However, claims were always taken into account when calculating premiums. The 
difference is that previously claims were pooled across customers with similar characteristics 
whereas now customers who make several claims are charged more. I dont think that 
represents a fundamental change to the lifetime cover offered by Great Lakes. So while I 
appreciate the renewal premium Mr C was charged was a significant increase on the 
previous year, I dont think the premium charged to Mr C was unfair or that I should require 
Great Lakes to charge him a lower premium in future.
Ive gone on to think whether Mr C would have acted differently if hed been told that Great 
Lakes might well change its position on the impact of claims on renewal premiums when he 
first took out the policy. As he took out lifetime cover, I think he wanted the greater protection 
such a policy offers and he might well have still taken out the policy. Im also mindful of the 
fact that he hadnt had to make any claims for his dog at that point. 
However, I accept that the price increase, which was partly driven by his claims history 
would have come as an unpleasant shock to Mr C given hed been previously told that 
individual claims wouldnt affect the premium. Ive thought about the impact of that on him 
and Im satisfied that the £150 compensation recommended by our Investigator is the right 
amount to recognise his trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr C an additional 
£150 compensation for trouble and upset.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman