DRN-4036619
Complaint
Ms B has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to her.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Ms B with a first loan for £1,500.00 in July 2018. The total 
amount to be repaid of £3,062.52, which included interest, fees and charges of £1,562.52, 
was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of just over £170. This loan was settled early 
with some of the proceeds from loan 2.
 
Everyday Loans then provided Ms B with a second loan for £3,000.00 in June 2019. 
£1,046.74 of the proceeds from this loan went towards settling the outstanding balance on 
loan 1. The total amount to be repaid of £6,158.88, which included interest, fees and 
charges of £3,158.88, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of just under £350.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Bs complaint and he thought Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided Ms B with either of these loans. So he thought 
that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Bs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out reasonable checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms B could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before both loans were provided. The results of which showed that Ms B had an extended 
history of taking out payday type lending. Furthermore, a significant proportion of her 
monthly income was going towards credit repayments. And she was still borrowing from 
payday type lenders after having been provided with loan 1.
Im also mindful that Everyday Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Ms Bs 
living expenses. This is despite the fact that the information on her credit file showed she 
didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. And even then even on Everyday Loans 
calculations the payments to these loans would take Ms B right to the limit of her disposable 
income.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Ms B has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time of these loans. And while its possible Ms Bs financial position 
wasnt as a result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Bs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Bs existing financial position meant that she was 
always unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that, bearing in mind everything, reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt 
have provided these loans to Ms B. As Everyday Loans provided Ms B with these loans, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms B ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans she shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Ms B lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms B paid on her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms B to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Bs credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman