DRN-4207151
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Savings and Investments ( NS&I) has been unable to tell him 
where his Premium Bonds have gone.
What happened
Mr F says he held two Premium Bonds for the value of £5 and £50. He says NS&I has told 
him they were cancelled but he still holds the certificates. He also says he hasnt been told 
where the money went or by whom the Premium Bonds were cancelled by. Mr F would like 
them reinstated or to receive his money.
NS&I says it only holds records for six years but has now provided further information. It 
says Mr F held three Premium Bonds which were cashed in 1992. NS&I says there are 
circumstances in which a payment can be made without the original certificates.
Mr F brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think it reasonable for NS&I to keep full records going back some 30 years 
and that it likely the Premium Bonds were cashed in 1992. The investigator accepted NS&Is 
letter gave limited information.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says he doesnt have a record of receiving the £55 back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by my decision and accept that NS&Is response letters 
could have explained the position far more clearly.
I have looked at NS&Is records and can see that Mr F held three Premium Bonds and not 
two as he told us. I can see the first is for £5 and was opened in 1958. The second was 
opened in 1970 for £50. Im satisfied the details on those certificates match the information 
Mr F has provided including his address. I can also see a record of a third Premium Bond for 
a further £50 which also matches Mr Fs address and details. It is not clear when that 
Premium Bond was opened as the date isnt clear but the address is the same as on the 
1970 Premium Bond. It has a different reference to the other £50 Premium Bond.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F held a total of £105 in Premium Bonds all of which are likely to 
have been opened from 1958 to the 1970s. I can see from NS&Is records that in 1992, 
£105 was paid to Mr F in respect of the Premium Bonds he held. Im satisfied that the 
amount NS&I paid Mr F matched the value of the Premium Bonds I have seen records that 
he held. So, Im satisfied that is not a coincidence and on balance NS&I has cashed the 
Premium Bonds held by Mr F. 
I appreciate Mr F has two of the Premium Bond certificates, but Im satisfied that having 
those certificates is no guarantee they are still valid. I accept that NS&I would use alternative 
methods of verifying a customer and was not obliged to ask for the return of the certificates 
in certain circumstances.
I have looked at NS&Is records and can see it has no trace of Mr F holding any Premium 
Bonds now and I think that accords with the payment made in 1992.
I appreciate Mr F questions the lack of records held but I cant fairly expect NS&I to keep 
detailed records of a payment made in 1992. I dont think Mr F has provided evidence of 
payments made into his bank account in 1992 for £105 but accept that may be difficult due 
to the passage of time.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr F held £105 worth of Premium Bonds and that £105 was paid to 
him in respect of Premium Bonds in 1992. So, I think on balance the Premium Bonds were 
cashed by Mr F on his instructions but accept due to the passage of time that may have 
been forgotten. It follows that I cant fairly order NS&I to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman