DRN-2265787
The complaint
Mr N complains that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Pet Plan has unfairly declined part of a 
claim he made for treatment for his dog. 
For ease, Ill refer through out to Allianz.
What happened
Mr N has insured his dog, which Ill call C through Allianz for many years. C had suffered 
with pseudo or phantom pregnancies in May 2018 and April 2019. In December 2019 C 
presented again with a phantom pregnancy but it might have been another condition. C was 
given medication  Galastop  the same medication shed previously had to treat phantom 
pregnancies. 
Cs condition was confirmed a few days later as a phantom pregnancy and her medication 
continued. The treating vet also persuaded Mr N that C should be spayed, which couldnt 
happen until the phantom pregnancy had cleared and treatment finished. C was spayed in 
February 2020.  
Mr N submitted a claim for the treatment from December up to and including spaying. Allianz 
paid out some of the claim but declined to reimburse costs for the spay as these werent 
covered under the terms of the policy. Mr N complained as he thought the claim had been 
declined unfairly and that he was going to be charged two lots of excess. He didnt think that 
was right as although the policy renewed during the course of treatment it was only one 
course of treatment. 
Allianz stood by its decision to decline the claim and so it didnt uphold the complaint. Our 
investigator also didnt uphold it. She was satisfied the claim for spaying wasnt covered 
under the terms of the policy and as the treatment was two separate treatments over a 
renewal period, she felt it would have been right for two lots of excess to apply.
Mr N has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman; he feels Allianzs rejection of 
his claim has simply been rubber-stamped.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position with any complaint about a declined claim is the contract between the 
parties  the policy document and policy schedule. These set out the basis on which cover 
has been agreed. 
As with many insurance policies, an insurer will choose what risks it wants to cover and 
those which it doesnt. And most insurance policies will have exclusions and limitations. I 
have considered the policy documentation carefully to see if Mr Ns claim has been declined 
fairly and reasonably in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
What we will not pay under Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment sets out what is 
excluded from cover. This lists amongst others:
3. The cost of any treatment to prevent injury or illness
9. The cost of any treatment in connection with false pregnancy if your pet has 
received veterinary treatment for more than 2 episodes of false pregnancy. 
  
And under Conditions for Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment it says:
14. The cost to neuter your pet
The only time we will cover the cost of neutering your pet is if is carried out when 
your pet is suffering from an injury or illness and neutering is essential to treat that 
injury or illness. We will not cover the cost of spaying following a false pregnancy or 
neutering to treat a behavioural illness. Regardless of why your pet is neutered, if 
he/she suffers from complications during or after the procedure, we will cover the 
cost of treatment to deal with the complications. 
Having read the terms and conditions it appears there are a number of limitations and 
exclusions which apply, or could apply, to Mr Ns claim. Im satisfied these terms are clear 
and unambiguous such that it is fair for Allianz to rely on them. 
During the course of this complaint Mr N has sought to argue that spaying C was treatment 
for the phantom pregnancy. Im afraid I dont agree. I say this because in its correspondence 
the vet refers to prevent recurrence after the next season . Im satisfied this is a future 
event the vet is seeking to prevent. Im also mindful that the vet notes show that the spaying 
couldnt take place until the then current phantom pregnancy had run its course and the 
medication for it ceased being given for a few days. So it seems to me that spaying wasnt 
done to treat that phantom pregnancy  that had been treated by Galastop  spaying was to 
prevent further phantom pregnancies in the future. 
Im also mindful that the general conditions at (14) as set out above, also excludes cover for 
the cost of spaying following a false pregnancy. The spay C had was both to prevent a 
recurrence in the future and it was following a false pregnancy, both of which arent covered 
under the policy. 
I understand Allianz has actually covered some of the costs associated with spaying C  it 
was only the actual spay that was declined, albeit that was done in error. Im not aware that 
Allianz has sought to recoup that from Mr N and so he has had more of his claim met than 
he is entitled to under the terms of the policy. I therefore find that Allianz has fairly applied its 
terms and conditions; it did more than it was required to. 
Mr N is also unhappy that Allianz sought to apply two excesses as treatment crossed a 
renewal period. As I understand it, as part of the claim was declined only one lot of excess 
was actually applied and so this issue has fallen away. I therefore havent considered 
whether it was fair for it to do so, as the situation ultimately didnt arise. However, as Allianz 
could have declined the claim for the spay in its entirety, this is an amount that Mr N would 
have needed to meet in any event. 
I understand Mr N is unhappy the claim was declined. But as Im satisfied it was declined 
fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, I wont be asking 
Allianz to do anything further. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman