DRN-2891038
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the credit searches that have been recorded on her credit file for 
credit applications that were made for her by Jelthat Limited, trading as Newport Mazda.
What happened
Mrs J ordered a new car from Newport Mazda in March 2020. She signed an order form 
which showed that the price of the car was £24,645, she paid a deposit of £1,000, £22,145 
was to be provided by a finance company and the balance of £1,500 was to be paid by 
Mrs J.
Mrs J says that she authorised Newport Mazda to make a credit application to the finance 
company and for the finance company to make a search of her credit file. She says that she 
was told that the finance had been approved but she was contacted later in March 2020 by 
another finance company which said that her application to it for credit hadnt been 
approved. She says that two searches of her credit file had been made in March 2020 for the 
first application and that she hadnt authorised a second credit application to be made so she 
complained to Newport Mazda. The car that had been ordered wasnt supplied to Mrs J.
Newport Mazda said that it had made a second credit application when the first credit 
application had been declined. Mrs J received an e-mail from an unrelated credit provider in 
July 2020 which said that it had put a temporary hold on her account because of the updated 
information it had received from a credit reference agency, including the way in which she 
was managing her credit facilities and the number of applications for credit that shed made. 
Mrs J then complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded that the searches resulted in the e-mail that Mrs J received in July 2020 because 
four months had passed by then and Mrs J hadnt provided her credit file for April and May 
2020 and information for these months could have impacted her credit file.
Mrs J has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that the 
finance company to which the original application was made had agreed to remove all but 
one search, she didnt agree to two credit applications and Newport Mazda didnt tell her that 
the approval of her original application had been revoked. She says that a total of three 
searches were made by the first finance company and that she didnt authorise the second 
application to be made. Shes provided further extracts from her credit file which she says 
shows that the only searches carried out in April and May 2020 were for insurance which 
dont have an impact on a credit file as they are marked as enquiries.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs J clearly feels very strongly that Newport Mazda has acted incorrectly and that 
she only authorised it to make a credit application to the first finance company;
Newport Mazda says that Mrs J gave it permission to do two credit searches and it 
would never do a search with the same finance company twice;
in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mrs J had instructed 
Newport Mazda that only one credit application and search was to be made;
Mrs J had ordered a car and had agreed that £22,145 was to be provided by a 
finance company so, when the original application wasnt approved, I consider that it 
was fair and reasonable for it try to find credit for her from another provider;
that may not have been what Mrs J would have wanted, and I consider that Newport 
Mazda should have told her that her application hadnt been approved, but Im not 
persuaded that it acted against her instructions when it asked a broker to find credit 
for her;
the original finance company made a search against Mrs Js credit file in March 2020 
and it made another search when she provided it with further information about her 
income  Mrs J says that it also made a third search but she says that it has agreed 
to remove all but one of the searches that it made from her credit file  and I consider 
that to be a fair and reasonable outcome;
Mrs J received an e-mail from an unrelated credit provider in July 2020 which said 
that it had put a temporary hold on her account because it had  recently received 
updated information from [a specified] credit reference agency. This information 
includes the way in which you are managing other credit facilities and other 
information such as the number of applications for credit made;
although that e-mail does refer to the number of applications for credit made, Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it was sent to Mrs J solely 
because of the unauthorised credit searches that Mrs J says were made, or that, if 
those searches hadnt been made, a temporary hold wouldnt have been put on that 
account;  
Mrs J has provided extracts from her credit file but hasnt provided a complete copy 
of it despite being asked to do so; and
I sympathise with Mrs J for the difficulties that shes experienced, but Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Newport Mazda to arrange for any of the searches to be removed from 
Mrs Js credit file, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman