DRN-3445688
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard recorded missed 
payments on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr M has a Barclaycard and has told us his direct debit was cancelled with a new one 
instructed to collect a fixed amount. But Barclaycard says it received notice from Mr Ms 
bank that his direct debit instruction had been cancelled on 8 January 2021. 
No payments were received in January and February 2021. As a result, Mr M incurred some 
charges and Barclaycard withdrew the promotional interest rate. Barclaycard also recorded 
missed payments on Mr Ms credit file. The payments were made up in March 2021. 
Mr M complained and Barclaycard refunded charges applied and reinstated the promotional 
interest rate as a gesture of goodwill. But Barclaycard refused to remove the missed 
payments from Mr Ms credit file and said they were accurately reported. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint but thought Barclaycard had dealt 
with it fairly. Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels Barclaycards decision to record arrears on his credit file is unfair. 
Ive looked at the credit cards terms, that set out what Barclaycard will do if payments arent 
made as agreed. Ive also looked at whether Barclaycard made any errors that impacted Mr 
Ms ability to pay. 
Barclaycards terms and conditions say it can apply charges, remove a promotional interest 
rate and report arrears to the credit reference agencies if payments arent made as agreed. 
So Im satisfied there was provision for Barclaycard to note the missed payments on Mr Ms 
credit file. 
Mr M has told us he feels Barclaycards decision to report the missed payments is unfair. I 
appreciate Mr M has told us he cancelled the direct debit in January 2021 so it could be 
reinstated with a higher amount. But Barclaycard received notice from Mr Ms bank that 
confirmed the direct debit instruction should be cancelled. I havent seen anything that 
shows Barclaycard received follow up direct debit instructions after the original was 
cancelled with Mr Ms bank. 
Barclaycard wrote to Mr M when payments werent received. The letters are addressed in 
line with the details we hold for Mr M. I also note Mr Ms credit card statements showed that 
both payments hadnt been made. Im satisfied Barclaycard made the account status and 
arrears known to Mr M. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but the information available doesnt show Barclaycards treated 
him unfairly by recording the missed payments on his credit file. Barclaycard says it has to 
accurately report the payments made and Im satisfied the information recorded on his credit 
file does that. 
Barclaycard agreed to refund the charges Mr M incurred and restore the promotional interest 
rate as a gesture of goodwill. As I havent found Barclaycards made a mistake by reporting 
the missed payments on Mr Ms credit file and Im satisfied its dealt with his complaint fairly, 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman