DRN-1705086
The complaint
Mr A has complained that BUPA Insurance Services Limited didnt initially inform him of the 
special conditions it had applied to his private medical insurance policy and, when it later 
informed him and he discontinued the policy, it wouldnt refund the premiums he had paid.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr A contacted BUPA. He already held a private medical insurance policy with 
BUPA which also covered his wife, Mrs A. However, he had become concerned about its 
cost. He therefore wished to discuss switching to a cheaper policy which had come to his 
attention.
BUPAs adviser asked Mr A a series of questions about his and Mrs As medical history. She 
then confirmed the special conditions which would be applied to the policy in respect of 
specific medical conditions from which Mr and Mrs A had previously suffered. She quoted a 
price for the policy which Mr A was happy to accept. Mr A was therefore switched to the new 
policy and his previous policy was lapsed
In August 2018, Mr A received a letter from BUPA asking him to complete an enclosed 
medical history form. Since hed already answered the questions on the form in his 
telephone call with BUPA, Mr A ignored the letter.
In October 2018, Mr A again received a letter from BUPA asking him to complete the 
medical history form. Mr A again ignored the letter.
In May 2019, BUPA wrote to Mr A inviting him to renew the policy and again reminded him 
that he needed to complete the medical history form. The renewal membership certificate 
listed the special conditions which applied to the policy but these did not mention any 
specific medical conditions and instead simply said that Mr and Mrs A were not covered for 
any pre-existing conditions or symptoms.
In June 2019, Mr A completed and returned the medical history form.
In July 2019, BUPA sent Mr A an updated membership certificate. The special conditions 
now listed numerous medical conditions which were excluded from either his or Mrs As 
cover.
Mr A considered that the exclusions were so significant that they rendered the policy 
worthless. He also considered there were errors in the exclusions in that they did not 
necessarily reflect the information he had provided to BUPA. He did not renew the policy and 
complained to BUPA. He said if hed been made aware of all the exclusions which applied to 
the policy, he wouldnt have agreed to take it out in the first place. He asked for a refund of 
his previous years premiums.
BUPA explained that there had been a problem with its systems which meant the 
appropriate special conditions hadnt been added to his policy when it started in July 2018. 
Instead of issuing a membership pack at that time, it had therefore sent him the medical 
history forms so that it could address this issue. When it eventually received the completed 
form in June 2019, it was able to update the special conditions accordingly. It noted that it 
should have added a further exclusion to his wifes cover in respect of asthma but said that 
the special conditions which had been applied in July 2019 were otherwise correct. 
However, it didnt consider that it was required to refund Mr As premiums for the previous 
year. This was because it was satisfied its adviser had clearly described to Mr A all the 
exclusions which would apply to the policy (albeit that in one case she incorrectly referred to 
his right knee instead of his right hip) and he had made an informed choice to take out the 
policy under those terms.
Mr A was unhappy at BUPAs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He accepted that 
BUPA had made certain administrative errors. However, he was satisfied that Mr A was 
made fully aware by BUPAs adviser during the July 2018 telephone conversation of the full 
list of exclusions which would apply to the policy before he agreed to take it out. He therefore 
considered that even if BUPA had correctly provided a membership pack in July 2018 
showing these exclusions, it would have been unlikely to have caused Mr A to have acted 
differently.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings. He pointed out that he was aged over 80 and 
said he had found the July 2018 telephone call very long and tiring. He had understood there 
would be a review by BUPAs underwriting panel before a definitive decision was made on 
the terms of his cover. He questioned why BUPA wasnt able to extract the necessary 
information and provide him with a proper membership pack in July 2018 given that it clearly 
still had access to the call recording. He questioned why his wife didnt have the same 
exclusions as him in respect of high cholesterol and blood pressure given that he thought 
they had similar conditions.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that BUPA has acted poorly in its administration of Mr As policy. It suffered a 
system error which meant the medical information he had given it over the telephone wasnt 
automatically applied to his policy. As a result, it failed to issue him with a membership pack 
when the policy began in July 2018. And it sent him further medical history forms to 
complete without explaining the above problems, meaning that Mr A understandably ignored 
its requests. I can appreciate Mr As irritation with BUPA as I consider it could have done 
more to rectify the situation sooner including, as he points out, by simply listening to the 
original telephone call.
However, I dont consider that Mr A was prejudiced by these errors, as I explain below.
I have listened to the July 2018 telephone call. BUPAs adviser explained that under the new 
policy pre-existing conditions would be excluded. She asked Mr A whether he would like the 
policy to be fully medically underwritten (whereby Mr A would be asked questions about his 
and Mrs As medical history beforehand and any exclusions noted on the policy) or on a 
moratorium basis (whereby the underwriting would take place as and when a claim was 
made). Mr A chose the full medical underwriting option.BUPAs adviser went on to ask Mr A a series of questions about his and Mrs As medical 
history. At the end of this, there is a pause before the adviser comes back on the line and 
lists all the exclusions which would apply to the policy. Im satisfied that the adviser relays 
the information very clearly (albeit she refers in one case to Mr As right knee rather than his 
right hip). And Im satisfied that Mr A acknowledges these exclusions and shows 
understanding that they would apply. Mr A then confirmed he was happy to go ahead with 
the policy.
I recognise that the call was long and appreciate that Mr A, particularly given his age, may 
have found it tiring. However, I still consider that he agreed to take out the policy in the 
general knowledge that pre-existing conditions would not be covered and in the specific 
knowledge of how this would apply to him and his wife.  
In view of the above, and while recognising that Mr A chose not to renew the policy in 2019, 
if BUPA had correctly provided Mr A in July 2018 with a membership pack and a certificate 
confirming the specific exclusions which applied, I consider it unlikely that he would have 
reversed his decision to take out the cover. The only difference the membership pack would 
show compared to what the adviser had told him would be that it was his right hip, rather 
than his right knee, which was subject to an exclusion but I dont consider that this would 
likely have made a difference to Mr As decision as to whether to take out the policy.
Mr A has also questioned why his wife wasnt subject to some of the exclusions to which he 
was subject. BUPA has acknowledged that it should have applied an exclusion for Mrs As 
asthma. However, beyond that it is up to an insurer to decide the terms under which it is 
prepared to offer cover. I cant reasonably tell BUPA what exclusions it should apply in 
particular circumstances and I therefore have no reasonable grounds for saying it is at fault 
in this respect.
In conclusion, although BUPA made certain administrative errors in this case, I consider that 
these did not ultimately prejudice Mr A. In view of this, I dont consider it needs to refund his 
premiums for the previous policy year.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman