DRN-2302037
The complaint
Mr R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in providing him with a 
credit card in 2008 and again 2015.  Hed now like the interest and charges applied to these 
cards to be refunded.
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card with Capital One in 2008. The account went into default in 2010 
and was finally settled in 2012.  
In August 2015 Capital One accepted Mr Rs application for a credit card. Mr R began to get 
into difficulties with the payments from December 2015 and this account was finally settled in 
2012.He says he had a number of defaults on his credit file including a CCJ against him at 
the time he applied and feels Capital One didnt make proper enquiries into his finances 
before it agreed to offer him credit. Mr R says that Capital One was irresponsible in offering 
him credit and feels its made his financial situation worse. Mr R wants Capital One to refund 
the interest and extra charges hes had to pay on these cards.
Capital One rejected the complaint. It said Mr R had opened the first credit card in 2008 and 
defaulted in 2010. This was more than six years ago and, on that basis, it considered that 
under the rules, his complaint about this card was out of time to be considered further. 
With regard to the second credit card, Mr R had applied for this in 2015. Capital One said 
that before lending it had confirmed his employment status and income. It had also reviewed 
his credit file and while it noted there were a number of adverse credit entries including a 
number of defaults and a CCJ recorded against him only two of these had been applied in 
the previous 12 months. Further some of the defaulted balances had been settled, including 
the previous Capital One credit card, and 2 others were being reduced and all but one of his 
current financial agreements were in good order.  Capital One felt Mr Rs credit record was 
improving and it therefore agreed to offer a credit card with a low initial limit of £200.  It didnt 
agree its lending had been irresponsible.
Our investigator said that the rules that govern what complaints we can accept, require a 
complaint to be brought to us within 6 years of the date of the event complained of and 
within 3 years from when the consumer knew, or could reasonably have known, they had a 
cause for complaint. In Mr Rs case it was more than 6 years since hed taken out the first 
credit card and more than 3 years since it had gone into default. For that reason, he 
considered it was out of time now to be considered by this service.
With regard to the second card issued in 2015, our investigator felt Credit One had made the 
appropriate checks as to affordability before it was issued and, on that basis, he didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont agree Capital One has acted irresponsibly as Ill now explain.  Ill deal 
with each card in turn.
2008 credit card
In deciding whether we can consider a complaint we have to look at the rules that govern 
what complaints we can or cant accept. In respect of time limits, these rules, which are 
contained in the FCA handbook, say:
DISP 2.8.2R (1):
a complaint must be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service no more than;
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
Ive seen Mr R took out this card in 2008 and it defaulted in 2010. As our investigator has 
said, its reasonable to think that if Mr R had concerns about whether he should have been 
offered this card, hed have been aware of them in 2010 when the card went into default. 
Thats more than the 3 year limit set out in the rules and more than 6 years from when this 
account was first opened. 
It is possible to extend these time limits in exceptional circumstances and Ive considered 
that carefully. However, I havent seen anything to show that this would apply in this case 
and, for that reason, although I realise this may be disappointing for Mr R, Im satisfied that 
this complaint is now out of time and I cant consider it further.
2015 credit card
I appreciate Mr R feels Capital One didnt carry out the appropriate checks before agreeing 
to provide him with this card. He says he had a poor credit history, including a CCJ recorded 
against him, and feels Capital One was irresponsible to offer him more credit in those 
circumstances.
All lenders have a responsibility to make sure any lending is responsible and affordable. 
Although theres no precise list of checks that need to be done, they need to be 
proportionate to the amount of the loan and appropriate to the circumstances. 
In Mr Rs case Ive seen Capital One checked his income, his employment and his personal 
circumstances. This showed he had a salary of £16,000 a year plus a further £500 a month 
in additional income. It also took into account his credit history but while it noted hed had a 
number of adverse events recorded against him, including a CCJ, it felt Mr Rs finances 
appeared to be improving over the past twelve months. Based on this Capital One accepted 
Mr Rs application but with a low credit limit of £200. 
I can see Mr R has had a number of problems with his finances in recent years and I 
appreciate how difficult that must be. However, a poor credit record doesnt automatically 
mean that the consumer cant obtain credit and each case has to be looked at on its own 
facts.
In this case I consider Capital One did make appropriate checks before accepting Mr Rs 
application for a credit card. Im also satisfied it took Mr Rs credit history into account as the card was offered with a credit limit of only £200, which was low and significantly less than 
the limit on Mr Rs first Capital One card issued in 2008 - and which should have been 
affordable on the figures provided in the application.  Ive seen initially Mr R managed his 
account and payments as expected which doesnt suggest it wasnt affordable at the time it 
was issued.
Taking everything into account, I cant agree Capital Ones decision to offer a credit card in 
2015 was irresponsible or that it now needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman