DRN-4183211
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) declined his 
request to increase the credit limit on his credit card. Mr S is also unhappy that AESEL 
havent explained their decision for this and that they didnt consider his circumstances 
appropriately. 
What happened
Mr S has a credit card account with AESEL. In November 2022, he phoned them and asked 
to increase the credit limit, but this was refused. Mr S says the conversation he had with 
AESEL led him to believe that his request was refused based on the workings of an 
algorithm and he asked for a manager to call him back to discuss this. However, Mr S says 
this didnt happen. 
Mr S complained to AESEL about their decision not to increase the credit limit and pointed 
out that he had an exemplary credit record. Mr S also complained about AESELs customer 
service and in particular the phone call hed been promised which didnt materialise. 
AESEL didnt uphold the complaint and said the current credit limit was the maximum they 
could offer. AESEL also said they declined the limit increase because of Mr Ss available 
credit to income ratio. And they said that their internal processes were followed in respect of 
Mr Ss request for a manager to call him. 
Mr S wasnt happy and wrote to AESEL explaining the reason why hed asked for the limit 
increase and setting out why their decision wasnt reasonable. He also pointed out that he 
was still waiting to speak to someone in authority on the phone. 
Mr S referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She felt that AESEL was 
entitled to refuse a credit limit increase request in line with their lending criteria and that they 
didnt act unfairly by doing so in this case. Mr S didnt agree and pointed out that AESEL still 
hadnt replied to his last letter to them. He said hed not been given a reason for their 
decision not to increase the credit limit and reiterated that his credit record was exemplary. 
As the matter remains unresolved, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr S has said about his credit record and I can obviously 
understand his frustration about AESELs decision. However, AESEL is entitled to reject a 
credit limit increase if they wish, and we wouldnt say their decision was flawed if it wasnt 
inherently unfair. Ive seen no compelling evidence that AESEL acted unfairly, however. I 
realise Mr S will feel differently about that however lenders arent obliged to increase limits 
upon request. 
Mr S has explained to AESEL in detail why their decision was flawed. Its up to AESEL 
though to decide whether they wish to reconsider this based on that information. And while I 
appreciate Mr S feels he hasnt been given an answer about why the increase was declined, 
AESELs final response letter to him did provide an answer, in that the decision was based 
on Mr Ss available income to debt ratio. In other words, the amount of existing debt Mr S 
had compared to his income. Again, I dont doubt that Mr S feels that isnt a good reason 
and that his specific circumstances were such that the decision wasnt correct. But as Ive 
mentioned, its ultimately up to AESEL whether they wish to increase the limit. 
Mr S remains unhappy that AESEL hasnt called him to discuss this and that they didnt reply 
to his letter following their final response to him. The purpose of the final response though 
was to provide AESELs final answer to the complaint. So, I dont find that AESEL acted 
unfairly thereafter as the next step was to refer the matter to us which is what Mr S did. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman