DRN-2926802
The complaint
Mrs P complains that ReAssure Limited delayed her monthly annuity payment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Reassure made an error which meant Mrs P was deprived of the money she was due 
on 22 September 2020 until 5 October 2020.
Reassure has paid Mrs P £300 for the distress and inconvenience she was caused 
when she found the payment hadnt been made on time, and by her efforts to resolve 
the issue. This is a fair and reasonable amount given the circumstances of the 
complaint.
As she was deprived of the money, ReAssure needed to add interest to the amount 
she was due to cover the time she was without the funds. Reassure has said it added 
interest at the BoE rate + 1% and this was included in its first compensation payment 
to Mrs P. But the payment of £300 was for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
caused her, and the interest she was due shouldnt have been included in this 
amount.
And for deprivation of funds, BoE rate + 1% isnt enough interest, as it doesnt follow 
our services standard approach. The rate should be 8% simple. So on this basis I do 
not think ReAssure has done enough to resolve this complaint.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Putting things right
I require ReAssure Limited to:
Pay interest on Mrs Ps monthly annuity payment at a rate of 8% simple for the days she 
was deprived of the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs p to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman