DRN-3942806
The complaint
Mr F complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system and voltage optimiser (the system). 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr F bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over fifteen years. 
In March 2022, Mr F engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent 
Shawbrook a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system, breached its 
contract with Mr F, and that Mr Fs relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on her because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the putting it all together 
table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system more attractive.
The supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some other 
cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
Mr F also mentioned in his witness statement that he was told the savings and income from 
the system would pay for the loan by the end of the credit agreement. So, Ive also 
considered whether that was likely. 
Shawbrook did not uphold the claim and the CMC referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about this. 
Our adjudicator considered the matter and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The 
CMC disagreed but provided nothing further to be considered.
Because the adjudicator has been unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
The quote 
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mr F during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
him at that time, and he confirmed in his witness statement that the salesperson talked him 
through it. So, I think the quote provides important evidence of what was likely discussed 
before Mr F agreed to the purchase. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £8,852.00. However, the overall cost to Mr F was more, due to him paying for 
the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 180 payments of £93.62 
per month. This was £8.23 per month more than the actual amount on the credit agreement. 
But I think Mr F wouldve understood from the quote roughly how much the loan would cost 
per month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 180 monthly 
payments of £85.39. It shows the total amount payable would be £16,370.20 including the 
£1,000.00 deposit. So, I think that the monthly and total overall cost that Mr F would pay for 
the system was made clear to him when he agreed to buy it.
Allegation  the voltage optimizer saving contradicts reports available at the time of sale and 
was beyond the range of reasonableness
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time. 
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are within a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Mr Fs home and how he used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. 
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the putting it all together table, distorting the 
return on investment to make the system appear more attractive
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit. However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table in one of the 
documents that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr F knew what he was paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on the 
credit agreement. So, he could compare this to the estimated benefits before deciding to buy 
the system.
In addition to this, the repayments table in the quote did incorporate the cost of credit into 
its illustration of the benefits of the system. This table showed the annual benefit would not 
exceed the annual loan repayments during the loan term. 
The estimated performance over 30 years table also showed it would be about 25 years 
before the overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement.
Allegation - the supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some 
other cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated
The CMC has pointed to between 10% and 30% of cases it had seen against P where the 
inflation data used did not match the underlying inflation data it referred to. This does not 
strike me as a systemic issue which would lead me to think that P misled customers in every 
case. 
It appears likely to have been a result of human error rather than fraudulently or deliberately 
done to mislead. Some of those errors resulted in a lower inflation rate being used  thereby 
making the potential benefits of the system appear less than wouldve been the case if no 
error had occurred, which would make the system less attractive to customers, not more.
In this case it appears there is no suggestion that the inflation rate used didnt match the 
underlying data the supplier referred to. So, there was no detriment to Mr F in this case. And 
the quote warned that inflation may be higher or lower than the rate used. 
I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I dont think 
it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has not 
matched Ps assumption.
Allegation  Mr F was told the savings and income from the system would pay for the loan 
by the end of the credit agreement
Im not persuaded that it is likely that Mr F was told this. The repayments table mentioned 
above directly compared the benefits of the system with the illustrative monthly loan 
repayments. This showed that the benefits of the system would be less than the loan 
repayments in every year of the loan. 
The estimated benefits over 30 years table showed the total benefits would not exceed the 
total payable under the credit agreement until about 25 years  which is ten years after the 
loan wouldve been repaid. And wouldve allowed Mr F to compare his loan repayments with 
the annual benefit shown for each year. 
Elsewhere the quote also showed the total first year benefit, which was much less than the 
annual loan repayments. 
Summary
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. Or that undue pressure was applied to Mr F. Or 
that he was told the system would pay for itself within the loan term. I think the information provided to Mr F before he agreed to the purchase showed the cost 
and expected benefits of the system based on reasonable assumptions. The expected 
benefits were set out over 30 years, with warnings that those benefits were not guaranteed. I 
think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr F before he agreed to the purchase.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman