DRN-4447801
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim she 
made under her buildings insurance policy.
References to Admiral also includes its agents.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the issues and focus on the reasons for my decision and how Admiral 
needs to put things right.
On 18 December 2022, Miss D made an escape of water claim under her home
insurance policy with Admiral which provided buildings insurance cover only.
Miss D has vulnerabilities, including anxiety and depression, and says shes suffering with 
PTSD and has been unable to work since the incident happened. 
In January 2023, Miss D raised a complaint about the way her claim had been handled. Miss 
D raised, in summary, the following points.
Admirals initial notification process caused undue distress, delays and left her in an 
unsafe home without water or heating for four days.
She was unhappy with Admirals attempts to source suitable alternative 
accommodation (AA). Ultimately, a disturbance allowance (DA) of £15.
The progress of works was poor with no contact from Admirals agents to organise 
cleaning or the start of works.
The overall lack of communication from Admiral and its agents since the start of the 
claim had been poor.
The above had all led to further distress, inconvenience, and delays.
In February, due to a lack of availability of contractors, the loss adjuster offered Miss D a 
cash settlement. Miss D accepted this, and the final settlement figure of £7,620 was 
recommended to Admiral in its report dated 23 February. This was paid to Miss D on 27 
February and based on an estimate Miss D obtained as well as an advance payment for a 
DA allowance up to 4 May 2023 to cover the wait for the contractor to start the works and 
time needed to carry out the work.
In March, Admiral sent Miss D its response to her complaint. It agreed there were occasions 
where its service and communication couldve been better, including that of its agents. It 
agreed there had been delays during the claim. So, Admiral offered Miss D £400 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused including £50 for the time it took to 
respond to her complaint. 
Miss D wasnt happy with this, so she referred the matter to this service for an independent 
review. The Investigator looked into matters and thought Admiral hadnt done enough. To 
put things right, she recommended the following:
1.Admiral should arrange for moisture readings to be carried out in all the rooms. Then 
a full scope of work would need to be completed. Due to the way Miss D has been 
treated, a cash settlement would then be more appropriate.
2.Increasing the compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to £1500.
Admiral agreed to this. Miss D didnt  she made a number of points including the following:
She has AA of £30,000 but hasnt been paid anywhere near this amount in DA nor 
enough to cover the total time shes been away from home. She feels DA should 
have been paid to her in addition to AA and shes had no AA.
Continuing to deal with Admiral had put her in mental, physical and financial turmoil 
and fear the impact it would have on her employment if she was not able to show any 
signs of being ready to return in the near future.
Her therapist recommends she sell the house and require Admiral to pay for any loss 
suffered on the sale value as a result of the outstanding works.
The Investigator took the above points into account and issued a further view. She didnt 
endorse changing the compensatory award, but recommended Miss D obtain three 
independent quotes for the work that needs to be carried out (including drying out and 
covering the full scope of work) and Admiral to cash settled based on the same.
Admiral agreed to the revised view. Miss D didnt  she made a number of points including 
the following:
She doesnt want to liaise with Admiral at all.
After having one builder out, hed said there is a lot of secondary water damage 
which cant be assessed until the kitchen is removed and this may delay the new 
kitchen being fitted by 3  6 months which would mean she wasnt able to live there 
for a further period.
Admiral needs to further consider the time shes been out her home and impact of 
this on her because of its neglect and carelessness and she set out in detail the 
impact this matter has had and continues to have on her. 
The Investigator asked Miss D to include the builders view in the quotation and any 
information about alternative accommodation needed so this can be considered in any cash 
settlement. They also explained all of Miss Ds concerns were considered when the 
recommendations were made. So, these points didnt change the Investigators view.
Miss D says she waited for Admiral to make payment to her but only the compensatory 
element was paid. Admiral contacted her and said this was seemingly to organise a site visit 
to look at providing a cash settlement. The Investigator asked Admiral to settle the claim as 
it had agreed to  which didnt involve a further site visit - and requested no further contact 
was made with Miss D as it was causing further distress to her. This went on for a number of 
weeks without Admiral responding to this service. As a result, the matter has now been 
passed to me for a decision. 
I raised a number of queries with Admiral and it responded to answer the same as set out 
below. It sincerely apologises for the delays and issues faced by Miss D. 
Admiral explained, in summary, the following.
1. There is no breakdown of materials or labour in either of the quotes provided for 
£9,500 and £9,700. Admiral is concerned some works may have been missed. For example, no allowance is evident for drying out works or an understanding of the 
secondary damage referred to by Miss D. 
2. Its unclear what works Miss D completed with the settlement paid to her in February 
2023.
3. To progress matters, it needs to inspect the property to establish exactly what work is 
needed and provide an updated settlement for the works required. It suggests doing 
this:
a. with Miss D present (or through a representative), along with her chosen 
contractor and one of its surveyors; or
b. Through Miss D asking the two contractors to supply images and a detailed 
breakdown of the works required including materials/labour and all work 
warranted. 
Admiral says, upon completion of the above, it will then re-calculate the scope of 
works and cash settlement and reconsider whether any DA payments are 
appropriate since the last payment was made.
4. To allow it to settle the claim, it needs to communicate with Miss D although it has 
offered to do this through someone acting on Miss Ds behalf.
My provisional decision was shared with both parties on 30 October and an anonymised 
extract is set out below.
Firstly, I think its important to say that I recognise Miss D doesnt want to deal with Admiral 
again and the contact from Admiral has been causing her distress. However, Im not 
currently satisfied a cash settlement is the most appropriate approach in this matter either. 
This is because Im not content the full scope of works have been identified on which to base 
any further cash settlement (if any is due). There hasnt been a damp report nor assessment 
of any necessary drying out works. I also note Miss D says one of the contractors she had a 
quote from said there was a lot of secondary water damage, but this isnt detailed in the 
quotation from either contractor. Further, if theres work above and beyond that which was 
cash settled in February, there would also need to be an assessment of the impact of the 
delay in those works starting on Miss D.
I also note there are some works in the quotations from Miss D, such as two new windows 
and doors, which I wouldnt have ordinarily expected to see as repairs arising from a claim 
like Miss Ds.
So, whilst I acknowledge the strength of feeling Miss D has described, I must balance this 
with the fact an award by me requiring a cash settlement to be paid before the above issues 
are resolved and a full scope of works produced by Admiral carries a high risk its not going 
to be adequate and would lead to further problems.
Putting things right
I dont consider Admiral has done enough in this matter when handling Miss Ds claim. And I 
note Admiral accepts responsibility for failing to do a moisture assessment/drying or 
ensuring the same were covered in the works which were cash settled. So, I currently intend 
to direct Admiral to put things right by taking the following steps.
1. Arrange to attend the property (within a reasonable period of being told Miss D 
accepts this decision) to take moisture readings, assess the property and produce a 
fully costed scope of works of the repairs needed to put right the damage caused by 
the escape of water claim in this matter.
The scope of works will need to:a. Specify any works identified as a result of moisture readings (as appropriate).
b. Identify any works which were included in the cash settlement with Miss D in 
February 2023 but have not yet been completed by her. These works will 
need to be costed but the money paid for them should be taken away from 
the overall total on the basis they have already been paid for (either fully or in 
part).
c. Identify if Miss Ds contents need to be stored so work can be carried out and 
likely cost of the same.
d. Be fully costed (without using discounted rates as its was Admirals choice to 
cash settle the claim originally).
The scope of works should be shared with Miss D within a reasonable period of it 
being completed.
2. Miss D then has 14 days from the date the costed scope of works has been shared 
with her to obtain any quotes from her own contractors for the work and submit these 
to Admiral for its consideration. Miss D will need to ensure the quotations are for all 
items in the costed schedule of works excluding those which shes already had a 
cash settlement for.
3. Upon the expiry of the above deadline, Admiral should make an offer to Miss D to 
cash settle the claim.
4. If works are identified - above and beyond those which were cash settled in February 
2023 - Admiral should consider whether:
a. Miss Ds contents still need to be stored so work can be carried out and the 
likely cost of the same.
b. If Miss D wants to be considered for AA, she needs to notify Admiral of this. It 
should consider this request and, if AA is agreed, do so considering Miss Ds 
reasonable requirements. Although Admiral would ordinarily use an agent to 
locate suitable AA, given her specific requirements, it may be helpful if she 
gathers a list of viable AA options which shed find acceptable to support this 
process.
c. Any further DA should be paid to Miss D:
i. For any period between 4 May 2023 to the date of the scope of works.
ii. From the date of the scope of works to the likely end of any lead in 
period; and
iii. For the estimated time it will take to complete the works.
Miss D finds contact with Admiral distressing, so I think its important to mention shes able 
to appoint a representative and doing this is likely to help matters progress as swiftly as 
possible. I say this particularly as Miss D will need to be as flexible about the times and 
parameters of Admirals inspection as she possibly can. This will help to bring the matter to a 
timely close which I sense both parties are keen to achieve.
In terms of Admiral, I understand it may be able to offer reasonable adjustments which would 
support the contact Miss D (or her representative) has with it, such as allocating Miss D a 
designated file handler and ensuring appointments for any visits are agreed on the phone in 
advance. If this would be helpful, Miss D can explain this in her response so its requested 
through this service before the matter is concluded.
CompensationMiss D says the compensation awarded by the Investigator of £1,500 isnt enough and 
Admiral needs to further consider the time shes been out her home and impact of this on 
her, particularly considering the alternative accommodation (AA) on her policy and 
disturbance allowance (DA) shes been paid. But I dont see things the same. Ive 
considered the following points in reaching this conclusion.
1. Miss D received poor service from Admiral. Im also aware she continues to suffer as 
a result of the escape of water and Admirals handling of this claim. But I have to 
distinguish between the distress and upset that Miss D suffered because of the 
escape of water and its consequences, which Admiral isnt responsible for, with what 
Admiral did or failed to do that mightve added to that distress. For example, the need 
for Miss D to move out of her home - whilst understandably disruptive and distressing 
 is a consequence of the water making her home inhabitable rather than something 
which is Admirals responsibility. 
2. I can see from what has been said by Miss D that she has found this claim 
understandably stressful. And its my view there have been times when Admiral failed 
to take this matter seriously or recognise the impact its actions (and inactions) were 
having. I say this because it failed to put things right by ensuring the claim was 
progressing as it shouldve been despite a number of opportunities for it to do this. 
3. I note Miss D told Admiral shed prefer to stay with people close to her rather than go 
into AA at the outset of the claim but now says the time away from home has had a 
significant impact on her which should be compensated. I dont doubt Miss D 
incurred extra costs  this often happens when you relocate to live in a family 
member or friends home. However, Admiral paid £15 a day as a DA to Miss D. The 
DA is designed to reflect the actual costs a consumer has incurred and so theyd 
usually be required to evidence their normal costs before the claim, as well as the 
costs incurred throughout the claim. However, industry practice is that the allowance 
should be paid at a rate of £10 per day for each adult living at the insured property as 
not everyone keeps receipts for everyday expenses. So, I consider Admiral took a 
pragmatic decision to give a disturbance allowance to Miss D and I note this is more 
than this service would usually recommend (without evidence of the expenditure). 
And I dont consider it should pay compensation in addition to this. The time she has 
been paid DA may need to be adjusted but, at the time of writing, and without the 
above steps having been completed, this isnt something I can determine in this 
complaint.
4. Miss D agreed a cash settlement in February and was paid DA until 4 May as part of 
this. The cash settlement shouldve been used to carry out the works which wouldve 
allowed Miss D to move back into the property swiftly, even if there were still some 
works outstanding. If this had been done, there wouldnt have been any further need 
for AA or DA and the impact on Miss D wouldve been greatly reduced. But I havent 
seen any evidence this happened. So, whilst I dont agree Admiral has conducted 
itself as Id have expected it to, Im also mindful there were steps Miss D shouldve 
taken to mitigate the loss and impact on her. 
Taking everything into account, I consider the total compensation of £1,500 Admiral has paid 
to Miss D to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve Miss Ds complaint for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in this matter to date. And its likely more than I wouldve awarded. I 
think the significance of the amount adequately recognises the failures Admiral and their 
agents have made which have elongated the claim process and added further distress and 
inconvenience in addition to what Miss D wouldve experienced due to the escape of water 
itself.
Im sorry Miss D may feel disappointed with this outcome overall, but I am hopeful the above 
provisional decision gives her a pathway towards being able to bring matters to a close.Miss D responded  she doesnt feel the provisional decision is fair and raised some new 
concerns and repeated points made previously. In summary, this includes the following:
- The Loss Adjuster told her the kitchen needed to be stripped out to assess if there 
was any further damage but then didnt do this.
- People who have never experienced mental health have no idea how it effects 
people. The claim has been incredibly difficult, and she needed her insurer to help 
her at a time when she was at her wits end. She now feels shes no further forward 
and she doesnt have the energy for this. Shes a vulnerable person in a vulnerable 
position and she feels this has been disregarded. 
- Admiral didnt comply with the Investigators recommendation and wont do what it 
says. Miss D asks if theres any alternative to this resolution to bring this to an 
immediate close.
- She has completed the work which was settled by Admiral, and the reason windows 
and doors were included is because theyre wooden.
- The Ombudsman worked with Admiral to make this decision as Admiral asked her to 
get in touch on 6 October, but she was only notified of the provisional decision on 30 
October.
Admiral responded with further answers to questions itd already responded to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the parties replies to the provisional decision and theyve not persuaded me to 
change my provisional decision. 
In response to the specific points raised by Miss B, I respond as follows:
- I agree Admiral didnt do what it shouldve at the outset of this claim. This is why Ive 
upheld Miss Ds complaint and made the redress award I have. I say this 
notwithstanding the concerns raised by Miss D about her mental health and 
vulnerabilities. I want to reassure Miss D the findings reached by me have taken this 
into consideration. That said, Im still not satisfied a cash settlement is the most 
appropriate approach in this matter to put things right for the reasons set out above. 
So, whilst I acknowledge Miss Ds strength of feeling about a continuing relationship 
with Admiral and difficulties she faces as a vulnerable person, I havent seen any 
evidence which persuades me to depart from my provisional findings. 
- If Miss D accepts this decision before the deadline, it will be legally binding on both 
parties. This means Admiral must put things right in the way the final decision tells it 
to. If it doesnt, the decision may be enforced through Miss D taking legal action.
- The works required to put right the damage caused by the escape of water will be 
considered in the scope of works. This will include matters such as whether 
replacement doors and windows are appropriate.
- This matter has been decided impartially. Further, the contact from Admiral on 6 
October to Miss D was to discuss the Investigators recommendations with her. And 
the matter was passed to me for a decision after this date.
It follows my final decision reflects my provisional decision. And I set out below how Admiral 
should put things right as a result.Putting things right
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited need to put things right by taking the following steps.
1. Arrange to attend the property (within a reasonable period of being told Miss D 
accepts this decision) to take moisture readings, assess the property and produce a 
fully costed scope of works of the repairs needed to put right the damage caused by 
the escape of water claim in this matter. 
The scope of works will need to:
a. Specify any works identified as a result of moisture readings (as appropriate).
b. Identify any works which were included in the cash settlement with Miss D in 
February 2023 but have not yet been completed by her. These works will 
need to be costed but the money paid for them should be taken away from 
the overall total on the basis they have already been paid for (either fully or in 
part).
c. Identify if Miss Ds contents need to be stored so work can be carried out and 
likely cost of the same.
d. Be fully costed (without using discounted rates as its was Admirals choice to 
cash settle the claim originally).
The scope of works should be shared with Miss D within a reasonable period of it 
being completed.
2. Miss D then has 14 days from the date the costed scope of works has been shared 
with her to obtain any quotes from her own contractors for the work and submit these 
to Admiral for its consideration. Miss D will need to ensure the quotations are for all 
items in the costed schedule of works excluding those which shes already had a 
cash settlement for.
3. Upon the expiry of the above deadline, Admiral should make an offer to Miss D to 
cash settle the claim.
4. If works are identified - above and beyond those which were cash settled in February 
2023 - Admiral should consider whether:
a. Miss Ds contents still need to be stored so work can be carried out and the 
likely cost of the same.
b. If Miss D wants to be considered for AA, she needs to notify Admiral of this. It 
should consider this request and, if AA is agreed, do so considering Miss Ds 
reasonable requirements. Although Admiral would ordinarily use an agent to 
locate suitable AA, given her specific requirements, it may be helpful if she 
gathers a list of viable AA options which shed find acceptable to support this 
process.
c. Any further DA should be paid to Miss D:
i. For any period between 4 May 2023 to the date of the scope of works.
ii. From the date of the scope of works to the likely end of any lead in 
period; and
iii. For the estimated time it will take to complete the works.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint. To put things right, Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman