DRN-3920256
The complaint
Ms F complains about the interest rate on her mortgage with NRAM Limited. She also 
complains that it wouldnt accept an offer she made to pay a reduced settlement figure to 
bring the loan to an end. 
What happened
Ms F has had a mortgage with NRAM for many years, having taken it out with the former 
Northern Rock before the global financial crisis. Its a buy to let mortgage, but Ms F has been 
living in the property for some time. The mortgage is on interest only terms.
Ms F has complained about this mortgage before. In 2019 I issued a decision in which I 
found that (i) it wasnt unfair that Ms Fs mortgage had been on NRAMs standard variable 
rate (SVR) since 2009, since that was what her mortgage offer said would happen and 
NRAM didnt offer new fixed rates to any customers; and (ii) that the level of the SVR NRAM 
had charged wasnt linked to the Bank of England base rate and wasnt unfair.
Also in 2019, in a separate complaint, we said that NRAM should give Ms F consent to live 
in the property even though this was a buy to let mortgage for one year, until March 2020. 
In 2020, in response to a further complaint, another ombudsman referred back to the 2019 
decisions and said that we wouldnt reconsider those matters. 
In March 2022, Ms F wrote to NRAM. She said that she had experienced serious ill physical 
and mental health issues, which she said was related to the high amount of interest shed 
paid over the years. She said she couldnt move her mortgage to another lender and was 
struggling to keep up with the repayments. She said a relative had offered to gift her 
£120,000 to clear her mortgage and she asked NRAM to accept this in settlement of her 
outstanding balance.
NRAM didnt accept that offer. It said Ms F had borrowed around £170,000 and the balance 
had increased since then due to fees and arrears. So £120,000 wouldnt repay what she 
owed. It said that it was entitled to payment in full under the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage and wouldnt agree to accept less. 
As a result, Ms F brought a further complaint. She again complained about the interest rate. 
And she said that it wasnt fair that NRAM hadnt accepted her offer. Ms F said this wasnt 
fair because it didnt take into account the fact that shed paid a considerable amount of 
interest over the years and so even with a reduced settlement she would repay in total much 
more than shed borrowed. She also complained that NRAM hadnt continued to allow her to 
live in the property, which meant she had to move back into her other property and lose the 
income from renting it out as a holiday let. Separately, Ms F paid off her mortgage in full. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld so Ms F asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the health problems and other difficulties Ms F has experienced.
Ive previously considered the interest rate applied to her mortgage in 2019, and it wouldnt 
be fair to re-open that now. So in this decision Ill only consider the fairness of interest 
charged to her mortgage since the previous complaint.
Ms Fs mortgage was on NRAMs SVR. NRAM doesnt offer new fixed rates to any 
customers, and so Ms F wasnt being treated less favourably than other customers. Theres 
no requirement either in law, the rules of mortgage regulation (though as a buy to let 
mortgage this isnt a regulated agreement) or the terms and conditions that obliged NRAM to 
offer her a new fixed rate, or a lower interest rate, once her initial deal expired in 2009. And 
so I dont think NRAM acted unfairly when it didnt offer Ms F a new interest rate between the 
previous complaint and the redemption of her mortgage in 2022.
Ive also considered the fairness of the interest charged in this period by reference to the 
level of the SVR. In doing so, Ive taken into account previous changes to the SVR which, 
taken together, contributed to the level of the SVR charged during the period I can consider 
 even if those previous changes occurred before that period. NRAM is entitled under the 
terms and conditions to vary the SVR from time to time, subject to the limits on doing so in 
the terms and conditions. Primarily, it has changed the SVR from time to time to take 
account of changes in external rates such as the Bank of England base rate, and to reflect 
changes in the costs of funding its mortgage business. Ive not seen any evidence that it has 
set or varied the SVR in an unfair way and so I dont think I can reasonably find that the level 
of the SVR it charged since the last complaint was unfair. 
Ms F also complains that NRAM didnt continue the consent to let, meaning she had to move 
out of this property and back into her other property, which was previously a source of 
income. The previous decision said that NRAM only had to allow Ms F to live in the property 
until March 2020, and its not appropriate for me to re-open that issue now. 
Finally, Ive thought about whether NRAM ought fairly to have accepted Ms Fs reduced 
settlement offer. I understand why she felt maintaining the mortgage was difficult and that it 
would help her to be able to pay it off. But Ms F did borrow the money, and NRAM is entitled 
to expect that she pays it back as agreed  which includes not just the original balance but 
also the interest charged on it. Ive found both in 2019 and again in this complaint that the 
interest NRAM has charged is not unfair, and I dont think I can fairly expect that NRAM 
ought to have agreed to waive a substantial part of the capital it was owed. Where a 
customer is in financial difficulty, as Ms F was, I would expect a lender to show reasonable 
forbearance  but that doesnt generally include writing off a large part of the outstanding 
balance. I think NRAM gave fair consideration to Ms Fs request, but ultimately did not act 
unreasonably in not agreeing to it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 Simon Pugh
Ombudsman