DRN-2905687
The complaint
Mr D has complained Bank of Scotland plc provided refunds on his current account for 
unauthorised transactions but then offset this by debiting his credit card account.
What happened
In the first fortnight of June 2019 Mr D went overseas. His Bank of Scotland (BoS) debit card 
was stolen and used without his authorisation. When he got back home he complained to 
BoS. On 18 June 2019 BoS refunded more than 60 individual transactions along with 
matching fees originally charged to his account.
Mr D believed his credit card (held with another bank, who Ill call H) was then debited 
£1,400. He believed this was BoS clawing back the refunds theyd given him. Mr D brought 
his complaint to the ombudsman service. Mr D also brought complaints to us about his credit 
cards with H and another bank as well. 
Our investigator wasnt initially able to get a case file from BoS to show what happened 
when Mr D complained about his unauthorised transactions. As she believed Mr D hadnt 
been refunded at all she felt BoS should refund him.
BoS then sent through further information about this complaint which theyd confused with 
other complaints Mr D had with us about his BoS account. On review our investigator 
believed the statements showed Mr D had been refunded the disputed transactions that had 
taken place on his debit card. These had been refunded on an individual basis to reflect the 
numerous individual transactions that had been disputed. Whilst our investigator could see 
Mr Ds credit card account had been re-debited £1,008.19 in September 2019, she didnt 
think this related to the transactions on Mr Ds current account. She therefore wasnt 
planning on asking BoS to do anything further.
Mr D felt cheated. He was adamant that the transaction withdrawing funds from his credit 
card related to the disputed transactions on his current account using his debit card. Our 
investigator attempted to reassure Mr D that her answer was the correct one. He remained 
unhappy.
Mr Ds complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mr D and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 18 March and 27 May 
2021. These cover what happened and Im not planning to repeat all that was said there.
I know Mr D has a number of live complaints at our service, not just about other aspects of 
his account with BoS but other credit card relationships. Im sure that will have made it 
difficult to keep abreast of all the differing detail of his complaints so Id like to reassure him 
that Ive reviewed this complaint afresh on his behalf.
I believe the facts speak for themselves. Mr D disputed transactions on his current account 
in June 2019 that happened overseas. BoS accepted these were fraudulent. All of the 
transactions were refunded on 18 (and a couple on 19) June 2019.  
H is a separate legally-constituted bank from BoS. There is no right for BoS to offset 
disputed transactions by debiting his account with another bank. And there is no evidence to 
show thats what happened.
Mr D has a credit card account with H. He had previously disputed a number of transactions 
on that account and requested H to carry out chargebacks. I believe it is most likely that the 
transaction for £1,008.19 that was re-debited to Mr Ds credit card relates to one of those 
chargebacks. Im satisfied it does not relate to transactions carried out on his BoS debit card.
I appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling on this issue. However I am in no doubt what he 
thinks happened, didnt. This brings to an end Mr Ds complaint about the disputed 
transactions on his BoS account in June 2019 which I can see were rightfully refunded to 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman