DRN-3029186
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2007. 
Mr L says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. We 
asked but didnt receive more from Mr L about health issues he had before the sale. Hes 
told us hed been with his employer for one year at the time of the sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint and said that, although Halifax says it 
didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer as if it 
had. Mr Ls representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points, but repeated complaint points and arguments made previously. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event, Halifax has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr L has said the PPI was just included with his mortgage. But what I have suggests it 
was arranged many years after his mortgage started, and at a time when he was making 
a partial repayment of his mortgage. So what Mr L has said doesnt persuade me the PPI 
was just added without his agreeing or being given a choice. 
I think it more likely Mr L was aware the PPI was something separate from the mortgage, 
and knew he didnt have to take it to have his mortgage, because hed had the mortgage 
for many years without it. Also, what we know of how Halifax sold PPI like this in its 
branches gives me no reason to think Mr L wouldnt have been given a choice about it. 
Taking everything into account, on balance I think it more likely Halifax made it clear 
Mr L didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr L, so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence about his circumstances at the time, shows the policy wasnt unsuitable for 
him. For example, he was eligible for it and what hes told us about his work benefits and 
length of service makes me think he still had a need for the cover as hed suffer a loss of 
income if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment for a longer time. Also, Mr L 
has said he had savings he couldve used to pay the mortgage. But he chose not to use 
these to reduce the mortgage when he took the PPI, and the PPI benefit wouldve helped 
him continue to keep those savings intact, or free for other uses at what could be a hard 
time if Mr L were unemployed or too sick to work. 
Mr L couldnt claim for work absences if due to a pre-existing chronic health condition or, 
except in limited circumstances, pre-existing health issues of other kinds  and the policy 
limited payments for back pain in some circumstances, with evidential requirements that 
were more onerous for it in others. But, taking into account what Mr L could still claim for, 
what hes told us about his health issues doesnt make me think these were of concern 
to him at the time of the sale such that their exclusion ought to have made Halifax think 
the cover was no longer worthwhile for him. Also, nothing about Mr Ls employment or 
job wouldve made it hard for him to claim, it looks like the cover was affordable and, in 
light of all Ive said above, Im not persuaded it was unsuitable for him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it - so it looks to me like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt unsuitable for him, as I concluded above  so it seems 
like it wouldve been useful if something went wrong in the circumstances it covered. 
Also, what I have doesnt persuade me Mr Ls decision to take it wouldve changed if he 
had been told more about how the terms would affect his ability to claim for pre-existing 
health issues. I also think it unlikely he wouldve taken it without a broad idea of the cost. 
Overall dont think it likely the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr L thought he 
was buying from the information its likely he was given  and, with this and all Ive said 
above in mind, I dont think he would have declined it had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy also contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for him  and I think he would 
have still thought he had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr L wouldve still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances at the time, it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time in the circumstances it covered if he were 
to have lost his job or become too sick to work. I also think it was sufficiently close to what 
its likely he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think that he wouldve 
taken it in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax 
should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
Mr Ls representatives have not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ls representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr L should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr L about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr L wouldnt have taken the policy 
had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us the commission for Mr Ls PPI was less than half of what 
he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and, based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied the commission in Mr Ls case was less than half the cost of 
the PPI. 
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy;
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr L about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr L unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr L back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mr L some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr L as if it had treated him unfairly  so, I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ls complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr L paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. Halifax 
should now make arrangements to pay Mr L if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman