DRN-2809518
The complaint
Mr L complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) unfairly accepted him as the guarantor on 
his sons loan. 
What happened
TFS provided Mr Ls son with a loan for £5,000 in January 2015. It was repayable over 36 
months. The monthly repayments were £242 and the loans Annual Percentage Rate (APR) 
was 48.9%  which, when applied to the amount borrowed over the 36-month term, 
amounted to £3,712 in total. As a result, the total amount payable was £8,712. The loan was 
secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, with Mr L standing as guarantor.
Mr Ls son was unable to pay the first repayment on time  due at the start of March 2015  
and then he only managed to pay £200 that month. He was also unable to pay his second 
repayment on time but brought his account (including the shortfall from the previous month) 
up to date within ten days of the payment falling due. Mr Ls son made no further 
repayments to the loan and TFS issued a notice of default in July 2015. TFS then turned to 
Mr L as guarantor to repay the loan. 
Mr L made two payments of £280 and a third £50 payment towards the loan. When he also 
couldnt pay, TFS took Mr L and his son to court and obtained a judgment ordering both to 
repay the debt. Mr L borrowed from his in-laws so that he could repay the debt after TFS 
obtained a charging order against his property. Mr L paid £7,300 to clear the debt in 
February 2016.
Mr L complains TFS didnt do enough to check his finances and personal situation to make 
sure he was able to repay the loan if his son could not.  Mr L also complains that TFS was 
unsympathetic when he couldnt manage the monthly payments and didnt signpost him to 
any sources of help or advice. And he points to TFS getting a court order against him as a 
source of immense stress and anxiety, cumulating with the embarrassment of approaching 
his in-laws for a loan.
Mr L joined his son in bringing the complaint to begin with. But they have since complained 
individually to this service under separate references. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think TFS had acted 
irresponsibly by accepting Mr L as guarantor on this loan. And so he didnt think there was 
anything the lender needed to do.  
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators assessment, and so the complaint was passed to 
me to make a decision about the matter. Ive not seen that the court examined the decision 
to lend to Mr Ls son or the decision to accept Mr L as guarantor and so I see no reason not 
to consider this complaint. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Im intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr L irresponsibly. And I 
think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did TFS lend to Mr Ls son responsibly?
Did TFS obtain Mr Ls properly informed consent before binding him to the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement?
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L was 
able to repay the loan in the event his son failed to do so? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did TFS approve Mr L as the guarantor fairly?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
Did TFS lend to Mr Ls son responsibly?
While Mr Ls son has brought a separate complaint about this lending, it is not possible to 
ignore the outcome of that complaint as it directly impacts the considerations required for 
Mr Ls own complaint. 
Ive issued separately a provisional decision looking into Mr Ls sons complaint about 
whether TFS lent to him responsibly. Both Mr Ls son and TFS are aware of my full 
provisional findings and in summary, I said the following.
TFS needed to satisfy itself that Mr Ls son, given his circumstances at the time, could repay 
the loan in question in a sustainable way. I didnt think the checks TFS carried out on his 
sons application were reasonable or proportionate. I provisionally found that there were 
significant shortcomings in the way TFS responded to the information it gathered as part of 
the checks it carried out. And had they properly considered the information gathered TFS 
ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr Ls son would be able to 
sustainably repay the loan. So TFS should have concluded that it was not appropriate to 
lend to him. 
It follows that as I dont think TFS should have agreed lending to Mr Ls son, so TFS ought 
reasonably to have concluded that it was inappropriate to ask Mr L to guarantee his sons 
loan.  
It means that I dont need to make further findings in respect of whether TFS obtained Mr Ls 
properly informed consent; whether TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr L was able to repay the loan; or whether TFS approved Mr L as the 
guarantor responsibly  because TFS should have never agreed to lend to Mr Ls son.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
For the reasons outlined above, I'm satisfied that TFS failed to act fairly by approving Mr L 
as the guarantor. As a result of being approved and the later enforcement of a guarantee  
which shouldnt have stood  Mr L says that he and his family have been caused 
considerable stress and anxiety. 
Mr L had been very worried about the impact of having to meet the loan repayments. He 
attended the court hearing, not to contest the debt but to agree a manageable repayment 
plan, concerned he couldnt afford the terms TFS was demanding.Ive listened to a call between Mr L and TFS when he sought an arrangement to prevent 
further court action being taken. He was clearly distressed by the prospect of the charging 
order and the potential consequence of losing his property. And that in order to prevent the 
court action he would have to concede to paying the £300-£400 a month TFS were 
demanding  something he would, in all likelihood, be unable to manage. I think such 
circumstances would have had a significant impact on any reasonable persons well-being. 
Indeed, Mr L tells TFS representative he was beside himself after hearing his explanation 
of what could happen after the lender had obtained the charging order.
Mr L had hoped he wouldnt need to involve his wife with the detail of his sons loan  she 
wasnt his sons mother and he wanted to keep the financial side of his relationships 
separate. However, as TFS escalated proceedings against him and potentially jeopardised 
the security of the home he shared with her, Mr L needed to inform his wife of the full details. 
And after TFS obtained a charging order against their home, Mr L felt the only recourse 
available to him and to protect their home was to accept a loan from his in-laws to repay the 
TFS debt. At a time in his life when Mr L was approaching his retirement, Mr L said this 
created a significant stress and the obligation to repay his in-laws was a contributing factor 
to his marriage breakdown and the deterioration in his general health and wellbeing. 
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset. When somethings gone wrong, recognition of 
the emotional and practical impact makes a real difference. Were all inconvenienced at 
times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other people, businesses and 
organisations. For me to award compensation, I need to decide that the impact of TFS 
actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its clear to me this was the 
case. 
If TFS had not lent to Mr Ls son and accepted Mr L to stand as guarantor, Mr L would not 
have had a judgement debt or a charging order against him and his property  nor the 
damage to his reputation this caused. He would not have received demands for payments 
nor suffered the anxiety he has sustained now for some time whilst attempting to find the 
funds being demanded of him. He would not have endured the embarrassment of reaching 
out to his wider family to raise the funds he needed to repay TFS. Taking these and all other 
matters into consideration in this case, I think a substantial award for trouble and upset is 
appropriate. I think a sum of £750 to reflect the trouble and upset caused to him when TFS 
acted unfairly and/or unreasonably towards him is appropriate.

So this is how I intend to direct TFS to put things right:
refund any loan payments Mr L made including the sum he paid to fully repay the debt. 
And to each of those sums, it must add 8% simple interest a year, from the date Mr L 
paid them to the date the refund is paid to him.
remove any remaining adverse information about this loan from Mr Ls credit file. 
pay Mr L a sum of £750 to reflect the trouble and upset caused to him when TFS acted 
unfairly and/or unreasonably towards him.
Responses to My Provisional Decision
Mr L confirmed receipt of my provisional decision, but he didnt have anything to add other 
than to ask that I forward his bank details to TFS.
TFS confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and didnt have further comment to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr Ls son has brought a separate complaint about 
this lending and it is not possible to ignore the outcome of that complaint as it directly 
impacts the considerations required for Mr Ls own complaint. 
TFS responded to my provisional decision on Mr Ls sons complaint and I carefully 
considered what it said. Ive since issued my final decision looking into Mr Ls sons 
complaint about whether TFS lent to him responsibly. I came to same conclusion as the one 
I reached in my provisional decision. I upheld Mr Ls sons complaint because TFS should 
have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending on our website. Having taken this into account along with everything else I need to 
consider, and as both Mr L and TFS have confirmed receiving my provisional decision but 
havent provided anything further for me to think about, my decision remains unchanged and 
Im upholding this complaint.
I still think as TFS should not have agreed to lend to Mr Ls son, so TFS ought reasonably to 
have concluded that it was inappropriate to ask Mr L to guarantee his sons loan. So, Mr L 
would not have had a judgement debt or a charging order against him and his property  nor 
the damage to his reputation this caused. He would not have received demands for 
payments nor suffered the anxiety he has sustained now for some time whilst attempting to 
find the funds being demanded of him. He would not have endured the embarrassment of 
reaching out to his wider family to raise the funds he needed to repay TFS. Taking these and 
all other matters into consideration in this case, I still think a sum of £750 to reflect the 
trouble and upset caused to him when TFS acted unfairly and unreasonably towards him is 
appropriate. 
 
Putting things right
I'm satisfied that TFS acted unfairly when it accepted Mr L as a guarantor on this loan. When 
I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  as far as 
its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr L in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been unfairly and unreasonably accepted as a guarantor on this loan. 
However, this isnt straightforward in this case because TFS secured a judgment debt (CCJ) 
against Mr L in November 2015  over five and a half years ago. Mr L then borrowed £7,300 
from his in-laws to repay the debt and end any obligations on him under the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement. I expect the record of the judgment to stop appearing on Mr Ls credit 
file after its sixth anniversary. I think thats likely to happen sooner than the time it would take 
TFS to get the judgment set aside, if possible. So, I wont direct TFS to take such action. But 
I think TFS should arrange for any remaining adverse information recorded about this loan to 
be removed from Mr Ls credit file.  
Again, as Mr L should never have been accepted as a guarantor on this loan, it is unfair and 
unreasonable for him to have to had made any loan payments. So, TFS should pay him 
back everything he paid towards the loan. Mr L will have lost the use of those funds I think 
that he should be compensated for this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where a consumer hasnt had the use
of funds because its actions resulted in something having gone wrong. I see no reason to 
depart from our usual approach here and TFS hasnt suggested otherwise. I think awarding 
8% per year simple interest, on any loan payments that were made, is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.
I also have the power to make an award to reflect any trouble or upset TFSs wrongdoing 
has caused Mr L. I explained in my provisional decision and the above why I was minded to 
make such an award and why I have concluded that £750 would adequately reflect the 
trouble and upset Mr L has been caused.
So this is how I think TFS should put things right:
refund any loan payments Mr L made including the sum he paid to fully repay the debt. 
And to each of those sums, it must add 8% simple interest a year, from the date Mr L 
paid them to the date the refund is paid to him.
remove any remaining adverse information about this loan from Mr Ls credit file. 
pay Mr L a sum of £750 to reflect the trouble and upset caused to him when TFS acted 
unfairly and unreasonably towards him.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to 
put things right for Mr L in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman