DRN-4189569
The complaint
Mr Cs representative has complained, on his behalf, that Cambrian Associates Limited 
(CAL) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension 
Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
Mr C had preserved benefits from 23 years service. At the date of leaving (31 March 2017), 
he had a preserved pension income of £15,624 pa to be revalued to scheme retirement age 
- 65. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £428,500.
A fact find was completed on 9 October 2017 recording the following details about Mr C and 
his family:
Mr C was married. He and his wife were 40 and in good health.
He was employed earning a basic annual gross salary of £40,000, topped up to 
around £55,000 with overtime and bonuses. Mrs C was employed with an annual 
salary of £35,000 basic plus bonuses.
Joint net monthly income was £5,750 and monthly expenditure was £2,300, providing 
a net disposable income of £3,450 per month.
They had two dependent children.
Their outstanding mortgage was £40,000, although it was anticipated this would be
repaid within four years with overpayments.
Mr and Mrs C had joint cash savings of £20,000 with no other liabilities.
Mr C was a member of his employers workplace pension, receiving total 
contributions of 16% of salary. 
Mrs C was a member of her companys defined contribution pension plan, valued at 
around £70,000  she also had a deferred defined benefit pension.
Both parties benefitted from death in service life cover, Mr C with four times salary, 
and Mrs C with three times salary.
A retirement planning and pension transfer questionnaire recorded the following details 
relating to Mr and Mrs Cs objectives:
The option for both Mr and Mrs C to retire at age 55 was important, with a target joint 
retirement income, in 2017 terms, of £30,000 pa.
Mrs C anticipated retirement income at age 65, using her two occupational schemes, 
of around £14,000 a year.
Mr C had concerns regarding the financial security of his ex-employer and didnt wish 
for his BSPS benefits to remain under their control.
He wanted his BSPS benefits under his control, his family to inherit the fund upon his
death and not go to Tata, and flexible income in retirement so his income 
drawdown could reduce when the state pension and Mrs Cs pensions became 
payable. He had no need for a cash lump sum at retirement.
A risk profiling exercise was undertaken which determined that Mr C had a balanced attitude 
to investment risk and a moderate capacity for loss.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) was produced on 19 October 2017, which was based on 
the BSPS benefits.
CAL said that the post 1997 benefits were all assumed to increase by RPI capped at 5% for 
the purposes of the TVAS, which produced an overestimate of the growth needed to
match the BSPS benefits. This was because the revaluation rates under the BSPS 2 would 
be lower.
The critical yield to match the BSPS benefits was 6.07% pa for a full pension at age 65,
and a projected annual income of around £29,000. This would require a fund value of around 
£1.3m.
At age 55, the critical yield was 9.5% pa with an annual income of around £20,000. 
The critical yield to match benefits from the PPF at age 65 was calculated at 4.08% pa, with 
an annual pension income of around £23,000.
A Prudential illustration was also produced on 19 October 2017 based on an investment
return at the mid-growth rate. The estimated fund value at age 65, after allowing for
all charges and inflation, was around £536,000.A suitability report was issued on 24 October 2017 confirming a recommendation to
transfer the BSPS benefits to a PPP with Prudential and invest 100% in the Prufund
Growth Fund to match Mr Cs attitude to risk. Mr Cs main needs and priorities were
summarised as being:
To be able to achieve an initial income of £30,000 per annum in retirement which will be an
accumulation of tax free cash and income to utilise your personal allowance to minimise 
income tax on your retirement income at age 55 then reduce this when yours and [Mrs Cs] 
State Pensions commence and [Mrs Cs] Occupational Pension and [defined benefit 
pension] commence at age 65 and be able to take ad-doc withdrawals as and when 
required.
oAs you have accumulated a large fund over many years of your working life, you wish 
to avoid the possibility of the funds disappearance if both you and [Mrs C] were to 
die young.
oTo leave your pension fund to [Mrs C] and/or your two children to inherit on your 
death that is free from inheritance tax under current legislation.
oTo review the suitability of your Defined Benefit Scheme with BSPS, to see if it is in 
line with your objectives.
Mr C accepted the recommendation, signing the application form on 1 November 2017.
In October 2022, Mr C complained through his representative to CAL, expressing concern 
about the suitability of the advice. CAL investigated but found the advice to have been 
suitable. Mr C subsequently referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests. 
CAL said that Mr Cs main objective was to retire at 65, but this wasnt entirely 
accurate  he said that he wanted the option to be able to do so  and early 
retirement was in any case available to him from his safeguarded BSPS benefits. Mr 
C couldnt in any case retire until 57, rather than 55 as set out in the suitability report, 
and this would be dependent upon overall affordability.
Although the scheme pension payable with early retirement would be reduced, this 
simply reflected the longer period of payment, and Mr C should have been 
appropriately informed that this wasnt a penalty  and that if he retained his 
scheme benefits he wouldnt need to worry about an alternative pension fund 
depleting.
It was difficult to know, given that Mr C was 40, what his plans might be in 17 years 
time, or whether early retirement would be affordable. Mr C didnt need to make an 
irreversible decision to transfer at that age.
Although the transfer was recommended on the basis of Mr C being able to flexibly 
access his BSPS benefits early, Mr and Mrs C would likely have accrued additional savings by that time through their disposable income. Mr C could have accessed 
these, along with the 17 years defined contributions which he would have accrued by 
that point, on top of his BSPS pension if necessary. He would then have broadly 
satisfied his income needs through guaranteed and non-guaranteed benefits, with 
Mrs Cs pensions then beginning, along with the state pensions.
The recommendation placed a heavy emphasis on Mr Cs desire to leave a lump 
sum legacy from his pension benefits. But Mr C could have left a legacy in other 
ways  the death in service benefits pre-retirement and the spouses benefits both 
pre and post retirement. There was also the accrued savings and the defined 
contributions which Mrs C could rely upon in the event of Mr Cs death. But pension 
benefits were in any case designed to provide an income to the individual.
The objective to have control over his pension funds had been overstated  Mr C had 
no investment experience, nor the knowledge to appropriately manage his pension 
funds. If hed been made aware of the option of combining the guaranteed and non-
guaranteed benefits which he would have accrued by retirement with which any 
flexibility requirements could have been met, Mr C would have looked at things 
differently.
In the event that the benefits entered the PPF, Mr C would still have benefited from 
guaranteed protections, and this should have been appropriately communicated to 
him.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rates to ages 57 and 65 were 4.3% and 4.6% respectively and, taking 
into account Mr Cs attitude to risk, along with the regulators low, mid and high rate 
growth projections (2%/5%/8%), and the growth rate of 6.2% pa used in the cashflow 
modelling, it was unlikely that the scheme benefits could be bettered through 
transferring.
This was further illustrated by the comparison between the fund which would be 
required at age 65 to replace the scheme benefits (£1.3m) and the PPPs projected 
fund value at the same age of £536,000. This confirmed that the CETV shouldnt 
have been regarded as representing value for money.
The investigator recommended that CAL undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with regulators policy statement PS22/13, and as set out in the regulators handbook in 
DISP App 4  and on the basis that Mr C would have opted to join the BSPS 2. Mr C had no 
plans to retire at present (and indeed couldnt do so for many years) and so the investigator 
said that the calculation should be based upon an assumed retirement age of 65, as per the 
regulators usual assumptions in its guidance. 
If the redress was paid directly to Mr C, CAL could make a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.He also said that CAL should pay Mr C £300 in respect of the trouble and upset that the 
matter would have caused him.
The investigator then contacted both parties to slightly amend the redress wording, reflecting 
the introduction of the regulators BSPS redress calculator.
Neither party submitted any further comments in response to the investigators assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CAL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a defined 
benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
CAL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Cs best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which CAL was required to carry out by the regulator said that the 
critical yield - how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 6.07% to 
match the benefits hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. To match 
them at 55, the critical yield was 9.5%. And so for age 57, it was likely somewhere in 
between.
Given Mr Cs recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of between 4.3% 
and 4.6% between ages 57 and 65, and the regulators middle projection rate for growth (5% pa), I think Mr C was more likely than not to receive pension benefits, 
from either age 57 or 65, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under 
the BSPS 2 by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Early retirement was clearly appealing to Mr C, as it might reasonably be appealing 
to a great many people, but as noted by the investigator, Mr C was looking at this as 
an option, rather than a requirement. And given Mr Cs age at the time, being some 
17 years from the point at which he could retire, I think this is entirely reasonable. 
And as also set out by the investigator, its likely that Mr and Mrs C would likely also 
have been able to meet their income needs in retirement through accessing their 
defined benefits and defined contributions accruals (flexibly if required in the case of 
the latter), along with the savings they would have accrued - and then further enjoyed 
the state pensions when they began.
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his family, the 
priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement. While the 
CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer would likely be different if Mr C was 
drawing upon it, especially to a significant degree in the early years after retirement. 
It would also be dependent on investment performance, and so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr C may have thought it would. Mrs C would also be 
denied the guaranteed, escalating 50% spouses pension which would otherwise 
have been provided by the scheme for the rest of her life, not to mention the five year 
guaranteed period of full payment after the pension had begun to be paid.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. There was no identified need for a 
lump sum in the event of Mr Cs death, given Mr and Mrs Cs likely situation in 
retirement, and the likely financial independence of their children by the time they 
came to retire. And if a legacy was important to them, this could have been achieved 
in other ways  they would have had an unencumbered property valued at £155,000 
(in 2017) and would also have had savings which could be passed to their estate in 
the event of their deaths. 
My view is that CAL shouldnt have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for 
alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his own security in 
retirement.
As with the investigator, I think Mr Cs desire for control over how his pension was 
invested was likely overstated. I cant see that he had an interest in managing, or the 
knowledge to be able to do so, his pension funds on his own. Given his balanced risk 
attitude and lack of other experience I dont think that this was likely a genuine 
objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his 
defined benefit scheme.
Mr C may have held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension and 
the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CALs role to objectively address those 
concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS 2 being 
established. But even if not, the PPF would still provide Mr C with guaranteed income 
and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr C was unlikely to improve on these 
benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might 
have thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that 
transferring was in his best interest.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Cs best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. CAL itself pointed out to Mr C in 
its suitability report that it would be very unwise for him to transfer his benefits  and I agree. 
But for the reasons set out above, I dont think the reasons it provided to then in any case 
transfer were sufficiently compelling. 
And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr C would have insisted on 
transferring, against advice to remain in the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr C received 
from CAL was unsuitable.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress calculator, I 
consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the BSPS-specific 
circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would more 
likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the 
BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.
Cambrian Associates Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Cambrian Associates Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr C hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. As early retirement was set out as 
a desirable option, rather than a firm objective, I dont think it can reasonably be concluded 
that its more likely than not that Mr C will access his ex-BSPS benefits before the normal 
scheme retirement age, especially with the flexibility that the defined contributions accrual 
and Mrs Cs pension provision might afford. And so the calculation should be run to the 
schemes normal retirement age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Cambrian Associates Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Cambrian Associates Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Cambrian Associates Limited to pay Mr C the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Cambrian Associates Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Cambrian Associates Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr C could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
I also agree with the investigator that Cambrian Associates Limited should pay Mr C £300. I 
think its likely that hell have experienced not inconsiderable levels of concern over this 
matter and he has faced uncertainty over his retirement plans.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cambrian Associates Limited to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman