DRN-3540016
The complaint
Mr F has complained that as a result of inaction by St Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc (SJP) he has incurred an unnecessary tax liability. 
What happened
Mr Fs parents were the lives assured of an investment bond they purchased in 2005. Mr Fs 
father died in 2010 and in 2014 the ownership of the bond was passed to Mr F and his 
brother via Deeds of Assignment. Mr Fs brother passed his portion of the investment bond 
to his wife and encashed his share. 
When Mr Fs mother died in 2021 the investment bond was disinvested as she was the last 
of the lives assured. As a result of that Mr F has incurred a tax liability which Mr F says SJP 
should have advised him of. 
Mr F complained to SJP who didnt uphold his complaint. It said;
It provided the background to the investment bond and Mr F being involved in the 
process in 2014 when the family was advised of the most tax efficient way to access 
capital from the bond. 
After the previous adviser left SJP the new adviser had some phone meetings with 
Mr F but couldnt conduct a full review despite the advisers requests.
Because Mr F hadnt had a full financial review prior to his mothers death in 2021 the 
risk of the Investment Bond ceasing on his mothers death hadnt been discussed 
with him and possible solution suggested. 
The previous adviser at SJP could have discussed this with Mr F. He remained the 
plan owner with his mother as life assured. Mr F had received a payment of 
£68,981.49 in September 2021. 
It was only possible to provide the correct level of advice if Mr F had fully engaged 
with SJP. Mr F had declined to meet and discuss any ongoing needs. Without SJP 
being fully aware of Mr Fs circumstances it couldnt advise adequately. It wouldnt 
have been right for recommendations to have been made without being in 
possession of all the relevant information. 
Mr F did agree and wrote back to SJP. SJP reiterated its position and remaining unhappy 
with the outcome, Mr F brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator who considered Mr Fs complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
She had seen the email sent to Mr F in 2012  in his role as executor of his late 
fathers estate  which showed the tax implications if the policy was cashed in for 
both a higher and basic rate taxpayer. Further advice had been given in 2014 about 
the advantages of assigning the policy to a basic rate taxpayer. She couldnt agree 
that Mr F wasnt aware that if he wasnt a basic tax player then a tax liability would be 
incurred.
SJP had contacted Mr F by phone and follow up letters regarding a confidential 
financial review but Mr F never agreed to these. A review could have established    
Mr Fs financial circumstances. SJP wasnt aware of Mr Fs tax status. 
It wasnt known what of SJPs services Mr F subscribed to. But even if that was a full 
advisory service, SJP couldnt have properly assessed his financial circumstances 
without a full review. Overall, she didnt consider that SJP had made an error 
regarding any tax liability for the investment bond. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a decision. Mr F provided a further submission 
for my consideration. In summary he said;
SJP failed to advise him of the risk of the bonds dependence on his mothers 
position as the life assured despite her advancing years.
That the death of his mother would trigger encashment of the bond and the tax 
implications for him. If he had known, he would have acted. It should have been 
explained to him.
He relied on SJP. He had no understanding of the bond or prior knowledge.
SJP had been able to provide good advice in the case of his brother and it should 
have reminded or reiterated the tax implications for him because of his mothers 
death. 
He provided all information that was requested, and, in any event, no special 
knowledge of his affairs was necessary to identify the risk and consequences. 
Mr F updated us about his tax liability further to his complaint being brought to this service. 
He has said that for the 2021/22 tax year he received confirmation from HMRC that his tax 
liability was £10,005. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
In Mr Fs complaint letter to SJP he said that SJP had failed to properly manage his 
investment and give him appropriate advice. The two key issues he referred to were the 
bonds vulnerability to Mr Fs mother being the life assured and the potential tax liability as a 
result of an involuntary encashment of the bond upon his mothers death if he was a higher 
rate tax payer.
Mr F has said that if he had been aware of the involuntary encashment and the subsequent 
tax liability to him as a higher rate tax payer, then he would have changed the status of the 
bond or assigned it to someone else  I assume a basic rate tax payer. SJP has told us it 
wouldnt have been possible to add any other lives assured, so by simply assigning it would 
have resulted in it being surrendered on the death of Mr Fs mother in any event. 
However, I dont think its unreasonable to assume that a life assurance bond such as this 
one comes to an end upon the death of the life assured. The very reason for having the 
product has come to an end. But I have gone on to consider what SJPs obligations were to Mr F. Mr F became a client 
after his fathers bond was split and Mr F retained his share. As the bond itself was a 
contract started prior to the Retail Distribution Review, which was launched by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in 2006, there was no on-going adviser charge. Because of that there was 
no responsibility on SJP to offer reviews. But I see that Mr F was provided with those review 
offers but turned them down. 
I understand that when the bond was assigned to Mr F in 2014, he was invited to review 
meetings, but he declined. Ive seen a copy of SJPs Financial Review document for Mr F 
and under the Client meeting notes section of the document reference is made of the 
contact had with Mr F. There is record of an initial call in December 2018 with SJPs new 
representative during which its confirmed that Mr F helped with his mothers finances and 
that Mr F had his own independent financial adviser. This suggests to me that the focus of 
the relationship Mr F had with SJP centred around his mothers investment. Further calls 
were had in July of the following three years. 
The advisers notes of the call made in 2019 say I have expressed the need to meet and Im 
happy to see them both at home. In 2020 he said, I have expressed a face to face review 
would be preferable next time. In 2021 Mr Fs mother had recently died and the review was 
postponed. I think its clear from those notes that SJP did offer to meet with Mr F albeit in the 
knowledge that Mr F had his own financial adviser in any event and there would have been 
the potential for it to give advice if it was needed,. 
Mr F has said that a face to face meeting wasnt needed in order for SJP to obtain sufficient 
information about him order for it to advise of the impact on the investment bond upon the 
death of his mother. And I agree that could have been the case. But SJP wasnt to know that 
Mr F could require such advice unless it was made aware of that need. The information in 
the fact find that SJP held for Mr F is limited to his name and address and the ownership of 
the investment bond. His tax rate isnt recorded and SJP wasnt in the position to know      
Mr Fs other financial circumstances or how he would be affected unless he engaged with it. 
While SJP may not have had a responsibility to offer reviews, its clear that advice was given 
over the years to family members. And that included the tax advice given to Mr Fs brother in 
2014 regarding the reassignment of his share of the bond  for tax purposes and 
encashment. And I understand the Mr F was party to those discussions so was aware some 
tax issues did arise with the bond upon encashment. And its clear that Mr F was aware that 
his mother was the sole life assured on the bond and as I have said above, I dont think its 
an unreasonable assumption to make that a life assurance bond contract would come to an 
end upon the death of the life assured. 
I think it more likely that if Mr F had engaged with SJP or accepted its offers of meeting, then 
Mr Fs financial circumstances would have been understood and any tax implications of the 
bond could have been revisited or explored. And particularly as Mr F has explained that as 
he wasnt the original purchaser of the bond nor is he a financial expert with an 
understanding of the characteristics of the bond, then in his role as executor and beneficiary 
of the estate I dont think it would have been unreasonable for him to seek advice on this. 
Whether that be from his own financial adviser or SJP. 
Ive considered in more detail whether Mr F was aware of the implications of his mother 
being the only life assured. SJP has told us that he was present at a meeting it had with his 
mother where it was discussed about consolidating three of her own bonds after the death of 
Mr Fs father in August 2010. The consolidation didnt go ahead but I note that on page eight 
of the suitability report provided states under the heading of Ownership;You [Mr Fs mother] will own the investment. The lives assured on your investment 
will be [Mr F and one other] so in the event of your death the Bond will continue.
SJP has also provided us with the key features document which was given at the time and I 
see there is a section entitled What happens if the life assured dies and provides that 
information. So even though that advice was directed at Mr Fs mother and related to the 
bonds she held, I think its clear that the implications of being a life assured of an investment 
bond was discussed and Mr F was party to those discussions.
I also note that in correspondence from September 2012 about the distribution of Mr Fs late 
fathers estate details of the value etc of the investment bond was given as well as details 
about the total value for tax purposes and the tax position if the trustees were to dispose of it 
or if both a basic rate and higher rate tax payer were to dispose of it. That is followed by the 
comment; 
When one or more people encash a policy the top slice is added, proportion, to their 
taxable income to see if they then fall into the Higher or Additional rate tax bracket. If 
two or more beneficiaries wish to continue the investment, I would look at their 
respective tax positions to see if it would be advantageous to split the investment into 
two new plans or continue the existing plan as a joint investment.
And on 6 March 2014 SJPs representative responded to a query from Mr F about the 
assignment of the policy to the beneficiaries of the estate and once that had been done the 
executors job is complete and we can take instructions from the owners on their policies 
after reviewing the tax position again. 
While these dont explicitly discuss what would happen to the policy in the event of Mr Fs 
mothers death, I think it was made clear that the investment bond does have special 
characteristics when it came to the tax position. And if Mr F had engaged with SJP further, 
then the above make clear his own tax position would have been considered and advice 
could have been given on that basis with the potential of further advice upon the involuntary 
encashment of the bond.
And the adviser in 2014 has said that upon the death of Mr Fs father the effect of just having 
Mr Fs mother as the remaining life assured was made clear to Mr F in their last meeting in 
2014. But it might be that Mr F doesnt recall this as I appreciate this was nearly ten years 
ago.  
Mr F has said there was plenty of opportunity for SJP to provide him with the advice he 
would have needed to avoid the tax liability he has incurred. But taking all of the above into 
account, I think the tax liability Mr F has told us he has incurred was his own responsibility. 
Mr F had his own financial adviser and SJP simply wasnt in the position to give him advice 
without knowing more about his circumstances. And I dont think it would have been right for 
SJP to give advice without it being more aware of Mr Fs financial position. 
Mr Fs relationship with SJP seems to have mainly been focused on his mothers assets and 
his brothers share of the bond, and SJP wasnt obliged to provide Mr F with ongoing advice 
in any event. And Mr F chose not to engage with SJP despite its invitations to do so. But I 
think the dealings he had with SJP about his late mothers investment and his brothers 
share of the bond should have highlighted the importance to him of seeking the necessary 
investment advice which would have included his own tax position. 
Mr F has said that as he wasnt the original purchaser of the bond and wasnt a financial 
expert then his knowledge about the bond couldnt be assumed. I accept the point Mr F is 
making here but by him being aware of his limited financial knowledge, I think it should have prompted him to engage with SJP when it offered or seek alternative advice from his own 
financial adviser. 
Taking all of the above into account, overall, I dont find that SJP is responsible for the tax 
liability Mr F has incurred. 
Undoubtedly Mr F will be disappointed with the outcome to his complaint. Its clear he feels 
very strong about it and I thank him for the efforts he has made in bringing the complaint. I 
hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached this decision outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman