DRN-4032656
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him for transactions he says he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Mr A held a credit card with Barclays. Between February and May 2021, Mr A says that a 
number of transactions were carried out on his card without his knowledge or consent. 
Barclays looked into Mr As claim but didnt find any evidence of fraud. It therefore held Mr A 
liable for the transactions.
Mr A remained unhappy with Barclays holding him liable for the disputed transactions, so he 
asked our service to carry out an independent review. 
Mr A says that prior to credit card application, a neighbour offered to obtain a bounce back 
loan for him through a connection they had in the bank for a 20% fee if the loan was 
obtained successfully. Mr A agreed to this and provided all the relevant personal information 
and identity documents.
After the loan was paid, Mr As neighbour then put him in touch with a relation of theirs to 
help him set up a business. Again, Mr A provided all the relevant personal information and 
identity documents for this to be set up.
Mr A says that after this took place, he began to receive credit cards, debit cards and 
documentation through the post in relation to numerous financial products. He says that 
once he received these, he was threatened by the third-party to hand over the cards and 
their associated PINs, along with his existing cards: of which included the card and PIN for 
the account subject to this dispute. It was following this that the disputed transactions were 
made.
An Investigator considered the evidence and testimony provided by both parties but 
concluded that Barclays were fair in holding Mr A liable for the transactions in dispute. They 
found that the payments were authenticated, and that Mr A likely consented to the payments 
being made.
Mr A remained unhappy with the Investigators assessment, so the matter has now been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to comment on the fact that Mr As character is somewhat 
challenged by the fact that hes obtained credit in questionable circumstances. 
While I suspect there is an element of naivety on Mr As part, I also suspect that he wasnt 
entirely honest in allowing the application for the bounce back loan that led to his personal 
information being provided to a third-party. So, Ive kept that in mind when thinking about 
Mr As version of events.
Moving onto the transactions subject to this complaint, there is no dispute here that the 
payments were authenticated. However, for thoroughness, Ive checked the technical reports 
provided by Barclays and these clearly show the payments were authenticated either 
through chip and PINwith the card physically presentand via online purchases providing 
the correct authentication details. What is in dispute here is if Mr A consented to the 
payments being made.
Mr A has told our service that he was forced to hand over his bank and credit cards to the 
third-party he believed was helping him set up a business through threats. However, Ive 
reviewed the evidence provided by Mr A and Im not persuaded that this supports his 
testimony.
Mr A has sent our service a number of chats that he had with his neighbour and his 
neighbours relatives. In these chats, Mr A appears to receive a number of debit and credit 
cards relating to other financial products and forwards pictures of them on. I have seen no 
evidence of threats or coercion to do this. 
To the contrary, Mr A appears to send the information informing the third-party of their arrival 
without question of why he was receiving them or what they were for. The conversation 
between Mr A and the third-party is civil and Mr A even reminds the third party when 
repayment is due on some of the accounts and sends correspondence from Barclays in April 
and May 2021 setting out that he is nearing his credit limit and when payment is due. The 
third-party also sends photographs back to Mr A showing that the balances have been paid.
Conversation after this point seems to suggest that Mr A was requesting assistance from the 
same party in obtaining a mortgage in principle, with Mr A sending details of properties hes 
interested in purchasing.
These conversations dont strike me as threatening or coercive in nature. They persuade me 
that its likely Mr A was providing his bank and credit cards willingly to the third-party for their 
use. And the third-party was making repayments on those accounts on behalf of Mr A.
Having looked at Mr As contact notes from Barclays, I cant see he made any attempt to 
contact it and let it know transactions were being carried out without his consent or to inform 
it he had been forced to hand over his card and security information. Nor are there any 
Police reports in this period.
As I find it more likely than not that Mr A has willingly handed over control of his accounts to 
a third-party and authorised their use, I cant say Barclays has been unfair to hold Mr A liable 
for the payments in dispute, whether he carried them out or not. 
My final decision
For all the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman