DRN-3277148
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs N is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around October 2015, Mrs N was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs N decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ns behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs N to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system was self-funding through the feed-in tariff which would generate an 
income and significant savings on their electricity bills. 
Shawbrook issued a final response s and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs N or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However, it offered £200 compensation in recognition of the time taken for it to respond.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs N and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The quotation was not the focal point of the sales meeting. 
Mrs N was satisfied by what she had been told about the system being self-funding 
through the income and savings generated and did not think it necessary to check 
the quotation when she received it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs N could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs N and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ns recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mrs N agreed to enter into the contract for the system. 
I have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mrs N agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The cost of the system was shown on the quotation as £7,935.00. The loan was for this 
amount and was repayable over 180 monthly repayments of £86.19, with the first repayment 
due three months after the date of the advance. The total amount payable was £15,514.20 if 
the loan ran to its full term. 
Mrs N made a lump sum repayment of £7,000 in June 2016 and, following further monthly 
repayments, the loan was fully paid off in Jun 2017. The total Mrs N paid was £8,502.26
FIT paymentsMrs N have alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments and savings. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P and considered whether this supports what Mrs N has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs N could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs N could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £386.23.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs N could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £239.99  and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £699.99. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The following graph showed the monthly FIT payments and savings in the first year against 
the monthly payments. This shows that the income and savings would only exceed the loan 
repayments in three months of the year.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs N entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £84.79 (slightly less than shown on the loan 
agreement due to the initial repayment being deferred for three months). For each year of 
the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages 
that figure over 12 months and subtracts the illustrative monthly loan repayment of £84.79, 
to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly 
loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs N could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs N that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs N was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 16 the overall benefits that 
Mrs N could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. And, given what she actually paid in total after settling the loan early, the 
benefits of the system are projected to exceed what she paid by the end of year 10.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs N that the system would pay for itself by 
the end of year 16, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs N. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,097 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Ns FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,370 kWh. This is more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2015 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs N 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs N entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs N to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman