DRN-1494341
 
The complaint
Miss B says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to her.                  
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan MoneyBoat provided to Miss B on 23 July 2018. 
It was for £600 and repayable over 6 months. She repaid it on 17 January 2019.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
MoneyBoat disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator concluded MoneyBoat shouldnt have given the loan to Miss B because its 
checks on Miss Bs creditworthiness showed she had other outstanding short term loans at 
the time she applied. She said this suggested Miss B was having problems managing her 
money and MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was likely Miss B would struggle to 
sustainably repay the loan. 
MoneyBoat disagreed saying, in summary, the checks undertaken were proportionate 
especially given the infancy of the lending relationship. It says whilst we might argue that it 
should have considered all the information it gathered, at this early stage most decisions are 
automated. In its market - where quick and efficient service is needed - it would be 
impractical to review every line of a credit file for every loan. 
As I set out earlier in this decision, in the early stages of a lending relationship we do think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. However, in line with the 
relevant regulations, we expect a lender to have proper regard for any information it gathers 
from the checks it decides to do. 
MoneyBoat says it asked Miss B for information about her income and expenditure when 
she applied for the loan. It also carried out a credit check. It says it then adjusted her 
disposable income based on what this showed and/or inputs from third party data sources. 
And overall these checks showed the loan was affordable for Miss B.
I agree that the checks it carried out seem to have been proportionate. But Im not 
persuaded that it had proper regard for the information it gathered and then made a 
responsible lending decision. The credit check showed that Miss B had at least three other 
short term loans outstanding and that she was spending more than she had declared to 
MoneyBoat on repaying existing credit. She had opened 13 new accounts in the last 6 
months and had 25 searches on her credit file in the last 3 months. 
So from the information MoneyBoat gathered I think it ought to have realised that Miss B 
was finding it difficult to manage her money, and there was a real risk she would most likely 
not be able to repay her loan sustainably. So I think it was wrong to have given Miss B the 
loan.     
Putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on her loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Bs credit file;
 
HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) should pay Miss B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman