DRN-4062279
The complaint
Mr A complains about Coversure Insurance Services (Leyton) Limited (Coversure) for 
renewing his insurance cover without his consent. He wants a refund of premiums paid and 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr A runs a business which owns around 14 properties.
In 2021/21 he obtained his insurance through the broker, Coversure. His policy ran from July 
2021 and was due to expire on 9 July 2022. There was no arrangement for automatic 
renewal. 
In mid-June 2022, Coversure spoke to Mr A about his upcoming renewal. It was agreed that 
Mr A would provide new information to Coversure and then Coversure would undertake a 
market exercise to look for appropriate cover for him. 
Mr A did not return any such information and so in late June 2022, Coversure sent him a 
renewal quote based on the information it already held. Mr A says he did not receive that 
renewal information. 
In early July 2022 Coversure made attempts to speak to Mr A, and it managed to do so on 8 
July, late in the day. 
Coversure advised Mr A that the insurance for his 14 properties was due to lapse that night. 
Mr A said that he wanted to make changes to the information before renewing and he was 
unhappy with the renewal quote received, but Coversure advised him that it was now too 
late to change this, and he would either need to renew based on the existing information and 
make changes later or come off cover and apply for a new quote. 
Mr A agreed to continue cover and said he would go into Coversures office later that week 
to provide information. 
He did not attend and Coversure contacted him again by phone on 13 July 2022. 
Mr A made some changes to the information and cover needed and Coversure processed 
this. This increased the overall cost of the cover by around £600. 
Coversure then contacted Mr A to make payment for the policy cover. In September 2022 he 
indicated that he needed to set up a direct debit. He had further discussions with Coversure 
and a direct debit was set up, requiring an initial payment from Mr A. 
Mr A did not make the payments as planned and after 3 months of non-payment, Coversure 
cancelled his policy after giving him notice. 
Coversure then advised Mr A that he owed around £1400 for the 3-month period of cover he 
had benefitted from. 
Mr A emailed Coversure asking that they reinstate his policy. He paid £500 towards his debt. 
Coversure declined to reinstate cover but offered to requote him if he wished. It also waived 
its cancellation charges from the debt owing. 
Mr A then complained to Coversure. He said that he had not consented to the cover being in 
place and he did not think he ought to pay for it. 
Coversure responded to him in December 2022. It set out a timeline of its interactions with 
him and declined his complaint. 
Mr A was not happy and contacted us. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They did not think that Coversure needed to do anything else. 
Mr A did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He indicated that he 
did not think he had been given enough opportunity to comment on the information before 
the investigator reached a view. He said that he had wanted to make changes before 
renewing and that he thinks that Coversure acted unprofessionally. He feels that he was 
forced into buying the policy. 
He has now settled the debt to Coversure but wants this to be refunded to him.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the information available on file, including the call information. I have also 
taken into account that Mr A is experienced in managing property and has a level of 
expertise in his role as director of a company. 
I agree with my colleagues conclusion and do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Based on the available evidence, I am satisfied that Coversure made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr A before his insurance expired and that it provided him with information, and 
opportunities to provide information, if he wished to look for other cover. 
It will be no surprise to Mr A that insurance policies run for fixed periods (in this case a year) 
and that the dates of a policy term are not negotiable once in that term. If not renewed by the 
end date, then his buildings insurance would lapse and his properties would be uninsured. 
He has indicated that he wished to make changes to the cover or policy information, but I 
cannot see that he provided that to Coversure before the expiry of his policy. In those 
circumstances Coversure had no option but to provide renewal information based on the 
information it already held. 
When Mr A and Coversure spoke on 8 July 2022 there was no time to obtain a new quote 
before the expiry of his current period of insurance. I do not consider that this was 
Coversures fault as notices and communications clearly setting out the expiry date had 
been sent out.
In the circumstances of the call, Mr A may have felt pressure to agree to the renewal, but I 
do not consider that Coversure forced him to renew. I also have not seen evidence of a lack of professionalism from Coversure. 
Mr A was able to make changes after the renewal and agreed to various payment 
arrangements, but then did not meet them. In those circumstances Coversure was entitled to 
cancel the cover, on notice. Mr A asked that it be reinstated, so I am confident that he 
wanted his properties to be adequately insured at all times. 
Overall, I do not think Coversure did anything wrong in these circumstances, and I do not 
uphold Mr As complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr A but I hope my 
reasons are clear. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not ask Coversure 
Insurance Services (Leyton) Limited to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman