DRN-4039464
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund the 
money it lost as a result of a third-party scam.
Mr V, director of S, is bringing the complaint on behalf of S. It was he who fell victim to the 
scam, so I have referred to him throughout this decision.
What happened
In summary, Mr V was the victim of an HMRC impersonation scam. He was tricked into 
sending 24 payments of £999 and one of £991 from Ss Starling account to the scammers 
accounts, which he believed was for tax he owed.
Starling declined to refund Mr V under the CRM code as it didnt believe he had a 
reasonable basis for believing the scammers were genuine.
Mr V disagreed as he felt the payments were out of character and shouldve been picked up 
for questioning. He felt that, had this been done, it couldve prevented Ss losses. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He felt Mr V did not have a reasonable basis 
for belief, but he did think Starling ought to have intervened on the seventh payment as he 
felt the activity was concerning by this point. He therefore recommended Starling refund 50% 
of the transactions from the seventh payment onwards. 
Mr V did not agree.  He said he was 26 years old at the time, nave and inexperienced in 
running a business and in related matters, such as tax. He also thinks Starling ought to have 
intervened at the outset. He felt the point at which the investigator has suggested Starling 
should have intervened  is arbitrary and has no specific point of reference in any banking 
regulation.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr V has presented to 
us, but I have read all of his submissions. Im not responding to every single point made but 
instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of this 
complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr V has been a victim of fraud and I am deeply sorry for that, but it 
doesnt automatically mean Starling is liable for some or all of his losses. In fact, the relevant 
regulations (and the terms of Ss account) make him responsible for payments hes made 
himself in the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr V authorised the payments. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Mr V in line with the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has signed up to and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect Mr V from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr V was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
paying tax he owed and this wasnt the case. But this isnt enough, in itself, for Mr V to 
receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code.
The CRM Code
Starling has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated that 
the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet. And it says that when 
assessing whether the firm has met those standards, consideration must be given to 
whether compliance with those standards would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.
I am also mindful that when Mr V made these payments, Starling should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Did Starling meet its obligations under the CRM Code? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should take reasonable steps to provide their customers with effective warnings. It also says 
that effective warnings should, where possible, be tailored to the APP scam risk indicators 
and any specific APP scam types identified through the user interface with which the 
customer is initiating the payment instructions.The individual transfers were relatively small, (although I appreciate overall its a lot of 
money to Mr V) and I dont think Starling ought reasonably to have identified a risk on the 
individual payments through the user interface.
Did Mr V have a reasonable basis for belief? 
I need to consider not just whether Mr V believed he was sending money to pay tax but 
whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive thought about the steps Mr V took to 
reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transactions and whether it was reasonable for 
him to proceed with the payments. 
Overall, I dont think Mr V had a reasonable basis for believing these were genuine payment 
requests from a genuine person. I say this because:
Mr V received a telephone call out of the blue from someone purporting to be from HMRC. 
Mr V initially told Starling that the caller advised there was a warrant out for his arrest as he 
had not paid taxes for the 2016/2017 tax year (although he told out investigator a more 
recent tax year). But Mr V was employed at this time and would have paid tax through his 
employer. The total bill was disproportionate with the salary he earned at the time. So I think 
this ought to have been a sign that things were not right.
I appreciate the second telephone number calling Mr V appears to have been a spoof for his 
local police station, but from what Mr V told Starling - both the initial number that called him 
and the number that he was contacted by on a social media messaging forum did not belong 
to HMRC or the police station. I dont think a social media messaging forum would generally 
be used for requesting tax payments and I think warranted further scrutiny.
Mr V was not provided with any kind of documentation for the charges' or for the payments 
which were being requested. Mr V made 25 payments in total to a variety of different 
accounts which were in different people's names. It is very unlikely that an official 
governmental institution or firm of solicitors would request for funds to be paid to individual 
accounts instead of and business official account. I appreciate Mr V was given an 
explanation, but I dont think the explanation he received was plausible. I consider that Mr V 
ought to have had greater concerns and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree 
of scrutiny on his part. 
So, Im not persuaded Mr V had a reasonable basis for believing the payee was the 
person he was expecting to pay; that the payments were for genuine goods or services; or 
the person with whom Mr V transacted was legitimate.
Overall, I think there was enough going on (certainly by the time I think the bank ought to 
have intervened) that Mr V reasonably ought to have had concerns and taken further 
steps before he made the payments. And this would have ultimately prevented his own 
losses.
Should Starling have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr V?
As well as the CRM Code, a bank still has wider obligations and a duty to protect its 
customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I dont think the first six transactions would have caused Starling concern. The payments 
were relatively small. The account had only recently been opened so there was little history to compare. Businesses do from time to time need to make transactions. And the account 
balance wasnt cleared. Starling needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes 
in payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. But overall given the sums and the pattern involved, I think by the seventh 
payment, Starling should have intervened. 
There is no documented threshold for intervening on a payment, but it is for me to decide 
when assessing this particular case - what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. The amount of money Mr V sent, while clearly not insignificant to him, 
doesnt in and of itself suggest to me any heightened risk of fraud before the point Im 
upholding from. 
Im persuaded that had Starling intervened and asked Mr V about the reason for the 
payments, the scam would quickly have been uncovered. I appreciate much later on Mr V 
was told not disclose this detail to the bank, but I see no reason why Mr V wouldnt have told 
the truth at this earlier point - as he doesnt appear to have been given a cover story at the 
time and genuinely believed that he was making payments to HMRC.
Could Mr V have done more to mitigate his losses?
But I still also need to consider Mr Vs actions and how those contributed to his losses. 
Having done so, I do think it is fair and reasonable for him to share in the responsibility - 
broadly for the same reasons as I set out above when I said he didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing the person he was paying was genuine or that the payment requests were 
genuine.
Given that Starling could have prevented the loss (but Mr V should share in the responsibility 
for his loss) I think it refunding 50% of the transactions from the seventh transaction onwards 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
Did Starling do enough to recover Mr Vs funds?
Ive also thought about whether Starling took reasonable steps to recover Ss funds once it 
was made aware Mr V was the victim of a scam. The first scam payment was made at 15:27 
and last scam payment was made on 17:44 (the last scam payment not being refunded here 
was made at 16:15) and the scam was reported at 18:36. Starling contacted the receiving 
bank almost immediately on the same day but was told no funds remained. This is not 
unusual as scammers usually remove funds within minutes or hours.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for S Starling Bank Limited should:
Refund 50% of each transaction from the seventh transaction onwards
Add 8% simple interest to the above refund from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement. 1.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Starling Bank Limited to 
put things right for S as set out above.
1 If Starling is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send S a tax deduction certificate 
so it can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman