DRN-3401265
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) recorded missed payments and a default on 
her credit file. 
What happened
Miss C agreed a repayment plan with TSB for six months from March 2019 after which either 
the debt needed to be paid back in full or a new repayment plan would need to be agreed.
When the repayment plan completed in August 2019 there was still an outstanding balance. 
TSB attempted to contact Miss C to discuss the repayment of her debt and sent letters 
informing her of the arrears on her account and the consequences of not taking action. 
In March 2020 a third party representative tried to set up a new plan on Miss Cs behalf with 
TSB, but because the address details differed from what it held this wasnt possible. 
Following this TSB contacted Miss C on a number of occasions and was asked to update 
her address. She eventually did this in June 2020.
Miss C continued to make payments towards her debt but as a payment plan wasnt agreed 
she was effectively using an unarranged overdraft. TSB continued attempts to contact Miss 
C about this and failing a response in October 2020 it sent a letter informing her that if she 
didnt repay the outstanding balance it would transfer her account to a debt collection agency 
and this would be reported on her credit file. As Miss C didnt respond her account was 
transferred and closed in November 2020 and a default applied to her credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that TSB 
hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Miss C fairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss C has experienced and see if TSB has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss C back in the position she wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
Miss Cs main complaint point is that it was unfair TSB registered a default and missed 
payments on her credit file. So the question I have to ask is whether TSB did anything wrong 
in closing Miss Cs account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, 
closing her account and registering a default when she didnt pay back the outstanding 
balance of her overdraft in the required time or agree another payment plan.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that TSB acted unfairly when 
it closed Miss Cs account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see that 
TSB made phone calls and sent a number of letters to the address it had registered for Miss 
C notifying her that her account was in arrears, a payment plan needed to be agreed and 
what was to happen to her account if no action was taken. 
Miss C doesnt dispute receiving these letters or calls but thought TSB was sending the 
letters despite the arrangement in place. But Ive seen no evidence of this being the case 
and ultimately all it wouldve taken was a call to TSB to confirm this. So as there has been 
no error on TSBs side Im satisfied it was entitled to make the decision to close Miss Cs 
account as it gave Miss C plenty notice of what was to happen if she didnt take appropriate 
action. And I dont think TSB did anything wrong in transferring Miss Cs account to 
recoveries when she failed to pay back what she owed it  I think its reasonable for TSB to 
put steps in place to recover this  and register a default on her credit file.
I understand that Miss C is concerned about the impact this has had on her credit report, but
TSB has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate  and although she mayve made 
payments towards her debt these payments werent part of an agreed payment plan with 
TSB and as no plan was in place the only thing TSB can report is that fact. 
Ive noted Miss Cs concerns that her credit rating may affect her ability to borrow money. 
She might be interested to know that she can place a Notice of Correction on her credit 
records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any 
explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. If she wishes to do this, she should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think TSB treated Miss C unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman