DRN-3781828
The complaint
Mr A and Ms A complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) only partially 
covered their claim for damage caused by a fallen tree during a storm.
Mr A is the named policyholder for the buildings and contents insurance underwritten by 
RSA. His representative, Mr E, handled the claim and complaint on his behalf, but for ease 
Ill refer only to Mr A throughout my decision.
What happened
During a named and well-publicised storm, a fallen tree damaged Mr As tennis court 
surround. He claimed under his home insurance policy. 
RSA covered the removal of the tree, but it declined cover for what it considered to be a 
fence.
Mr A complained to RSA, but it said the policy didnt provide cover for damaged fences. He 
disputed the classification of the tennis court surround as a fence, saying it was netting and 
should be considered part of the overall structure.
RSA maintained its decision to decline cover for the fence, so Mr A brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator thought RSA had declined the claim for the tennis court surround fairly and 
in line with the policy. She said although the policy didnt define a fence, the dictionary 
described a fence as the same type of enclosure as that surrounding Mr As tennis court. 
The policy excluded cover for damage to fences caused by fallen trees, so our investigator 
didnt think RSA had done anything wrong by declining that part of Mr As claim.
Mr A didnt agree. He said a fence was a boundary between two areas of land, whereas the 
surround here is an integral part of the tennis court. Further to this, Mr A said RSA accepted 
the claim for the fallen tree, yet it would only be covered if it also caused damage to the 
buildings. The tennis court is defined as part of the building. So, Mr A said that means RSA 
accepted that the tree damaged the tennis court, indicating that the fence must, therefore, be 
part of the tennis court. He said RSA should cover his claim for the surrounding fence.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute about the circumstances of the claim. The first issue is whether the tennis 
court surround is classed as part of the tennis court or a fence. The classification makes a 
difference under the policy.
Neither a tennis court nor a fence are defined in the policy booklet, so Ive thought carefully 
about whether the tennis court surround should be classed as a fence. The surround is a 
barrier between the tennis court and the rest of the garden, held in place by posts. Tennis 
could be played with or without the surround. On balance, I think the surround is more likely 
to be a fence than an integral part of the tennis court, and I note that Mr A and Mr E have 
each referred to it as a fence at some point in their correspondence. Therefore, Im satisfied 
that RSA reasonably considered Mr As claim as one for fence damage. 
As Ive decided it was a fence, for ease Ill continue to refer to it as such.
The nest issue is that RSA declined cover for the fence under the buildings section of the 
policy as follows:
What we cover: Damage to your buildings caused by the following:
Peril 10 Falling trees or branches. 
What we dont cover: Damage to fences, hedges or gates.
A fallen tree damaged the fence. While the definition of buildings includes fences, the policy 
specifically excludes cover for damage to fences caused by fallen trees. So, Im satisfied that 
RSA declined that part of the claim fairly under the terms of the policy.
Ive thought about Mr As comment that RSA covered the costs of the fallen tree removal, 
which is only covered under the policy if the buildings have also been damaged. Therefore, 
he says RSA mustve accepted that the fence was part of the buildings. I understand the 
point hes making but the definition of buildings includes both the tennis court and fences. 
So, RSA wouldve provided cover for the tree regardless of whether it was the tennis court or 
a fence that was damaged because it accepted that the buildings, as defined, were 
damaged. 
But that doesnt change the fact that the policy specifically excludes cover for the fence 
under the falling tree peril, so I wouldnt have expected RSA to pay for the damaged fence. 
Overall, I can understand Mr As frustration that his tennis court fence wasnt covered under 
the claim. But Im satisfied that RSA responded to the claim fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
I wont be asking RSA to do any more here.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman