DRN-3909095
The complaint and what happened
Ms G complains that Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse money she lost as a result 
of an investment scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
Ms G was contacted by who she thought was an acquaintance on a social media 
platform with an investment opportunity (it turned out theyd been hacked). Having 
been persuaded to trade in crypto-currency, Ms G started with an initial investment of 
£167.91. She was then told her investment had increased in value to $4,700 but to 
make a withdrawal Ms G needed to pay commission, so she sent a further £750. Ms 
G was then told shed need to upgrade her account to receive a verified status and 
shed need to send another £1,350. Although she queried the fees, she was told the 
upgrade was needed to withdraw. Ms G was told shed get back $24,900. All of these 
transactions were sent to a crypto-currency exchange on 6 January 2022.
Ms G realised shed been scammed when she couldnt make a withdrawal. She 
complained to Nationwide who didnt think it had done anything in processing the 
payments. It also provided a link if Ms G wanted to raise a chargeback for any of the 
payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She wasnt persuaded the 
payments were such that Nationwide ought to have intervened in them. And she 
explained if Ms G wanted to raise a chargeback, she had been provided the details to 
do that. 
Ms Gs representative has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It 
remains of the view the payments were unusual and so Nationwide ought to have 
intervened and had it done so it considers the scam would have unravelled. It also 
explained Ms G wouldnt have been able to act on the information provided about a 
chargeback due to a lack of mental capacity at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Throughout the course of this complaint, Ms Gs representative has referred to the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM)  which provides for a refund except in 
limited circumstances, where a person has fallen victim to an authorised push 
payment fraud. And it has disappointingly continued to make such arguments despite 
knowing Ms Gs payments arent push payments, they were made by card and so 
they are pull payments. That means the CRM isnt applicable and so I wont be 
making further reference to it within my findings. 
Under banking regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks and building societies should execute an authorised payment 
instruction without undue delay. The starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer even where they are tricked into making that payment. 
There is no dispute Ms G authorised the payments. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, banks 
and building societies have a duty to protect their customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams so far is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I have reviewed Ms Gs account activity for several months prior to her making the 
payments in dispute.  I accept she has never paid a crypto exchange before. But that 
of itself doesnt mean a payment should be paused pending further enquiries  
buying crypto assets was and is a legitimate exercise which hundreds of thousands 
of people do every day. That it might be a high-risk venture is not Nationwides 
concern  it wasnt and nor was it required to provide investment advice about buying 
a crypto asset. 
I accept the final disputed payment made is higher than other spending on the 
account and it is to a new payee, only set up that day. But Im not persuaded the 
pattern of payments, nor the amounts, were so unusual that they ought to have 
appeared suspicious such that Nationwide ought to have paused any of them before 
following its customers instruction.
Ms Gs representative has argued the payments equated to almost the entirety of the 
balance. But thats not strictly true. Ms G often operated her account such that there 
was very little balance left. Her statements show that any spare money is often 
transferred to another account, presumably a savings account. And when she wants 
to spend on items that arent day to day, she transfers money in. Thats exactly what 
she did here, transferring money in from another account the day before. So her 
account wasnt drained in the way the representative is suggesting  she merely 
used the money she had transferred in the day before. 
Ms Gs representative has submitted that she lacked mental capacity to understand 
the chargeback process. However, it has provided no independent evidence in 
support of that position, indeed I find it somewhat surprising given Ms G had mental 
capacity to report the scam and explain to Nationwide what had happened. In any 
event, a chargeback had no prospect of success. Ms G paid money to a crypto 
exchange, at the point the fiat money was changed to crypto, the service is 
considered provided. 
I acknowledge Ms G has been a victim of a scam. But as I dont think Nationwide has 
done anything wrong, I am not making an award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman