DRN-3854196
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) managed his accounts 
following a change in his circumstances.
Mr C has been represented. And Mr C says he has changed his name. For clarity, Ive only 
referred to Mr C throughout this decision. 
What happened
In June 2019, HSBC approved a loan application made by Mr C to lend him £1,000. Under 
the loan agreement, Mr C was expected to make one payment of £27.61, followed by 59 
payments of £27.38.
In July 2019, Mr Cs personal and financial circumstances changed. 
In January 2020, HSBC received a call requesting that Mr Cs personal loan account was 
closed due to the change in his personal and financial circumstances and because Mr C said 
he never took out this loan. The caller failed HSBCs checks and so, HSBC suspended      
Mr Cs online banking, as the caller told HSBC it had access to Mr Cs online banking. HSBC 
told the caller it would need to speak to Mr C.
Following this, it received a letter from Mr C explaining his circumstances had changed. He 
asked HSBC to put his loan payments on hold and said he gave his partner permission to 
manage his direct debits. 
In April 2020, Mr C asked HSBC about a payment deferral due to the impact of Covid-19. 
HSBC asked Mr C to complete and submit an online application. Mr C also wrote to HSBC 
and asked it to respond to the letter he sent it in January 2020.
In May 2020, a third party mandate was provided to HSBC to allow Mr Cs partner to 
manage his accounts. In June 2020, HSBC added Mr Cs partner to his current account. 
In January 2021, Mr C wrote to HSBC and asked it to respond to his letters. He also asked 
HSBC to send him a copy of his latest statement. HSBC responded and told him that his 
partner was listed as a third party on his account since May 2020 and it had posted his latest 
statement to him. It said it couldnt locate any previous correspondence and asked it to 
correspond with him with his new name only going forward. It said this may be causing 
issues in allocating the correspondence as the signatures dont match on letters. HSBC 
asked Mr Cs partner to contact the bank so it could assist her.
In June 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr C and told him it would be reducing his overdraft limit from 
£2,000 to £900 and this would apply from July 2021.
Unhappy with this, Mr C complained to HSBC. He said he told HSBC about his change in 
circumstances in July 2019 and asked for a period of grace on his loan. He said he asked 
that his partner be able to manage his account. He said he filled in the relevant paperwork 
and was told she could access the account after 10 days. But when his partner tried to 
access the account, it was locked. Mr C said HSBC ignored his letters and that his partner 
had received a loan statement from HSBC which showed it was using Mr Cs overdraft to 
make the loan repayments. He said he wanted HSBC to place his account on hold, to credit 
the money it had used from his overdraft to pay his loan back to the balance of his loan and 
for HSBC to allow his partner to access the account so she could keep it in credit. 
HSBC issued its response to Mr Cs complaint in July 2021. It said its records showed it 
didnt receive any correspondence from Mr C about his change in circumstances until 2020. 
It said this was because he used a different surname in his correspondence. HSBC said it 
hadnt received any instruction from Mr C to cancel his direct debit for his loan payments. It 
also said it couldnt place a hold on loan payments and if Mr C was unable to keep up with 
his payments, his account would fall into arrears and the collection process would start. 
It also said it had reduced Mr Cs overdraft limit from £2,000 to £900 as no credits had been 
paid into the account for some time, which was a breach of its terms and conditions. HSBC 
said if Mr Cs overdraft limit was exceeded, it would start its collections process. Finally it 
said it holds a third party mandate for Mr Cs partner but this was for the bank account only, 
not the loan account. And so, it required a new mandate to be filled out by Mr C. It said it had 
asked Mr Cs partner to visit a branch to resolve access to Mr Cs telephone banking in 
January 2021, but it hadnt received any further contact from her.
Mr C wrote to HSBC in September 2021 and asked it to respond to his letters he had been 
sending. He also said he was unhappy HSBC had called his mother to ask where he was 
when it had already been made aware of his circumstances.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint to this service in December 2021. He 
reiterated his complaint and he said that HSBC were harassing his mother and partner by 
phone. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said HSBC received instructions from Mr C to 
state he had changed his name by deed poll to another name. And so, HSBC used this other 
name and they would have had difficulty in assigning letters from Mr C to the account when 
it had another name on it. He said he didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly when they didnt 
add his partner as a third-party to the account as the relevant documentation hadnt been 
returned to them. He also thought HSBC acted fairly when they continued to collect Mr Cs 
loan payments and didnt put his account on hold. And he said he thought HSBCs offer to 
pay Mr C £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C said he would accept HSBCs offer to pay him £200. But he said each letter he sent 
HSBC had his current name and signature, previous name and signature and his sort code 
and account number. He said his partner wasnt told new documentation was required to 
complete the process and instead she was reassured that the documentation had been filled 
out correctly. He also said HSBC had harassed his mother by calling her daily, despite him 
not living with her for more than 10 years. Mr C said HSBC was also harassing his partner 
by sending her threatening letters about his debt, despite being aware Mr C doesnt live at 
his partners property. He said he had every intention to pay his debt and HSBC could have 
gone about this better by responding to his letters. He said he would pay £1 per month until 
his circumstances changed if the ombudsman found in favour of HSBC. 
Our investigator said he thought Mr Cs letters could have caused confusion to HSBC given 
the different names on them. And that the supporting information he had been supplied by 
HSBC showed that it had asked Mr Cs partner for new documentation to add her as a third 
party to his account. He also said he could only consider the impact of HSBCs actions to   
Mr C, not other parties. 
As Mr C remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I wrote to HSBC and Mr C. I said I was minded to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint because 
I didnt think HSBC should have taken payments from Mr Cs current account for the loan 
account from June 2020. This was around the time the current account went into its 
overdraft. I asked HSBC to reconsider its position in light of its internal policies. It did this 
and agreed it should have stopped taking payments towards Mr Cs loan account from the 
current account from June 2020. HSBC said this would mean Mr Cs outstanding current 
account debt would be reduced from £906.41 to £468.33. This was a reduction of £438.08 to represent 16 payments of £27.28. It said the loan balance would increase to £1,423.76 and 
the default date would be revised to June 2020 instead of June 2022.
Mr C said he was happy with what HSBC had proposed to do. However he reiterated his 
complaint and said he asked HSBC to cancel his direct debits and so he didnt think he 
should be left with a balance to pay. He also said he wanted HSBC to write a note on his 
credit file to go towards repairing his credit score as he made his intention to repay the loan 
known at his earliest opportunity. Mr C also said HSBC should put policies in place to deal 
with the next of kin impacted with those customers in the same circumstances as Mr C.
Mr C has complained that HSBC and its agents contacted his mother and partner about the 
outstanding debt. However, I cant consider these complaint points as part of this decision as 
Mr Cs partner and mother are not the complainant for the purposes of this complaint. I can 
only consider the impact of HSBCs actions to Mr C. 
As Mr C remains unhappy, Ive considered his remaining complaint points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a good deal of evidence, so Ive had to summarise things in this 
decision. The rules of our service allow me to do this. I want to assure the parties, if I dont 
mention every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I 
have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. However, Im going to 
concentrate here on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall. 
As part of this decision, I havent considered HSBCs policies for treating next of kin in 
similar personal circumstances such as Mr Cs. This is because HSBCs policies are 
commercial decisions and its down to HSBC to decide how to communicate with its 
customers and others. This isnt something I can get involved with.
What I need to decide in this case is whether it was fair for HSBC to continue taking 
payments for Mr Cs loan, despite it being aware of the change in his circumstances, 
whether it fairly communicated with Mr C and whether it acted reasonably in respect of       
Mr Cs request to add his partner as a third party to his account. For clarity, Ive considered 
all of these issues separately. 
Communication between HSBC and Mr C
Mr C has complained that HSBC didnt respond to his letters, despite him sending letters to 
HSBC in the name of Mr C and also his new name that he legally changed to.
HSBC said it didnt attach Mr Cs letters to his account profile because he used two names in 
his letters. He said this caused confusion when the letters were scanned in on its system. It 
explained this is why it didnt respond to Mr Cs letters until January 2021.
Ive seen a copy of these letters and can see that Mr C wrote to HSBC using his details as 
Mr C, but mentioned he was also known as his new name. He also mentioned his address, 
sort code and account number on these letters. I can see that HSBC wrote back to Mr C 
using his new name, but at the last registered address prior to Mr Cs circumstances 
changing.
Ive thought about this carefully and having done so, I dont think HSBC acted incorrectly. I 
consider that Mr Cs letters were likely confusing as two separate names and signatures 
were on the letters. Given it appears that correspondence received to HSBC is scanned on 
to a system and then allocated to a customer profile, two different names would have likely 
been confusing. In addition, HSBC didnt have Mr Cs name registered to his account, only his new name. Once it became aware of Mr Cs complaint, HSBC responded to Mr C. And 
so, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong here. 
Having said this, I think HSBC should have been reasonably aware that Mr C had changed 
his address and I think it should have sent letters to him at his new address after it 
corresponded with him again. Although, I dont consider writing to Mr Cs previous address 
had any financial impact to Mr C, as his circumstances didnt change. However, Im satisfied 
that Mr C was inconvenienced as a result of this error as he had to continue chasing HSBC. 
HSBC has made an offer to pay Mr C £200 as a gesture of goodwill for errors in the service 
it provided Mr C. I think this offer is fair and reasonable for HSBCs error in writing to Mr Cs 
previous address.
Third party access to Mr Cs accounts
Ive reviewed a copy of the completed third party mandate which was provided to HSBC in 
May 2020. Having done so, I dont think HSBC did anything incorrectly when it only added 
Mr Cs partner as a third party to his current account. Ill explain why.
The third party mandate form asks, I/We require this mandate to cover all accounts held 
now Please tick box. This box has been ticked. However, the statement after this asks, 
OR if you wish to limit this mandate to specific accounts please complete the relevant 
account details below. A sort code and account number has been filled out in this section. 
And so, HSBC only added Mr Cs partner as a third party to his current account and not his 
other accounts. 
When Mr C wrote to HSBC in January 2020, prior to completing the third party mandate 
form, he said, I hereby give my partner [name] of the same address permission to manage 
my direct debits etc.. However, this instruction isnt clear. And so, I dont think HSBC acted 
unfairly when it only added Mr Cs partner as a third party to his current account, as his 
instructions were unclear and he specifically asked HSBC to limit her access to the account 
he had listed as part of the form. HSBC followed these instructions. 
I can also see that in June 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr Cs partner and asked her to provide 
new authority for her to be able to access Mr Cs telephone banking. It said third party 
authority was currently restricted. This was as a result of the decision it had taken to restrict 
the telephone banking authority in January 2020 when it received a call from an unknown 
caller. I dont think HSBC acted unfairly here when taking these actions, as it didnt have 
authority from Mr C to allow another party access to his telephone banking.
Payments towards the loan account
Since the complaint has been referred to this service, HSBC has agreed it shouldnt have 
taken further payments towards the loan account once Mr Cs current account went into 
overdraft in June 2020. Mr C has agreed with this. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
I note that Mr C would like HSBC to place a note on his credit file. However, I dont require it 
to do this given I dont think HSBC unfairly defaulted Mr Cs account and that it has agreed 
to change the date of the default. 
Payments made from the current account
Apart from the payments made to the loan account, other regular payments were made out 
of Mr Cs current account. The last payment out of the account was made in October 2021. 
Mr C says he told HSBC to cancel his direct debits apart from his pet insurance direct debit.  
Ive reviewed all the correspondence Mr C sent HSBC and I can see he asked it to stop 
payments leaving his account because he didnt want his account to go into overdraft. But he didnt tell HSBC to cancel any of his direct debits. In addition, Mr Cs partner had third-party 
access for his current account since May 2020. And so, she would have been able to cancel 
the direct debits. Shes confirmed to this service she did cancel some of them.
So having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
pursue Mr C for the remaining balance owed on Mr Cs current account after HSBC makes 
the adjustments above, because he didnt instruct HSBC to cancel his direct debits. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
do the following:
Reduce the current outstanding debt owed by Mr C for the current account from 
£906.41 to £468.33;
Amend the default date of the loan account from June 2022 to June 2020;
Amend the loan balance to £1,423.76 to reflect the outstanding amount owed by     
Mr C; and
Pay Mr C £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused.*
* If HSBC UK Bank Plc does not pay this £200 compensation for inconvenience and distress 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision, then it must 
also pay 8% simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman