DRN-2025333
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with her accidental damage insurer, One Insurance Limited, because it 
declined a claim she made after her laminate floor was damaged. Shes also not happy with 
the service she received when her claim was being looked at.
What happened
One Insurance Limiteds accidental damage policy was given to Miss H as a free add-on 
when she bought contents insurance for her rented property. In August 2019, Miss H began 
a claim for the cost of repairing the laminate flooring at the property, after it was damaged in 
an accident. 
One Insurance Limited initially looked at how much it would cost to do the repairs. But three 
months after the claim began, it decided the flooring wasnt covered by the policy. It 
explained to Miss H that this was because her main home insurance policy was only for the 
contents of the property, which didnt include her laminate flooring.
Miss H complained, because she felt the laminate flooring should have been considered part 
of the contents of the property. Our investigator looked at the matter, but explained how he 
felt the need to remove other parts of the property to remove the flooring meant it was fair to 
treat it as part of the building. But he also found One Insurance Limited should have done 
more to say at the start of the claim that the flooring might not be covered by the insurance 
policy Miss H had. 
One Insurance Limited had offered a £150 payment to Miss H during its complaint handling. 
Our investigator thought this acknowledged the disappointment and confusion caused by the 
way the claim was handled. But Miss H didnt agree. She still feels One Insurance Limited 
should pay the repair costs shes claiming for.
In her comments, Miss H has said about the policy being mis-sold to her, as she feels its not 
covering what she thought it would. I can see in this case theres a broker who sold and 
arranged the contents insurance policy and the separate accidental damage add-on. A 
complaint about the sale of those policies would need to be made to that broker. While I 
appreciate it has a similar name to One Insurance Limited, the broker is a different company. 
As such, the brokers sale of the policies isnt part of my decision about One Insurance 
Limited.
As the investigators view wasnt accepted, the matters come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain why, although I appreciate its not the outcome Miss H was hoping for, I find One 
Insurance Limiteds decision about what the policy covered was correct. Ill also explain why 
I agree the £150 payment offered by One Insurance Limited is fair to acknowledge the 
impact its poor handling of the claim had on Miss H. 
A booklet Ive seen detailing the accidental damage policy says its a free benefit of Miss Hs 
home insurance, and that the level of cover is set by the insurance schedule. Ive seen the 
schedule for Miss Hs home insurance, which shows she had contents insurance, but not 
buildings insurance.
The details Ive seen for the accidental damage policy dont specifically say it only covers 
accidental damage to the contents of Miss Hs property. But it makes sense to me that since 
this is an add-on to the home insurance that only covered contents, thats the limit of the 
accidental damage cover too. That means One Insurance Limited can reasonably decline a 
claim about accidental damage caused to the building itself, rather than the contents.
Where to draw the line between contents and buildings, particularly with laminate flooring, is 
a question weve been asked to decide on before. In simple terms, the difference comes 
down to whether an item can be taken out of the property without too much trouble.
Looking at the assessment that was done of the repairs needed in Miss Hs claim, skirting 
boards and other features of the house needed to be removed to take the flooring up. That 
tells me the flooring is a fixture of the property, similar to a kitchen worktop or wall insulation. 
Its possible to remove it, but not without having to do work to then put the property back to a 
reasonable state. I appreciate the property didnt come with the flooring  Miss H had it 
fitted. But the way its been fitted made it part of the building in my view. 
Ive also looked at documents One Insurance Limited sent to us when we asked for details of 
Miss Hs insurance, to see if these specifically mentioned laminate flooring. A general 
booklet about buildings and contents insurance defined what the broker who sold the 
policies meant by building. It included fixtures and fittings, which the booklet then said 
included fixed wall, floor and ceiling coverings (other than carpets). 
In my view, the work needed to take up the flooring makes it a fixture of the property. So as 
far as the policy is concerned, that makes it part of the building, not its contents. 
Ive also taken a look at some details Miss Hs landlord  whod usually be responsible for 
the condition of the building she was renting  publish on their website about repairs and 
maintenance to the properties they rent out. This says the landlord is responsible for 
repairing floors and skirting boards. This also convinces me that One Insurance Limiteds 
decision that the flooring was part of the building was correct.
So, given the accidental damage policy was an add-on limited to covering just the contents 
of the property, it was reasonable for One Insurance Limited to decide that the claim for 
damage to part of the building wasnt covered. 
But One Insurance Limiteds service did fall short in its handling of the claim. Three months 
was too long before telling Miss H her claim could be declined. It should have recognised 
from the start of the claim that Miss Hs cover was limited to just accidental damage caused 
to the propertys contents, and explained what this might mean for her claim about the 
laminate flooring repairs. 
Failing to give that sort of warning before assessing the cost of the repairs understandably 
left Miss H disappointed and frustrated when her claim was declined. The delay doesnt 
seem to have made the damage any worse, but One Insurance Limited was right to feel 
some compensation was needed to acknowledge the emotional impact on Miss H. The £150 it offered in my view balances the added upset caused against the disappointment that might 
always have been caused by the claim not being covered by Miss Hs policy.
My final decision
Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. The £150 already offered by One Insurance Limited is 
suitable to acknowledge the poor handling of her claim. And the decision not to uphold her 
claim was reasonable, given the circumstances and the policy details.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2020. 
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman