DRN-3268845
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited 
provided the incorrect policy wording at the renewal of its commercial insurance policy.
Mr V, a director of G, has complained on Gs behalf. 
What happened
G bought a policy through Jelf, who act as an intermediary. The policy renewed in 
September 2019.
G claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. The insurer turned down Gs claim as they said the policy didnt 
provide cover in the circumstances. In the process of making the claim it became apparent 
that G had been provided with the wrong policy wording at the renewal of the policy in 2019. 
The policy documents Jelf had sent G provided cover in the event of a notifiable disease 
occurring at its business premises. However, the updated policy wording covered a specified 
list of diseases which didnt include Covid-19. 
G complained to Jelf and the insurer and said its claim should be paid under the wording of 
the policy it had been provided with. 
Jelf accepted the wrong policy wording had been provided but said they had provided G with 
another document which set out that there were changes to the policy and this explained 
that there were changes to the disease cover within the policy. Jelf also didnt think G would 
have done anything differently if they had provided the correct policy wording, so they didnt 
think theyd caused G a loss. 
Unhappy with Jelfs response, G brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Gs complaint but didnt recommend that Jelf do anything 
further. He said while Jelf had provided the wrong policy document they had made it clear 
there were changes to the policy and also had provided a link to the correct policy document. 
He also didnt think it was likely G would have done anything differently if Jelf had provided 
the correct documents.
G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It provided a detailed response 
explaining that disease cover was relevant to its business and that its impossible for the 
investigator to know what G would have done if the correct documents had been sent. G 
said it would have challenged the changes in cover it had known. G also thought Jelf should 
honour the contract that they sold.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all Im not going to 
address each individual point in this decision and will instead focus on what I see as the 
central issues in order to resolve this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and Governments response have had an impact on Gs 
business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Jelf provided G with the incorrect policy documents so I dont need to 
comment on that further. I realise that G thinks this means that its claim should be assessed 
based on the policy wording it was provided with. However, the policy is a contract between 
G and the insurer and not Jelf. Jelf are an intermediary and were responsible for sending Gs 
renewal documents. In order for me to require Jelf to compensate G to the equivalent of 
what it would have received under the policy wording they provided, Id need to be satisfied 
that, on the balance of probabilities, they caused G a financial loss by the mistake. 
G said that its impossible for anyone to know what it would have done if Jelf had provided 
the correct documents. While I accept that, I have to make a decision based on what I think 
is most likely. Having done that Im not persuaded that its most likely G would have bought a 
different policy if Jelf hadnt made an error. 
Ive looked at the documents Jelf sent G at the renewal in 2019. The Statement of Demands 
and Needs says that G is looking for a competitively priced policy based on the information 
provided in the Statement of Fact. There isnt anything in the Statement of Demands and 
Needs which indicates that cover for diseases was a specific concern for G. I accept that 
having cover for diseases would have been relevant to Gs business, but I havent seen 
anything from the time of the renewal to indicate that it required any wider cover for diseases 
than was provided by the updated policy wording. 
The Renewal Invitation includes a Notice to Policyholders. This says:
We are constantly reviewing our products to ensure that they continue to 
respond to our policyholders needsYour cover will be transferred to the new 
policy wording with effect from the renewal date of your policy
Under this there is a table which sets out the changes to the policy. Under Business 
Interruption it says:
Notifiable Diseases has now been replaced by a list of named diseases
The document says a policyholder should get in touch with their agent immediately if the 
cover no longer meets their needs. I recognise that Jelf sent the incorrect policy document, 
but I think the Notice to Policyholders made it clear that there were numerous changes to 
the policy and I havent seen anything to indicate that G got in touch with Jelf to challenge 
any of these changes. I also note that the same document provides a link to the correct 
policy documentation, so I do think it was available to G. 
While I accept that with the benefit of hindsight G says it would have challenged the changes 
to cover if it werent for Jelfs error, I havent seen enough to fairly conclude that would have 
been likely at the time of the renewal. I dont dispute that Jelf made a mistake and I can 
understand that being sent the incorrect documents would have been frustrating for Mr V, 
however, G is the eligible complainant in this case and as such I can only consider Gs 
losses as a limited company. In this case I havent seen enough to persuade me that Jelfs 
error caused G a loss and therefore Im not going to require Jelf to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman