DRN-3134879
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about Zurich Insurance PLC. She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her ultimate home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P made a claim under her ultimate home insurance policy following a flood abroad. The 
property damaged was covered under her UK insurance policy and when Zurich looked into 
the claim it wasnt satisfied about the circumstances surrounding the claim. It asked for 
details about items that were claimed for and looked to interview Mrs P and her husband 
about the claim.
As Mrs P wasnt happy about the ongoing delay in settling the claim and the way the claim 
was being handled she complained to Zurich and then this service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. He was of the view that 
Zurich had acted reasonably and that it was entitled to undertake the enquiries it had 
undertaken as part of its investigation into the claim.
Mrs P didnt agree. She had provided Zurich with all the information she had and thought 
that its questioning of her husband was unfair as he wasnt the policy holder. So the matter 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs P, but Ill explain why. Ive looked at all the information and evidence 
provided by both sides in looking to decide if Zurich has acted fairly and I think it has. 
I know Mrs P doesnt think Zurich has acted fairly and that she has answered all the 
questions asked of her. And she doesnt feel it is fair for Zurich to ask her husband questions 
as he wasnt the policy holder. But, as our investigator explained, in line with the policy 
Zurich is entitled to ask questions about the claim including residents at the policy address 
and any owner of property under the policy. And it seems likely that Mrs Ps husband owns 
or partly owns some of the property claimed for, so I cant say that Zurich has acted 
unreasonably in interviewing him. Indeed, Mrs Ps husband has advanced a lot of the 
complaint on Mrs Ps behalf, so he clearly has an interest in the claim.
I know the investigation took a while, but Zurich has genuine questions around the claim. As 
part of its investigation it has undertaken reasonable lines of enquiry and asked for signed 
mandates so it can gain information from brokers and previous brokers about this claim and 
previous claims; looked for information from loss adjusters; asked for proof of residency from 
being on the voters roll and driving licences amongst other things. And I see no reason why 
Mrs P and her husband wouldnt be as cooperative as they can about this.
Ultimately, Zurich has looked at this high value claim and has a number of unanswered 
questions and concerns about the claim which was reported late. I dont find this unusual or 
surprising given the value of the claim and I havent seen anything to say that Zurichs 
investigation is unfair. Insurers are entitled to look into and validate claims and Ill simply 
leave it to Mrs P to cooperate with the insurers investigation now.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman