DRN-4240662
The complaint
Mrs P complains Nationwide Building Society refused her a credit card because of her age.
What happened
Mrs P held a credit card with Nationwide for some considerable time. Mrs P hadnt used the 
card for some time, wasnt sent a replacement card and the account closed.
Mrs P made an application for a new credit card and the application was declined.
Mrs P complained about the decline and said she had very few outgoings and lots of money 
saved at Nationwide. 
Nationwide responded to say Mrs Ps application had been declined because of affordability. 
Nationwide said it didnt consider savings balances when applying for a credit card.
Nationwide said it would refer Mrs Ps application for a manual review, rather than relying on 
an automated process, but said there was no guarantee this would be successful.
Nationwide followed up its first response to say the manual application had also declined as 
Nationwide still felt there was insufficient disposable income.
Unhappy with this response Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld.
The investigator was satisfied Mrs Ps application had been declined on affordability and not 
her age. The investigator also thought Nationwide had given Mrs P a clear explanation of the 
manual review process and didnt necessarily need to call her to review the application.
Mrs P disagreed. Mrs P said shed recently applied for a lower limit credit card and also been 
declined. Mrs P said her credit score was 999, and didnt know why this would be the case if 
she keeps getting declined.
Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the application Mrs P completed, and she put her income, a pension, down as 
£6,000 per year. Mrs P later clarified her income was slightly more than this.
Nationwides said Mrs Ps income isnt enough to cover regular outgoings and pay towards 
any balance that might be on a credit card. I think its reasonable for Nationwide to consider 
whether Mrs P would be able to repay her credit card with the monthly income she receives.
Mrs P says her husband pays the bills and gives her other money each month. I dont think it 
would be reasonable for Nationwide to consider this in Mrs Ps application for credit.
Any credit card would be in Mrs Ps name, and shell be solely responsible for paying any 
balances on the card. The payments from Mrs Ps husband arent guaranteed, the only 
income Mrs P will definitely get is her pension.
I think its reasonable for Nationwide to consider whether Mrs Ps income alone is enough to 
cover other payments she might need to make as well as payments towards a credit card.
I can see Nationwide checked Mrs Ps credit file when she applied. This check is likely to 
have shown utility bills or other contracts and agreements Mrs P is liable for. 
Whilst I accept Mrs P may not pay these things, theyre likely to appear on her credit file and 
likely feed into Nationwides affordability checks. Id also expect Nationwide to consider other 
outgoings like council tax and food in an overall assessment of her likely outgoings.
Mrs P says she holds lots of savings with Nationwide. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to 
consider Mrs Ps savings balances when she applies for credit. 
Id expect Nationwide to assess about whether Mrs Ps monthly income is enough to cover 
her regular payments and make payments to a credit card if agreed. And Im satisfied 
Nationwide did this.
I think Nationwides made a reasonable decision, based on the level of Mrs Ps income 
alone, to decline the credit card application.
Mrs Ps said Nationwides decision is discriminatory, and its refused to give Mrs P a credit 
card based on her age. Mrs P thinks Nationwide has breached the Equality Act 2010.
The Equality Act 2010 is relevant law, so Ive considered it, but I can also decide complaints 
on whats fair and reasonable. If Mrs P wants a decision on whether Lloyds has breached 
the Equality Act 2010 then I think shed need to go to court.
Mrs Ps said her credit score is very high, and shed like whoevers responsible for her credit 
rating to explain why she was declined for the credit card.
Mrs Ps already got her credit score from one of the credit reference agencies, and its 
responsible for ensuring the datas correct and then represents that data with a score.
Nationwide wont see Mrs Ps credit score, it sees the raw data and makes a decision using 
that data. But Nationwides said why it declined the credit card, it wasnt because of poor or 
adverse credit, it was for affordability.
Credit scores and data dont show affordability, only credit agreements and how any credits 
been handled. Its for Nationwide to make a judgement about affordability, and from what I 
can see its made the decision fairly.
Mrs P says shes been paying £250 a month into savings every month for some time, and 
this demonstrates she can afford the credit card. But I can see Nationwides carried a full 
review, both automated and manually, and decided the credit cards not affordable.
Despite Mrs Ps regular payments to savings, I dont think this changes my thinking 
Nationwides assessment of Mrs Ps application was fair.Mrs Ps also said her income is guaranteed for life, its a pension. Im not disputing this, and 
nor, I think, is Nationwide. Nationwide is simply saying the amount of income isnt, in its 
assessment, enough to support a credit card.
I can see Mrs Ps strength of feeling about the declined credit card, and shes referenced 
some recent articles about pensioners being considered asset rich but poor credit risks.
Ive carefully considered everything Mrs Ps said, but I still think Nationwide made a fair and 
reasonable decision to decline Mrs Ps application on affordability alone. 
I dont think Nationwides decision was influenced by anything other than whether it thought 
Mrs P could afford to maintain monthly payments to a credit card.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman