DRN-4029680
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined his application for a new bank 
account which had a switch incentive and poor customer service led to a second credit 
search being registered on his credit file.
What happened
Mr K approached HSBC through their live chat enquiring about opening their Advance 
account. He says he was told he would be eligible as long as he passed the credit check and 
followed the switch requirements in order to get the switch incentive. Mr K therefore applied 
for the Advance account, but he received a letter from HSBC stating that he failed the credit 
check, and his application was declined. Mr K says that due to his high credit score he 
believes he should have been accepted, so he contacted HSBC again through the live chat 
where the agent told him that his credit score wasnt high enough to open the account. 
Mr K says he rang HSBC and explained his credit score and his income, and he was told by 
the call handler to reapply for the account. But the application was declined again. He said 
as a result of the declines his credit score has drastically fell. Mr K made a complaint to 
HSBC.
HSBC partially upheld Mr Ks complaint. They said when processing an application, they 
take a number of factors into consideration. This includes information provided on his 
application, information they may hold on their system and information they may obtain from 
Credit Reference Agencies. They apologised for him being told over the phone to reapply for 
the account and they said that they had arranged for the credit search to be removed from 
his credit file. They credited £75 to his account as an apology. HSBC said that had the 
Advance account been agreed he wouldnt have been eligible for the switch incentive as it is 
for new to bank customers and Mr K held an account with them. Mr K brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said the terms of the account stipulate 
that only new customers would be eligible for the switch incentive. So as Mr K already held 
an account with them, HSBC didnt make a mistake and the original credit check was valid. 
He said it was fair for HSBC to remove the second credit search and the compensation 
offered was in line with our approach to compensation. Our investigator said he hadnt seen 
any evidence that Mr K had been declined due to the second credit check. 
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he doesnt understand why 
his application was declined due to him having a high credit score. He said that the second 
search from HSBC hadnt been removed from his credit file. Mr K says he missed out on 
other providers switch incentives and on other sales (such as a mobile phone), due to him 
not applying for these because he didnt want his credit score to be affected further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K was not eligible for the switch incentive as he already had an account with HSBC, and 
the incentive was only available to new customers. I can see that Mr K had a live chat with 
HSBC on 24 June 2022, where he asked the chat agent what he needed to do to qualify for 
the switch bonus and they sent him a link to their website which showed the criteria. So Mr K 
wouldve been aware that the website showed that the incentive would only be paid if he was 
a new customer of HSBCs. But he still applied for the account. 
The account did not have to be opened as part of a switch of a different account. So I would 
expect HSBC to process an application for this account, even if Mr K did indicate he wanted 
to switch his existing HSBC account to the new account. But HSBC declined the application. 
While Mr K has pointed out that he has a high credit score and he doesnt understand why 
the application was declined, HSBC have already explained to him that there is a number of 
factors which go into them deciding whether to accept an application or not. HSBC are not 
obliged to give an exact reason for declining an application as they can make a commercial 
decision to do so, and our service is unable to interfere with this. 
While HSBC did not accept Mr Ks application for the Advance account, he was offered a 
bank account from them. This is why he was sent a letter from HSBC which told him that 
theyd love to have him bank with them, they can still look at opening a bank account for him 
and they would hold the offer of the new account open until 5 August 2022. So here, the 
offer wasnt the switch incentive, it was the offer to open a new bank account for him  even 
if this wasnt the Advance account he originally applied for.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about HSBC not removing the second credit search from 
his credit file after the call handler told him to reapply for the account. HSBC have told us 
they completed the process via a bulk request. So they say they did remove the second 
credit search. Mr K had previously offered to provide our service with his credit file, but he 
did not do this. I asked our investigator to reach out to Mr K to give him a final opportunity to 
provide his credit file so we could evidence whether the second credit search is still showing 
on his credit file, but Mr K did not respond by the deadline given. So as HSBC said they 
would have removed the second search, and Mr K has not provided our service with 
evidence that they hadnt removed the second credit search, then I cant say that HSBC 
have made any errors in removing the second credit search.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about him missing out on other providers switch 
incentives and sales, such as a mobile phone sale. But here, I can only consider what did 
happen and not what might have happened. As Mr K says he didnt apply for these, then I 
cant say what the outcome of a credit check would have been. So I cant hold HSBC 
responsible for Mr K not applying for other offers he wanted to take advantage of.
But I am persuaded that HSBC let him down in the course of the events here. I say this as 
the call handler should not have encouraged Mr K to reapply for the account he had just 
been declined for. This would have caused distress to Mr K when he saw that two credit 
searches were showing on his credit file. And he would have been inconvenienced by having 
to get HSBC to remove the second credit check. 
So Ive considered if the £75 compensation for what happened here is fair. And while Mr K 
would strongly disagree with me, Im satisfied that it was fair for what happened. I say this 
because compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a 
business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their 
customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. So Im satisfied that 
the £75 compensation here is in line with our guidelines for the poor customer service he received from HSBC. So it follows that I dont require HSBC to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman