DRN-3962467
The complaint
Miss O complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (who Ill call Black Horse). She is also concerned that she wasnt 
allowed to leave the agreement, and she says the agreement was for four years and not the 
five years Black Horse are claiming. She says she was covered by a warranty but that had 
been cancelled.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Miss O has been represented at times during this complaint. As Miss O is named on the 
finance agreement I will refer only to her in this decision. I mean no disrespect to her 
representatives when doing so, and I thank them for their submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to hear about the problems Miss O has been having and I know my 
decision will disappoint her, but Im afraid I dont think Black Horse have done anything 
wrong here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss O acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
Satisfactory quality
Miss O took receipt of the car in June 2018, and it wasnt until over two years later, in August 
2020, that the car broke down. As Miss O had been able to travel almost 13,500 miles 
before the gearbox failed it doesnt seem likely to me that the fault had been developing 
when the car was supplied to her: the point at which Black Horse were responsible for the 
cars quality.
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider whether a car has been of 
satisfactory quality we should also think about whether it has been durable. The car had 
already completed 96,101 miles when it was supplied to Miss O, and I think its reasonable 
to expect some wear and tear. Miss O has explained that solenoid wiring on the gearbox is 
loose and I think thats an example of wear and tear and doesnt suggest the car hasnt been 
durable. 
So Im not persuaded this car has been of unsatisfactory quality.
The warranty
The total amount payable under the finance agreement includes £975 for a warranty.
Ive not seen a copy of the warranty, only the GAP insurance that was also financed under 
the agreement.
In November 2022 Miss O explained that the warranty was a problem but not as far as this
complaint goes, so I dont think Miss O is claiming Black Horse have done anything wrong 
in respect of the warranty.
It seems that any complaint about a warranty will therefore need to be raised with the 
warranty provider.
The length of the agreement
The agreement explains that its duration is for 60 months. Ive not seen any information to 
suggest it was for a lesser period and I therefore dont support Miss Os suggestion it was.
Leaving the agreement
Clause 14 of the finance agreement explained that Miss O could leave the agreement within 
15 days. 
But that didnt enable Miss O to return the car and exit the agreement without paying 
anything. Miss O would still need to have repaid the credit with some interest. 
The relevant legislation gave her short term rights to return the car and end the finance 
agreement, but only if it could be demonstrated that there was something wrong with the 
vehicle. As that wasnt the case, I dont think Black Horse were wrong to refuse to terminate 
the contract and take the car back.
Ultimately, I dont think Black Horse have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman