DRN-2712856
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit (FCE).
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr E, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
FCE have accepted rejection of the car so I will not consider that any further. What is now in 
dispute is whether the redress provided is adequate in the circumstances.
Our investigator suggested that to put things right FCE should:
deduct the £2,000 scrappage allowance from the money still outstanding on the 
finance agreement adding 8% simple interest to that allowance from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
allow the balance to be repaid through a repayment plan;
collect the car at no cost to Mr E;
clear Mr Es credit file in relation to this agreement.
Mr E didnt agree. He explained that hed had to drive the car whilst he waited for a 
resolution to his complaint and he thought his instalments should be refunded as well.
  
Putting things right
When a car is rejected we would usually tell the business to collect it, terminate the finance 
agreement and refund any deposit adding interest. 
Mr E didnt pay a deposit but there was a scrappage allowance for his old car which hes 
been deprived of. FCE should therefore refund that scrappage allowance and they should 
add 8% interest to compensate Mr E for being deprived of the money.
Wed expect the consumer to pay for any use they have had from the vehicle but may 
suggest some of those finance instalments are refunded if the use has been impaired.
Here Mr E has had use of the car, but that use has been a little impaired because the 
connection to blue tooth devices and voice control hasnt been working properly.
Ive therefore considered whether it would be fair to ask FCE to waive any of the finance 
instalments that have been due on the car. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to ask them to do so because theyve already reduced 
the outstanding debt by £350 for the cost of the SYNC unit. So, Mr E has not been paying for 
the equipment that hasnt been working properly. 
I can also see that FCE have reduced the debt by a further £152.50 to compensate Mr E for 
the time his car was in the garage being repaired: that too sounds reasonable.
Overall, my redress would be the same as what the investigator has suggested but confirm I 
am upholding Mr Es complaint and asking FCE to settle it.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr E;
deduct the £2,000 scrappage allowance from the money still outstanding on the 
finance agreement adding 8% simple interest to that allowance from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
allow the balance to be repaid through a repayment plan;
clear Mr Es credit file in relation to this agreement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman