DRN-2891475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the premium increases applied by BUPA Insurance Limited for 
their private medical insurance policies.
What happened
Mr R and his wife held a joint policy for many years. In April 2018, BUPA advised them that it 
was going to increase their insurance premium at the next renewal. 
Mr R queried the level of increase, and he and BUPA corresponded about the way in which 
it made its pricing decisions. BUPA then allowed Mr and Mrs R to transfer the joint policy into 
two separate individual policies. This was backdated to April 2018. 
BUPA advised Mr and Mrs R that the price increases that had been applied were largely due 
to age and inflation factors, but it wouldnt provide further details because it said the 
information was commercially sensitive. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs R brought a 
complaint to this service. They thought BUPAs explanation had been generic, partial and 
inconsistent.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BUPA had 
calculated Mr and Mrs Rs premiums fairly.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept our investigators findings. The matter has therefore been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R have provided very detailed submissions to this service, and their strength of 
feeling on the matter is clear. Ive considered their submissions carefully, however, we are 
an informal complaint-handling service, and so I dont intend to respond to all the points. Ill 
instead focus on the overall issues that I consider relevant to the outcome of the complaint.
As our investigator has explained, we generally take the view that its up to an insurer how 
much it charges for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgment fairly, we dont normally 
interfere in this. 
BUPA has explained to Mr and Mrs R which factors it takes into consideration when setting 
premiums. Its also provided this service with a breakdown which demonstrates how the 
various factors have led to the increases in premiums since 2014 (although Mr and Mrs R 
have complained about increases since 2013, BUPA now only has records from 2014).
As Mr and Mrs R are aware, I cant share this information with them because its 
commercially sensitive. Nonetheless, I can confirm Ive checked the information and Im 
satisfied BUPA has calculated their premiums fairly.
Mr and Mrs R want BUPA to refund a proportion of their premiums from previous policy 
years based on BUPA increasing the excess retrospectively, and taking into account their 
claims history. I dont think that would be appropriate. The excess was chosen by Mr and 
Mrs R based on their circumstances at the time, and was the figure they were prepared to 
pay towards any treatment. It would be unfair, with the benefit of hindsight, to work out that 
their claims history was such that they wouldve been better off if theyd chosen a higher 
excess in previous policy years and then be compensated retrospectively for that. 
When Mr R was corresponding with BUPA, it gave him some conflicting information. As our 
investigator has said, this was likely because it was trying to answer his questions without 
releasing commercially sensitive information. Though in doing so, this led to unnecessary 
confusion. BUPA has recognised this and has paid £350 compensation. I think that was 
reasonable. 
I do have sympathy for Mr R. Due to a previous medical condition, he says hes obliged to 
remain with BUPA and therefore cant obtain cover elsewhere that might be cheaper. 
However, I dont think BUPA has treated him (or Mrs R) unfairly in setting the premiums it 
did.
Mr and Mrs R have also raised concerns about the oversight of BUPA and its board. 
However, as our investigator has explained, that isnt something that this service would look 
into. Were a complaint-handling service, and our role is to consider individual complaints.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman