DRN-4014415
The complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a third party, complains that Everyday Lending Limited 
(Everyday Lending), trading as George Banco.com, irresponsibly granted him a loan he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2016, Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement for a loan for £3,500 that was 
payable over 36 months. The purpose of the loan was to pay for car repairs. Under the terms 
of the loan agreement Mr B was required to pay monthly repayments of £170.50. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £6,138. 
Mr B said Everyday Lending didnt complete adequate affordability checks. 
Everyday Lending didnt agree. It said it carried out a thorough assessment which included 
checks that were fair and proportionate. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Everyday Lending 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
As Mr B didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Lending will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive seen that Everyday Lending asked Mr B for details of his income, housing costs and  
regular expenditure as part of the application process. Mr B was earning an average monthly 
income of around £1,800, had rental costs of £350 each month and said his other living 
costs were around £700. Mr B also told Everyday Lending he had a monthly payday loan 
commitment of £520. I note that Everyday Lending decided to not to take the pay day loan 
commitment into account. Had it done so, it appears that Mr B may have only had 
disposable income of around £45. 
Ive also seen that whilst Mr B didnt have any recent adverse markings on his credit file, he 
did have a number of historical defaults which the credit check showed totalled at around 
£4,300. This was in addition to the sum of £815 he had by way of existing credit debt. I think 
all of this does suggest there was a risk that Mr B could be struggling financially. I therefore 
consider that before agreeing the loan, Everyday Lending ought to have done more to 
ensure its checks were proportionate by gaining a more thorough understanding of Mr Bs 
financial circumstances. This would have included asking him for more detail about his 
regular monthly expenditure. 
Ive attempted to consider what Everyday Lending would likely have found out if it had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. We asked Mr B to provide us 
with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. I 
appreciate this is something that takes time and creates some inconvenience, especially 
when it involves obtaining historical information such as bank statements. But the 
information Mr B eventually sent us was only selected pages from his bank statements, 
which doesnt provide an adequate enough indication of his financial circumstances at the 
time. I therefore agree with our adjudicator that the information they show unfortunately isnt 
enough to be able to fairly determine what proportionate checks would have been likely to 
show Everyday Lending, had it carried out additional checks. 
That means Mr B hasnt been able to demonstrate  the agreement was unaffordable. I 
therefore cant reasonably conclude that Everyday Lending ought to have known he would 
struggle to make the repayments.
It follows that, based on what Ive seen I dont think that taking on the monthly payments 
required under the agreement could be considered to be unaffordable at the time Mr B 
applied for the loan. I therefore dont think Everyday Lending acted unfairly in approving his 
application.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr B on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman