DRN-2754354
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the settlement that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin)
has paid out for a claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R and her family were due to fly abroad on 20 December 2019, for a short, specialist
package trip abroad. Unfortunately, their car journey to the airport was delayed due to
flooding on the motorway. So Mrs R and her family missed their flight. Mrs R said her travel
agent told her that due to the nature of her trip, there wasnt any way to make the rest of
their holiday. The family didnt travel as planned and Mrs R made a claim on her policy for
the lost costs of the holiday.
Initially, Catlin turned down the claim because it said it simply wasnt covered by the missed
departure; cancellation or travel delay sections of the policy. Ultimately, it reconsidered the
claim under the missed departure section of the policy. This section covers the additional
accommodation and travel expenses a policyholder incurs in getting to their pre-booked
destination if they miss their flight because of a listed insured events. Mrs R didnt actually
make new arrangements to travel to her destination and therefore didnt incur any costs. But
as a gesture of goodwill, Catlin agreed to pay 50% of the claim costs, less the policy excess.
It said this settlement represented the cost of additional outward-bound flights.
Mrs R was unhappy with Catlins settlement and she asked us to look into her complaint.
She said she was told when she first called up to claim that there was no reason why the
claim wouldnt be covered. She said she had had no choice but to abandon her trip.
Our investigator didnt think Catlin had handled Mrs Rs claim fairly. She thought that given
the adverse weather conditions were outside Mrs Rs control; it wouldnt be fair and
reasonable to turn down her claim. She thought a reasonable policyholder in Mrs Rs
situation wouldve expected to be covered by their travel insurance policy. So she
recommended that Catlin should reconsider the claim in line with the policy terms and
conditions.
Catlin disagreed. It said the policy wording made it clear that Mrs Rs circumstances werent
covered. It also queried whether Mrs R had left enough time to reach their airport, given the
local weather conditions on the day. Failure to leave enough time was specifically excluded
by the policy terms.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Catlin had settled Mrs Rs claim fairly and reasonably. I said:
As the investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers mustnt turn
down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other things, the terms of
Mrs Rs policy with Catlin and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether Catlin acted
fairly.
Its common ground that Mrs R and her family didnt reach the airport in time to make their
pre-booked flight on 20 December 2019, because of severe flooding on the motorway,
caused by torrential rain. They were travelling in their own car and planned to park at the
airport. Mrs R says that given the nature of the package trip; the travel agent told her she
wouldnt be able to make the rest of her holiday. Mrs Rs effectively claiming for costs of
cancelling her trip after she missed her outbound flight. So Ive looked closely at the policy
terms to see whether Mrs Rs situation was covered by her contract with Catlin.
First, Ive considered the cancellation section of the policy. This covers a policyholders
cancellation costs if they have to cancel their trip due to:
The death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
You being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
Your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any 
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; 
or
Your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire;
The police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted
burglary at your home; or
Your passport, or the passport of any person you were intending to travel with, 
being stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked trip; or
You, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee
being ordered to return to duty.
Having looked at this section of the policy, its clear that Mrs Rs situation doesnt fall within
any of these listed insured events. And effectively, at the point she left her home, she
began her trip. So I dont think the claims covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
Ive next turned to consider the Travel Delay Benefit section of the policy. This provides
either a benefit if the public transport a policyholders scheduled to depart on is delayed by
more than 24 hours; or cancellation cover if a policyholder has to abandon their trip because
their outward flight; sea crossing; coach or train departure from the UK has been delayed by
more than 24 hours because of:
Strike or industrial action provided that when this policy was taken out, there was no
reasonable expectation that the trip would be delayed;
Adverse weather conditions;
Mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea vessel.
In this case, Mrs Rs outward-bound flight itself wasnt delayed by the adverse weather
conditions  the flight took off as planned. So I dont think I can fairly and reasonably find
that Mrs R had to abandon her trip as a result of something the policy covers. In this case,
Mrs Rs trip wasnt taken because she missed her flight. This means I think it was
appropriate for Catlin to consider the claim under the Missed Departure on Your Outward
Journey section of the policy. This says:
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for necessary and reasonabletravel and accommodation expenses required to reach your booked destination, if you miss
your booked departure due to:
The vehicle you are travelling in to reach your international departure point 
breaking down or being involved in an accident; or
The public transport you are using to reach your international departure point 
being delayed, resulting in you arriving too late to commence your booked trip.
Mrs Rs car didnt break down and wasnt involved in an accident on the way to the airport.
And neither did she incur any additional travel or accommodation expenses in reaching her
destination, because she didnt travel as planned. So on a strict interpretation of the policy
terms, Mrs Rs claim isnt covered under this section of the contract either. However, Catlin
has stepped away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and agreed to settle
50% of Mrs Rs total claim to represent the likely cost of new outward-bound flights if she
had travelled on to her pre-booked destination. I think this was a fair and reasonable
approach and Im pleased to note that Catlin paid out such a settlement.
Ive considered whether it calculated the settlement fairly. While I cant now know exactly
what the costs of new outbound flights wouldve been; Ive looked up broadly the costs of
flying to Mrs Rs destination at around the same time of year. These seem to cost roughly
£500 per person. There were four travellers in Mrs Rs party, which means that additional
flights to get to their destination wouldve been likely to cost around £2000. Catlin paid half of
Mrs Rs claim - £2005, less the policy excess per person, which would always have applied.
So I currently think this settlement was fair and reasonable.
While I appreciate Mrs R has been left out of pocket and that she missed her trip because of
reasons beyond her control, the missed departure section of the policy simply doesnt cover
cancellation costs. And her claim isnt covered by any other section of the policy. So while I
sympathise with her position, I dont think Catlin needs to pay her anything more.
Mrs R says Catlins claim handler told her that there wouldnt be a problem with her claim
being paid out. I dont doubt it mustve been frustrating when she learned this wasnt the
case. But by the time she was given this information, it seems the travel agent had already
told her she wouldnt be able to catch-up the rest of her trip. So I think shed still have been
unable to travel as planned. This means I dont think she lost out as a result of any
misinformation she mightve been given.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Catlin didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mrs R confirmed shed received my provisional decision but had nothing more to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent me any more evidence or information to consider, I see no reason 
for me to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Catlins settlement is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman