DRN-3550216
The complaint
Ms K says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very, irresponsibly lent
to her.
What happened
Ms K applied for a catalogue shopping account in April 2014. Shop Direct accepted her
application and gave her an initial credit limit of £1,000. The credit limit was increased five 
times reaching £2,400 in August 2016. In December 2021 it was reduced to £1,010. 
Ms K says Shop Direct increased her limit without making sure she could afford it. She didnt 
expect the fast increase in interest and fees. When she contacted Shop Direct to say she 
was struggling financially it refused to accept lower monthly payments.
Our investigator did not think Shop Direct had lent irresponsibly to Ms K. He found Shop 
Directs checks did not show any signs that the credit would be unaffordable for Ms K.
Ms K disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the
complaint was passed to me. She said Shop Direct has damaged her financial situation and 
she also wants its refusal to reduce her repayments considering.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Prior to providing credit to Ms K, Shop Direct carried out a credit check using a credit
agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. And for the credit limit
increases Shop Direct assessed the spending and payment activity on Ms Ks account on
a monthly basis. The credit limit increases were set using that information.
Shop Direct has told us there were no signs of financial difficulties based on the initial 
checks it did. It has shared the results of the checks it carried out and having reviewed them 
I dont think there is anything to suggest that it would have been reasonable for Shop Direct 
not
have to have approved Ms Ks application. Shop Direct didnt ask about Ms Ks income,
and this may have helped it begin to build a picture of Ms Ks financial circumstances. But
even if it had, at this stage, I dont think it would have made a difference to its decision to
extend the credit. I say this because the credit check showed Ms K had a relatively low level 
of total credit available to her (£4,760) and was up-to-date with all her repayments. She had 
no credit searches in the last 3 months, and only one in the previous 12 months suggesting 
she was financially stable and not having any problems managing her money. So I think it 
was fair for Shop Direct to approve Ms Ks application and offer her an opening limit of 
£1,000.
I have then considered the credit limit increases. Before increasing Ms Ks limit Shop Direct 
each time reviewed how she was using her account. I have some concerns with this 
approach as its not clear to me why a borrower who is able to successfully manage a given 
credit limit can then automatically be deemed, without further checks at the time of the 
decision, to be able to successfully manage a higher limit. It seems to me that this logic 
would likely lead to continually increasing limits, unless or until problems arise. I think that it 
would have been helpful for Shop Direct to have found out more about Ms Ks financial 
situation on each occasion so that it could verify her income and committed expenditure. But 
I dont think from the information we have about Ms Ks financial situation at the time that 
had Shop Direct carried out additional proportionate checks, it would have found these credit 
limit increases to be unsustainable. 
I say this as Ms K sent us her full credit file, and this doesnt show signs of any financial 
difficulties or a reliance on credit at the times of the limit increases.
At the time of the each of these limit increases I can see that Ms K had in all but one month 
met her contractual repayments month, incurred no fees and her balance had been 
significantly under the limit every month since the account was opened. So I can to an extent 
see why this led Shop Direct to conclude that Ms K was managing the account well. And 
although I dont think that this, in itself, means that Shop Direct knew Ms K was in a position 
to sustainably repay an increased balance within a reasonable period, I find that the decision 
to increase Ms Ks credit limit at these times wasnt unreasonable based on the available 
evidence. When Ms K made her complaint about irresponsible lending Shop Direct reduced 
Ms Ks balance to £1,010, her balance was just under £1,000 at the time.
It follows I do not find Shop Direct was wrong to give Ms K the initial limit or subsequent 
increases.
I have then considered if Shop Direct treated Ms K unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. She referenced interest rate increases in her complaint. The terms of the account Ms K 
agreed to set out that the interest rate was variable. It increased from 39.7% to 47.9% on 2 
May 2015 and then decreased to 46.9% on 17 September 2016. Shop Direct sent Ms K a 
notice of variation in her statement prior to the changes as required. So I havent found any 
failings in that regard. 
Ms K is also unhappy Shop Direct refused to let her make lower repayments when she fell 
into financial difficulties following a reduction in income. I can see from the lenders evidence 
she contacted it in November 2021 explaining she was having problems. She then 
completed an income and expenditure form but as this showed she had insufficient 
disposable income to make any repayments on her card Shop Direct recommended she 
instead contacted StepChange for assistance. It placed her account on hold for 30 days. So 
I dont think it refused to help, rather that it advised she should get support to look at her 
overall financial situation. I am not clear from the file if Ms K did this.  
I am sorry Ms K found herself in this position but overall, for the reasons set out above I cant 
fairly find it was as a result of Shop Direct lending irresponsibly. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman