DRN-2715451
The complaint
Ms M complains that her Silver Added Value Account (SAVA) taken out with Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds) in 2016 was not downgraded to a fee free account in later years when she 
requested it, and she has lost out as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M say that she cant get Lloyds to downgrade her SAVA to a fee free account; and she 
has incurred price increases and overdraft charge fees as a result.
I can see from Ms Ms testimony that she has made several attempts online and by phone to 
try to get her account downgraded. She says her online attempts have not succeeded, and 
she hasnt got through to Lloyds by phone.
Ive looked at the evidence Lloyds has provided about its correspondence over many years 
to Ms M and Im satisfied that she is aware that she can contact Lloyds online, on the phone 
and in a branch.
Whilst I accept that she says she has found it difficult to contact Lloyds, I cant see any 
evidence that she got through to Lloyds and it refused to down grade her account or that she 
or indeed any other customer found it impossible to contact Lloyds successfully over the 
period concerned.
So, in my view, Im not able to say that Lloyds refused her request or was impossible to 
contact from 2016 to the present as I would need to if I were to uphold her complaint.
Lloyds is entitled to increase its fees provided it gives prior notice. And Ms M is responsible 
for managing her account to avoid overdraft fees.
So, although I know she will be disappointed, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong in 
this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman