DRN-3179829
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) missed information from the 
monthly statement on their joint account, which they say caused them a loss.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W needed to buy a new car, so they applied for a loan with a lender. This lender 
said that it would need bank statements with both Mr and Mrs Ws name on them before it 
would proceed with the loan application. 
Mr and Mrs W requested statements for their joint account from Barclays, however, when 
they got the statements, they realised that only Mrs Ws name was showing on them. And 
they say that because of this, they werent given a loan from the lender, because they 
couldnt prove the account was in joint names. 
Mr and Mrs W then made an application for a loan with Barclays, and they werent accepted. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, Barclays added Mr Ws name to the statements, 
so the statements were showing both account holders. It also provided Mr and Mrs W with a 
letter to say it had made a mistake, and that the account has always been in joint names. It 
said that it couldnt guarantee that any application for a loan would be accepted. But it did 
pay Mr and Mrs W £25 to apologise for not calling her back when it said it would. 
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr and Mrs W. They upheld the complaint 
because they didnt think Barclays had done enough to put things right for Mr and Mrs W. 
They felt that there had been an error, which had caused Mr and Mrs W an inconvenience 
and so they thought that Barclays should increase its offer by £100.
Barclays agreed to pay Mr and Mrs W an additional £100. However, Mr and Mrs W didnt 
think this was enough to settle things. They said that they had since taken out another loan 
for a car, but this was at a higher rate than what had previously been offered to them. And so 
theyve lost out here too. 
Because Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
There isnt any dispute that Barclays made an error in removing Mr W from the statements. 
Barclays think this likely happened back in 2015, when Mr and Mrs W got married and Mrs 
W updated her name. It seems to me that only Mrs W has been showing on the statements 
for a number of years now, so the impact to them could have been minimised had they 
noticed this sooner.
Nevertheless, clearly Mr and Mrs W have experienced some inconvenience as a result of 
Barclays actions. Theyve had to wait for the issue to be resolved and there was a delay in 
the letter being sent to them which would have proved the account had been held in joint 
names for a long time. 
Mr and Mrs W say that as a result of this, they lost out on a loan provided by a different 
lender. And they also werent approved for a loan with Barclays. I cant be certain if Mr and 
Mrs W would have been approved for a loan with the other lender. The lender has asked for 
more information as part of its checks, but this doesnt mean that theyd have been 
successful in their application.
I can see that Mr and Mrs W have raised concerns about how Barclays processed an 
application they made for a loan. This isnt a complaint that Im aware Barclays has 
investigated, and so I dont think it would be fair for me to comment on that in this decision. 
Although, its worth noting that I havent seen anything that leads me to believe that the initial 
error Barclays made with Mr Ws name not being on the statements has led to the 
application being declined.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W have since had to take out a loan for a higher rate, but as 
Ive said previously, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that they were ever 
accepted for a loan by the initial lender, or by Barclays. And so, I cant fairly say that 
Barclays error has led them to a loss here.
While I havent looked at the reasons Mr and Mrs Ws loan application was declined by 
Barclays, generally speaking, a business like Barclays, can decline a loan if the application 
doesnt meet its lending criteria. It doesnt have to let the customer know the reasons for this. 
However, if Mr and Mrs W feel Barclays have been unfair in declining their application then 
theyll need to raise this with Barclays.
For the reasons set out above, I think Barclays caused Mr and Mrs W inconvenience, and 
could have provided them with the letter of proof sooner than it did, so I think they need to do 
something to put things right for Mr and Mrs W.
Putting things right
I think that Barclays should increase its offer by £100  meaning it should pay a total of £125 
compensation. 
But I wont be asking Barclays to offer anything further in terms of the losses Mr and Mrs W 
say they incurred on a loan rate. I say this because I havent seen anything that satisfies me 
that Barclays actions has led to this loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Sophie WilkinsonOmbudsman