DRN-1936569
The complaint
Mr E complains that, after he transferred his savings to a fixed rate ISA provided by 
Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), he was unable to make further deposits to it, even though 
he was told that would be possible.
What happened
Mr E had, for some years, held a cash ISA with YBS. In early September 2019 YBS wrote to 
him to say it would mature on 25 September and, unless he instructed the society to do 
something different, be moved to its Triple Access ISA. At the time, the balance on Mr E's 
account was nearly £50,000. 
Mr E considered his options and on 27 September 2019 applied to switch his savings from 
the Triple Access ISA (to which they'd just been moved) to a fixed rate ISA paying 1.20% 
until October 2020.
In November 2019 Mr E tried to pay a cheque for £3,000 into the fixed rate ISA. He says that 
was money he'd received when a company in which he has shares was taken over. YBS told 
him however that he couldn't make any further deposits because the fixed rate ISA was no 
longer available to new customers. Mr E said he'd been told when he opened the account 
that he could add to it. Having now opened it, he couldn't open a further account and couldn't 
therefore use his ISA allowance for the full 2019/2020 tax year.
YBS agreed as a gesture of goodwill to accept Mr E's £3,000 deposit and to pay him £100 in 
recognition of the trouble he'd been put to. It said however that he wouldn't be able to accept 
any further deposits to the account. Mr E remained unhappy with YBS's response. He 
remained unable to use his full ISA allowance and was concerned that other customers 
might find themselves in a similar situation. He referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered Mr E's complaint but concluded that the society's 
agreement to accept his further deposit and to pay him £100 was fair in the circumstances. 
She noted that the information sheet about the account said that no further deposits would 
be accepted after the account was closed to new customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note first of all that the factsheet that YBS provided about its account said: 
"Rates fixed until 31 October 2020 for deposits whilst the Cash ISA remains available to new 
investors. However, the Cash ISA is a limited-offer product, which means it can be 
withdrawn without notice at any time. If you wish to make deposits into the ISA we suggest 
you arrange this immediately to avoid disappointment. Any payments received after the ISA 
has been withdrawn will be returned to you."
YBS couldn't say with certainty whether or when the ISA might be withdrawn. That would 
depend in part on how many customers applied for it and how much they invested. But that 
meant in turn that Mr E couldn't have known either how long he might have to invest further 
funds in it. But I think the factsheet made it clear that the opportunity for him to do so might 
be limited and recommended early investment.
Mr E says, and I accept, that he was told he would be able to put more money in the 
account. That was, however, accurate at the time; I don't believe he was told that would 
remain the case indefinitely. The factsheet said something different.
I accept that there was some confusion about the possibility of making further deposits, but I 
don't believe YBS was at fault here. I think its resolution of Mr E's complaint was a fair one.
Because of that, I don't need to consider in detail what the financial implications might have 
been for Mr E. I would however say that it's not clear that he has suffered any significant 
financial detriment. I make the following observations:
Mr E says he lost around £14,000 of his annual ISA allowance for 2019/2020. I 
accept that, but it's not certain that he would have been in a position to invest a 
further £14,000 between November 2019 and April 2020 in any event.
Mr E's cash ISA statements from previous years don't suggest he's generally used 
his full allowance since it increased to £20,000 a year.
The payment Mr E did make in November 2019 was a payment from a company 
takeover; it wasn't made up of money he would regularly expect to receive.
Whilst interest on cash ISAs is tax-free, so is the first £1,000 of interest earned on 
other savings in any tax year. It's likely that he could have invested in other accounts 
without having to pay tax on any interest.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I don't require Yorkshire Building Society to do 
anything more to resolve Mr E's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman