DRN-1593292
The complaint
Mr H complains about the sale of an income protection policy by Lloyds Bank PLC.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As the policy was taken out in 1991, theres limited information from the time of sale, 
which isnt unexpected. Although Mr Hs recollections are that he was told the policy 
would provide a sizeable investment return, theres no evidence from the time of 
sale to support that he was given any guarantee as to the surrender value. 
I can understand Mr Hs disappointment that theres no surrender value, but although 
the policy does have an investment element, the main aim of the policy was to 
provide income protection cover rather than act as a savings plan. 
The Product Particulars document explains there may be a cash sum at the expiry 
date, but that would depend upon the rate of growth in unit price, and payment 
couldnt be guaranteed. 
The quote gave examples of future benefits assuming future rates of return of 7% 
and 10.5%. Given the differences in projected values, I think its apparent that the 
future benefit couldnt be guaranteed. 
I cant be sure that Mr H was provided with these documents when the policy was 
taken out, but I think its unlikely that he wouldve agreed to take out the policy 
without any information about what it covered.
Mr H has focused a great deal on whether the sale was advised or non-advised. 
Given the passage of time and limited information, we dont know how the policy was 
sold. Nevertheless, I agree with our investigator that this doesnt make a difference to 
Mr Hs complaint that he was misled about the investment return. 
As Mr H has had the benefit of income protection cover since taking out the policy, I 
see no reason to require Lloyds to return the premiums paid.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint
.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman