DRN-2859097
The complaint
Mr C complains that Loans 2 Go Limited acted irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr C with a loan as follows: 
Loan Start date Capital 
amount 
borrowedTerm Monthly 
repayment
1 June
2020£300 18 
months£68.57
Mr C mainly said that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided him with the loan when it could 
see on his credit report that he already had problems paying other debt and so this loan 
wasnt going to be affordable for him. 
Our adjudicator thought that proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr C 
was spending significantly on gambling around the time and so Loans 2 Go ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Mr C wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan. So our 
adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and set out the steps Loans 2 Go should take to put 
things right.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. In summary, Loans 2 Go acknowledged that its credit checks 
showed some adverse information but said this would normally be expected given the type 
of lending it provided. Loans 2 Go said it hadnt deemed it necessary to do more checks or 
request Mr Cs bank statements before lending and it wasnt aware of his spending on 
gambling as Mr C hadnt disclosed this information. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
adjudicator and Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Cs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Loans 2 Go told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Loans 2 Go what he normally spent each month. Loans 2 Go 
did some background checks, including carrying out checks on Mr Cs credit file, and 
adjusted, as necessary, the figures it relied on when assessing affordability.  
Although the loan looked comfortably affordable on the figures Loans 2 Go relied on, Loans 
2 Go could see that what Mr C had told it about his financial situation seemed to be 
significantly at odds with the information shown on its credit checks. In particular, Loans 2 Go was able to see from its checks that Mr C was in arrears on a mail 
order account, an arrangement to pay had been set up on one credit card, another credit 
card had been running in arrears for the last three months and he also had a credit card over 
its agreed limit and two months in arrears. As well as this, it was apparent that within the last 
10 days, Mr C had settled a loan that had been four months in arrears. 
I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned that its search results indicated that it was 
unlikely that Mr C really had the amount of disposable income it thought he had. What Loans 
2 Go saw on its credit checks called seriously into question whether Loans 2 Go could rely 
on its affordability checks that suggested Mr C would be able to make the loan repayments 
for this loan  given that it was apparent he was already struggling to manage his existing 
debt obligations. I think this shouldve prompted Loans 2 Go to carry out more thorough 
checks into Mr Cs financial situation before agreeing to lend. 
I think Loans 2 Go should have taken steps to verify what Mr C was saying about his 
financial circumstances. Loans 2 Go hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it 
carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr C. 
Ive thought about what a proportionate check is likely to have revealed to Loans 2 Go.
Mr C has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go 
was likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a 
reasonable picture of Mr Cs finances at the time. And had Loans 2 Go looked in more depth 
at Mr Cs finances it would likely have realised that he was facing serious problems 
managing his money. I think it would have learnt that, around the time he applied for this 
loan, Mr C was regularly spending significant amounts on what appear to be gambling 
transactions. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to think that it was likely Mr C 
would be able sustainably to repay his borrowing  so it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly towards Mr C in 
any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. But he has paid interest and 
possibly charges on a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. With 
this in mind, Loans 2 Go should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr C bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to 
take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman