DRN-3655002
The complaint
Mr F complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (CapOne) marked his credit file with late
payment markers.
What happened
Mr F had a credit card from CapOne. His income was affected by the pandemic and he 
asked CapOne for a payment holiday (PH) under the FCAs support scheme. CapOne 
agreed this and it ran from 16 July 2020 for three months. The PH ended on 15 October 
2020. Mr F asked for a further PH on 13 November 2020. On 14 November 2020 CapOne 
notified Mr F that the PH had been agreed. On 16 November 2020, CapOne emailed Mr F 
to say the PH couldnt be agreed. Then, on 23 November 2020, CapOne advised Mr F the 
PH was agreed; but then on 30 November told him again that it wasnt.
On 19 December 2020, CapOne put Mr F onto a breathing space arrangement  whereby 
no payments were required, and zero interest was charged. But  missed payments were 
advised to the credit reference agencies. There was no end date set. Mr F stopped making 
payments and missed payment markers were advised to Mr Fs credit file each month 
between November 2020 and April 2020. On 14 April 2021, a Notice of Default was sent  
which said the arrears of £617.37 had to be paid by 11 May 2021. Mr F paid off the 
account balance of £2,646.27 on 2 May 2021. So  a default wasnt registered.
Mr F complained. He said he shouldve been given a second payment holiday (PH) in 
November 2020 when he asked for it. He said CapOne had twice agreed to the PHs in 
emails to him, and then reneged on their decisions. He didnt accept CapOnes reasons for 
the decline  which were that more than 26 days had elapsed since the end of the first PH. 
He didnt want a breathing space arrangement, and nor did CapOne tell him about the 
effects of it on his credit file. If he had been made aware of that, he wouldnt have accepted 
it, and wouldve found money from his family to make the payments. He told us that he 
acted irrationally and stopped making payments to his account in protest  and accepted 
that was the wrong thing to do. He said his credit file was now affected and he couldnt get 
a mortgage  which he needed to buy a house.
CapOne said that Mr F had a PH from July 2020 to October 2020. After this came to an 
end, Mr F asked for an extension to the PH on 13 November 2020. They said it was 
agreed, but then, three days later, said it wasnt. They said that due to the timeframe 
between his PH ending and his request to extend it, he was no longer eligible for an 
extension. His request for a further PH came after the due date on his account  and so he 
missed the November 2020 payment. The same thing happened on 23 November 2020  
when, after Mr F contacted CapOne again, they told him the PH was agreed and then said 
they couldnt set it up. They apologised for the miscommunications and paid compensation 
of £50. CapOne applied a breathing space arrangement in December 2020, but his meant 
that missed payments were advised to his credit file. They said the markers were an 
accurate record of what had happened and should remain in place.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said CapOne acted reasonably. She 
said that CapOne had advised Mr F that the PH hadnt been agreed. After theyd told him 
the PHs was agreed, they had advised him that it wasnt. Mr F had then missed payments 
and this was reflected on his credit file.
Mr F asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision where I said:
I dont agree with our investigator and I will explain why. During our investigation, CapOne 
agreed to remove the first missed payment marker (November 2020), but I think they should 
do more than that.
I can see that Mr F had a payment holiday (PH) for the three months from July 2020 to 15 
October 2020.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
CapOne, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still 
be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 
2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation 
was that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme 
werent normally agreed; for example, where the customer was already in arrears before 
the pandemic.
In November 2020, The FCA announced that the support scheme would be extended again 
with effect from 25 November 2020.
When Mr F came to the end of his PH, CapOne wrote to him on 25 September 2020 to say 
it was about to end. The letter said Your payment holiday will end on 15 October 2020. This 
means that your terms and conditions will go back to what they were before the payment 
holiday. You'll need to make at least your minimum monthly payment and we'll apply interest 
and fees as normal. You'll see this on your next statement. Your first payment following the 
end of the payment holiday will be due on 12 November 2020. And so, I accept that Mr F
was told that he needed to start payments again on 12 November 2020  and he had 
called CapOne for another PH on 13 November 2020  one day later. But on the other 
hand, I can see on his October 2020 statement and on his November 2020 statement  
that the minimum payments required was shown as £0. So - its very possible that Mr F 
was guided by that and wasnt aware of the need to make a payment. That would be 
understandable.
But  its what happened next which is the crux of Mr Fs complaint. Mr F emailed CapOne 
on 13 November 2020 and asked, can you put me back on a payment holiday. CapOne 
replied on 14 November 2020 Thank you for getting in touch to request a payment 
holiday. This has been arranged and well send a letterto confirm the details. Your 
payment holiday gives you a 3-month break from payments. During this time, your 
minimum payment will show as £0 on your account. I think that was clear  CapOne 
agreed the PH.But then  CapOne wrote to Mr F on 16 November 2020 and said theyd changed their 
mind. They said We can't set up a payment holiday for you because you're either already 
on, or have been on, a payment holiday. Or you're on another arrangement that can't be 
changed.
Mr F contacted CapOne again to find out what was going on and they emailed there 
was already a payment holiday on your account which was exited on 15/10/2020. We can 
only extend the payment holiday within 26 days after the previous holiday has ended.we 
are unable to apply the extension.
Mr F challenged CapOne again and on 23 November 2020  CapOne again offered a PH 
and sent an email identical to the one sent on 14 November 2020  confirming the PH was 
agreed. And then on 27 November 2020, CapOne wrote again as they had on 16 
November 2020 to say they wouldnt give him a PH.
There are some aspects here which I want to comment on. Firstly, its clear that CapOne 
agreed to a PH, twice - even though they then changed their decision. But it seems to me 
that Mr F was entitled to think his request for a PH had been agreed; or at the very least, 
there was confusion. And  when Mr F asked for clarification, CapOne said it was to do 
with a 26-day time lag since the last PH  or that he already had a PH, or that he couldnt 
have a second one. I dont think any of those reasons are reasonable. Ive not seen 
anything in the FCAs guidance which says that a time lag is a factor in agreeing (or not 
agreeing) to a PH. And  Mr F didnt already have a PH. And  the FCA guidance says 
that customers could have a total of two PHs (for six months)  and so that wasnt a 
reason for the decline either.
We asked CapOne for clarification about the 26-day time lag and the reasons for decline  
and unfortunately they couldnt give any more clarity. The intention of the FCAs support 
scheme was that if a customers income as affected by Covid-19, then they should have 
been given a PH  which seems to be the case here. Mr F didnt appear to be in long term 
financial difficulty, or in arrears before the first PH  which wouldve been reasons for not 
agreeing to a PH. And  CapOne havent come forward with that argument.
And so  I think its reasonable that CapOne remove the missed payment markers for the 
months of November 2020, December 2020 and January 2021  as if Mr F had been given 
the PH as he had thought he had, and which CapOne shouldve given in the context of the 
FCAs guidance.
I then looked at the breathing space that CapOne put in place. Mr F says he wasnt 
aware of the missed payment on his credit file. CapOnes letter dated 19 December 2020 
said: We won't report your breathing space to credit reference agencies, but this won't 
change how we report things like late payments. Ideally, the letter might have been more 
specific about missed payments but on balance, I think CapOne did say to Mr F that his 
credit file would be affected.
Mr F has said that he decided to stop payments to his CapOne account in protest of what 
happened. And he said that to CapOne also. I dont think our service can take a position of 
asking a firm to remove markers from someones credit file in those circumstances. And 
therefore  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to ask CapOne to remove the 
missed payment markers after January 2021  as they were of Mr Fs own making.
I can appreciate the extent of Mr Fs frustration and anxiety at what happened  he says he 
hasnt been able to get a mortgage as a result of the markers, and I can see he made 
many challenges and requests to CapOne, but I couldnt see that at any stage they 
engaged with Mr F to explain their decision  they only said that the decision was what it was. And so, for the distress and inconvenience caused  they should pay compensation 
of £200.
I accept that this provisional decision will only remove three of the missed payment 
markers from Mr Fs credit file  whereas there are six. I cant predict how prospective 
lenders will view what remains on his credit record, but this provisional decision does 
propose that half of the markers are removed. And I think that on balance, that is the most 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of his complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision:
CapOne accepted the provisional decision, by Mr F didnt. He said:
He understood our position regarding the last three missed payments  but his 
action was taken in sheer desperation about the service he got from CapOne.
He said he should get more compensation  for the stress the situation caused. The 
impact on his credit rating has affected all aspects of his life, such as getting a 
mortgage and on his job.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the further points Mr F has made. 
But I think that the main impact on him has been caused by the markers on his credit file  
and it was his action that caused half of those. And as Ive explained, I dont think its fair for 
me to ask CapOne to remove all the markers.
On the matter of compensation  for the same reason, its not fair to try to compensate Mr F 
for the affect on his credit file  as he contributed to the markers. We award compensation 
for stress and inconvenience  in this case, the poor communications from CapOne, and 
because Mr F needed to contact CapOne a number of times to try to sort things out. And in 
the context of his complaint, the amount of £200 is the right amount that our service would 
normally award for what happened.
And so, while I accept Mr F will be disappointed, Im not going to vary from the provisional 
decision.
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc must:
Remove the missed payment markers from Mr Fs credit file for November 2020, 
December 2020, and January 2021.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman