DRN-2069808
The complaint
Mr U complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined a claim he made on his 
gadget insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr U called Assurant to make a claim. He said hed left a bag at a football 
match which contained two phones (phone A and phone B) and a tablet. Assurant asked 
for further information from Mr U to show he, or a member of his family, owned the devices, 
and that the two phones had been reported lost and blocked. Mr U sent it the following:
A letter dated 13 February 2020 from a network provider confirming phone A was last 
used on 11 February 2020 (two days after the claim was made). 
A copy of a bill from the same network provider relating to a monthly plan bearing the 
phone number in use with phone A dated January 2020.
Pictures of the boxes of both phone A and phone B. The box for phone A shows an 
IMEI number which matches the information shown in the network providers letter. 
The box for phone B also shows an IMEI number. 
A receipt from a different network provider showing a number of transactions relating 
to the purchase of a tablet.
A bill from that same network provider dated January 2020.
Assurant considered all three devices under one claim. It declined that claim because it said 
the letter dated 13 February 2020 wasnt valid and showed the wrong last usage date. It said 
Mr U had breached the terms of his policy by giving it fraudulent information. In reply, Mr U 
submitted the following letters from the network provider:
20 February 2020  this says phone A was reported lost on 11 February 2020. 
It says the network provider carried out checks then blocked it on 17 February 2020. 
And that it was in use between 2 November 2018 and 17 February 2020. 
24 February 2020  this says phone A was reported lost on 11 February 2020. 
9 March 2020  this says phone A was reported lost on 17 February 2020, blocked 
on that date, and in use between 2 November 2018 and 17 February 2020. 
18 July 2020  this says phone A was reported lost on 11 February 2020, blocked on 
17 February 2020 and in use between 2 November 2018 and 11 February 2020.
Assurant has sent copies of these letters to the network provider, who confirmed they were 
all genuine. 
Our investigator didnt think Assurant had demonstrated that Mr U knowingly provided 
misleading information, and thought it was more likely the network provider made an error. 
He thought Assurant should pay Mr U £100 compensation in relation to this. 
He also noted the policy terms said that if multiple devices were involved in one incident then 
each would be treated as a separate claim. He didnt recommend the claims be paid at that 
stage because he felt Mr U needed to do more to substantiate hed suffered a loss his policy 
covered. Assurant didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has Assurant demonstrated that its allegation of fraud was justified?
All Assurant has sent us to show the letter dated 13 February 2020 wasnt valid is an excel 
spreadsheet. In one cell, someone has asked whether the letter was sent by the network 
provider. In the next cell, someone has written proof not valid last usage also incorrect. 
The phrase proof not valid doesnt in my view show Mr U created, or amended, the letter. 
Moreover, its unclear who wrote this, what their role is, or how they reached this conclusion. 
A usage report received by Assurant suggested phone A was in use until 17 February 2020, 
not 11 February 2020. But the letter in dispute is dated 13 February 2020. So, it couldnt 
show a last usage date of 17 February 2020. And its clear from the subsequent letters from 
the network provider that theres some confusion as to whether the phone was in use until 
11 February 2020 or 17 February 2020. 
I think its more likely different staff members have interpreted the usage data in different 
ways. And that any discrepancies in the evidence result from this, rather than an attempt by 
Mr U to submit information he knew to be misleading. I think Assurants allegations delayed 
its handling of the claim and caused Mr U distress. So, I consider it fair for it to pay Mr U 
£100 compensation for that. 
Going by either date though, the evidence from the network provider suggests phone A was 
still in use until 11 February 2020 at the earliest, a while after Mr U says it was lost, and after 
he submitted a claim to Assurant. Ive addressed this under a later heading. 
Should the claims be grouped together or kept separate?
The terms are unambiguous on this point. They say:
If multiple devices are involved in the same incident then each will be treated as a 
separate claim and an excess will be payable for each device being claimed for. 
As such, each device will need to be considered separately.
Should any of the claims be paid based on the information provided to date?
In the event of loss, the policy covers Mr U for:
mobile phones and gadgets owned by the named account holder or family 
members who live at the same UK address as you (a family member is defined as 
your spouse / partner and also children under age 18, or under age 23 if in full time 
education, and they are living at home outside of term time).
The burden of proof initially rests with Mr U to show hes suffered a loss his policy covers. 
He needs to show, on balance, that the devices existed, were owned by him, or a family 
member living at his address, and have been lost.
I can see that the evidence presented by Mr U has been sent to two different addresses. 
And some of the letters refer to Mr U by a different first name. I think Assurant could fairly 
ask Mr U to clarify his full name and the status of each address, to support that the devices belong to him or a family member living at his address (as required by the policy). 
Phone A
The letters from the network provider are addressed to Mr U and say, your phone. 
Hes also provided a picture of the box and a corresponding phone bill. I think this would 
serve as proof of ownership once Mr U has confirmed his name and addresses.
The evidence shows phone A wasnt reported lost until 11 February 2020 and remained in 
use until that date at the earliest. This was after Mr U made a claim to Assurant. Given most 
devices have security features, like pin locks, to prevent unauthorised usage, I dont think 
Mr U has been able to explain why thats the case. He said he got a new sim card from the 
network provider and put it in a new phone. But the usage data is specific to phone As 
unique IMEI number.
Unless phone A was turned off, its possible that it continued to connect to the internet, and 
therefore to use data (which might show on a usage report) after it was lost. Mr U could 
easily demonstrate this by asking his network provider to send him an itemised bill from the 
relevant period which would show the nature of the usage after the date of loss. 
Ive previously asked Mr U to provide such a bill, but despite chasing this up, Ive received 
no response. In the absence of this, Im not satisfied Mr U has been able to demonstrate the 
phone was lost when he says it was, so I dont think Assurant needs to take this claim any 
further at this stage, unless Mr U sends it an itemised bill or can credibly explain the usage.  
Phone B
The only evidence Mr U has provided relating to phone B is a picture of the box. He hasnt 
produced any documentation to show phone B belongs to him, or a family member living at 
his address, or to show that its been lost.
Assurant asked him to provide evidence the phone had been reported to the network 
provider and blocked to prevent any unauthorised usage. But Mr U said he wasnt able to. 
Ive seen no compelling reasons why thats the case. Therefore, I dont think Assurant needs 
to progress this claim unless further information is provided. 
The tablet 
Mr U has sent a copy of the receipt, and corresponding bills. I cant see that Assurant has 
said anything else remains outstanding in relation to the tablet. So, I think this claim should 
proceed once Mr U has confirmed his full name and addresses.
In summary, I direct Assurant General to:
Remove any fraud markers from all internal and external databases.
Pay Mr U £100 compensation.
Allow four weeks from the date of this decision for Mr U to submit the further 
information referenced above.
Reconsider each device under a separate claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, pending the further information from Mr U.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to take the steps 
outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman