DRN-3753598
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by ALD Automotive Limited 
trading as Kia Contract Hire, following the return of a car under a hire agreement.
Mrs L is being represented in this complaint by Mr G. However, for ease of reference, my 
decision will refer to any actions or comments by either Mrs L or Mr G as being by or from 
Mrs L.
What happened
On 30 November 2018, Mrs L was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with 
ALD. She paid an advance payment of £680.94, and the agreement was for 36 months with 
monthly payments of £226.98. Under the agreement, Mrs L was able to do 24,000 miles.
On 11 October 2021, ALD agreed to an unofficial late hire of the car, for a period of up to 90 
days. They confirmed that this would be at a cost of £6.56 (plus VAT) a day with an 
additional pro-rata allowance of 666 miles per month. They also reminded Mrs L of the 
excess mileage charge. Mrs L terminated the late hire on 31 January 2022, and returned the 
car to ALD.
When the car was returned to ALD, it had done 38,158 miles  12,768 more than allowable 
under the agreement (including the late hire additional mileage). As a result, ALD charged 
£930.02 for the excess mileage. Mrs L wasnt happy with this and complained to ALD. ALD 
thought theyd acted fairly by charging Mrs L for the excess mileage, so she brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that ALD had made Mrs L aware of the mileage allowance, and the 
charges for exceeding this. She also said that ALD had charged Mrs L in line with what shed 
agreed to. As such, she didnt think ALD had done anything wrong.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the investigator hadnt considered the 
impact of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic on her need to use the car more that shed 
originally anticipated. And she thought ALD shouldve taken this into account when 
calculating the excess mileage charge.
Mrs L also said that shed contacted ALD several times during the pandemic, to let ALD 
know that additional mileage would be needed. And she didnt think it was fair that the 
investigator hadnt considered these calls. She also provided evidence that she was a key 
worker who was subject to mandatory working during the pandemic.
Because Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs L was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mrs L signed on 26 November 2018. This clearly says 
that the Total Contract Mileage was 24,000, and this was defined as the maximum mileage 
allowed under the Agreement without incurring a charge calculated in accordance with the 
Excess Mileage Rate, which was 6.07p per mile, excluding VAT.
Given this, and that Mrs L has said that she asked ALD about increasing the Total Contract 
Mileage, due to a change in her circumstances, Im satisfied that Mrs L was reasonably 
aware of how many miles she was able to do in the car, and what would happen if she 
exceeded this.
Mrs L has explained that, as a key worker, she was required to travel more miles during the 
pandemic than shed originally expected. And this resulted in her exceeding the mileage 
allowed. Shes also said that she contacted ALD on more than one occasion to discuss this 
and ask for an extension to the mileage.
However, ALD have said they have no record of Mrs L contacting them about the agreement 
before 8 September 2021, and this was to ask about extending the agreement. Because of 
this, they say that there was no request to extend the mileage. Which is why they cant 
provide copies of any calls where Mrs L asked for a mileage extension.
When faced with a situation like this, I need to decide what I think more likely than not 
happened based on the evidence Ive seen. While its noted that Mrs L said she called ALD 
to extend the mileage, she hasnt said when these calls took place. Nor has she provided 
any evidence i.e. from her phone provider, that she called ALD.
Whats more, on a hire agreement, one of the factors when calculating the payment is the 
expected value of the car at the end of the agreement based on the Total Contract Mileage 
not being exceeded. And, as a higher mileage usually results in a lower value, this would 
usually also result in a higher monthly payment. So, if a mileage agreement had been 
agreed, Id expect to see paperwork relating to this having been sent to Mrs L, and an 
associated payment increase.
But neither party have provided any letters or emails confirming a mileage increase, and the 
payment remained unchanged for the term of the agreement. So, whether or not Mrs L 
called ALD to ask for a payment increase, Im satisfied that no such increase was agreed. 
And ALD therefore acted reasonably by charging Mrs L for any mileage that exceeded the 
25,390 miles (24,000 plus 1,390 for the extra hire period) agreed.Ive also considered whether ALD treated Mrs L fairly under the Covid-19 guidelines that had 
been put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority. These guidelines explained to financial 
businesses the processes they must put in place for customers whose income had been 
affected by Covid-19. But theres nothing in this guidance that relates to extending the total 
allowable mileage without altering the monthly repayments or charging an excess mileage 
charge.
So, I dont think that ALD have breached these guidelines by not extending the total mileage 
allowed, and therefore by not waiving some or all of the excess mileage charge. And, as 
explained above, without any evidence that ALD and Mrs L agreed to an increase in the 
mileage allowed under the agreement, while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to 
Mrs L; I wont be asking ALD to amend their charge.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind ALD that, if Mrs L is unable to pay the excess 
mileage charge in full due to her financial circumstances, then they should treat her with 
forbearance and due consideration when making any payment arrangement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about Ald Automotive Limited 
trading as Kia Contract Hire.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman