DRN-3994609
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D are unhappy with the decision by Wakam following a claim for storm 
damage on their home insurance policy.
Wakam are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent, company D. As Wakam have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
company D, in my decision, any reference to Wakam includes the actions of company D. 
Mr D and Mrs D are both parties to this complaint. Mr D has primarily dealt with this service 
throughout this complaint. For ease of reference I have referred to Mr D throughout this final 
decision. 
What happened
Mr D held a home insurance policy with Wakam. The policy terms explained the policy would 
cover storm damage. Mr Ds policy included accidental damage to buildings and contents. 
Accidental Damage is defined as Unexpected and unintended damage or breakage caused 
by a single and one-off event resulting from sudden and external means.
Mr D has explained that on 23 October 2022 around 4.30pm there was a storm and several 
tiles from our roof fell off, narrowly missing my car parked in the front drive. Mr D called 
company D on 31 October to report the damage and make a claim. 
On 5 November company D asked Mr D to send photos of the damage and an estimate of 
the cost of repairs. Mr D contacted a roofing company and obtained an estimate to repair the 
roof damage and broken tiles. The roofing company commented that the damage was 
consistent with storm damage. This evidence, along with photos, was sent to company D. 
Company D checked their weather reports for the date provided by Mr D for the storm 
conditions. This showed winds of 22mph recorded on the postcode on 23/10. As this didnt 
indicate storm conditions, Mr D was told his claim was declined. 
Mr D was unhappy with this outcome. Company D arranged for one of their surveyors to 
inspect the damage, and to determine the cause of this damage. 
On 21 December company R (surveyor instructed by company D) attended Mr Ds property 
to inspect the damage to Mr Ds roof. It was recorded front hip shows area where hip tiles 
displaced and potentially where they impacted with pitch tiled roof. Weather conditions in 
recent weeks have been inclement with presence of strong wind conditions. 
Company D questioned company R about their report which referred to Weather conditions 
in recent weeks. As the event Mr D was claiming for happened on 23 October, company D 
didnt think the comments about weather is recent weeks was accurate for determining the 
cause of damage from 23 October as the report was completed on 21 December. 
Company D maintained their position to decline Mr Ds claim. Mr D was unhappy with this 
decision, and so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation. 
The investigator found that Wakam had acted fairly in declining Mr Ds claim, as there wasnt 
enough evidence to say that storm conditions had occurred on or around the date the 
damage is said to have happened. 
Mr D strongly disagreed with these findings, saying that the definition of storm from the 
policy booklet has still not been provided to him, the newspapers reported stormy weather 
around the time of his claim, and he still hasnt received confirmation of whether his policy 
provides accidental damage cover. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim for storm damage 
This service has an established approach for considering storm damage. Wed likely say a 
business needs to do more if the answer to the following three questions is yes:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to any is no, its likely the business has acted fairly.
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
Mr D has explained that on 23 October 2022 around 4.30pm there was a storm and several 
tiles from our roof fell off, narrowly missing my car parked in the front drive.
Mr D says company D have failed to provide him with a copy of his policy booklet showing 
the definition of a storm. Ive checked Mr Ds policy booklet and agree that a storm is not a 
defined term in this document. Where the definition a storm is not provided in the terms of a 
policy, we would say that that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied 
by rain, hail or snow. We refer to industry recognised weather records to check details of the 
weather reported on and around the date of claim. 
Ive checked the weather records we would usually refer to for accurate and representative 
conditions of windspeeds at any given time. These records show that there were 
windspeeds of up to 26mph on the week leading up to 23 October. This type of windspeed 
wouldnt in itself indicate storm conditions. We would expect windspeeds of a much higher 
force in order to say that storm conditions were likely present. 
Ive also considered what Mr D has explained about news reports from the date of the 
incident on 23 October. Mr D has provided a link to social media reports and a local 
newspaper referring to Thunderstorm strike, and an image of stormy weather on the same date his roof was damaged. The newspaper report is date stamped 23 Oct 2022 6:48pm. Im 
satisfied this report does reflect the approximate date and time Mr D has said he noticed 
damage to his roof tiles.  
But the location of this report is more than 10 miles from Mr Ds own residence. I appreciate 
stormy weather is often difficult to pinpoint, and can affect a greater area than one specific 
location. We also wouldnt expect a local newspaper to usually identify specific roads 
impacted. Although I accept there may have been stormy weather in the surrounding area to 
where Mr D lives, the evidence I have seen, (which we would usually rely as being a fair and 
accurate representation of weather at any given time), doesnt support there being storm 
conditions on or around the date of claim. 
Ive also considered the comments of the roofer instructed by Mr D, who found that the 
damage was consistent with storm conditions. Whilst this evidence supports Mr Ds position 
on the claim, we would place greater weight on the evidence of an independent expert. In 
this case, that would be the surveyor who inspected Mr Ds property on 21 December. 
Its not disputed that the surveyors report made comments suggesting that the weather had 
been particularly bad in the weeks leading up to inspection of Mr Ds roof. The surveyors 
notes recorded Weather conditions in recent weeks have been inclement with presence of 
strong wind conditions. But I agree with company Ds position that these comments were 
made in December- several weeks after the date of claim. So it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on these observations for determining the weather in the weeks leading up to Mr Ds 
date of claim. 
Although Mr D feels strongly that the roofer he discussed his claim with shared his view 
about the weather conditions at the time of claim, the evidence from the time doesnt support 
this. The windspeeds of 26mph arent strong enough to suggest storm conditions, and this is 
the maximum windspeed recorded in the week leading up to 23 October. There isnt enough 
evidence to say that storm conditions were present on or around the date of claim. Because 
of this, I cant say that Wakam have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ds claim 
under the storm cover part of his policy. 
Claim for accidental damage to buildings
I have seen that Mr Ds policy included accidental damage to buildings. Ive therefore 
considered whether the damage to Mr Ds roof and tiles would reasonably be covered under 
this section of his policy. 
Accidental damage is defined as Unexpected and unintended damage or breakage caused 
by a single and one-off event resulting from sudden and external means. 
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly that it was bad weather which led to his roof tiles being 
damaged, and lifted off the roof. I have considered whether this incident would be something 
covered by the buildings accidental damage section of Mr Ds policy. In doing so, Im unable 
to say that the policy would cover this damage. 
We might say an insurer should consider a claim under the buildings accidental damage part 
of a policy where the damage is caused by something sudden and unexpected during bad 
weather, such as a falling object unexpectedly causing damage to part of a building. But I 
cant see that the damage to Mr Ds roof and tiles is accidental damage as defined by the 
policy terms, and happened in the way that the policy was designed to cover. When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that there was no storm when Mr 
D says the damage to his roof occurred. And I havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
that the damage was covered under the external damage section of his policy.
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr D. But insurance policies do 
not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those circumstances, where the damage isnt 
covered by the policy. Because of this, I wont be asking Wakam to do anything in settlement 
of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman