DRN-3643734
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Wakam dealt with a claim he made under his 
commercial insurance policy to have his windscreen replaced.
All reference to the underwriter Wakam in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr A reported damage to his windscreen on 10 August 2020. Wakam arranged for Mr As 
windscreen to be replaced by an approved agent. Further damage was caused to Mr As car 
in the process of replacing the windscreen. The further damage was repaired on 14 August 
2020. 
The agent agreed to pay for half of the costs to replace the damaged parts when it replaced 
the windscreen. It said the damage was outside of its control. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Wakam to pay 
100% of the repair costs for the damage its agent caused and to consider his loss of 
earnings for the time it took to carry out the additional repair. 
Our Investigator asked Wakam to provide its file and response. But despite several requests, 
Wakam hasnt responded to this service. So based on the information provided by Mr A, the 
Investigator recommended his complaint should be upheld. He thought Wakam should pay 
all of the costs for the damage caused by the agent and to consider Mr As claim for loss of 
earnings. 
Wakam hasnt replied. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Wakam hasnt provided any information to this service to investigate the complaint, we 
have relied on the information provided by Mr A. This includes the policy wording, 
documents and the final response letter from a representative of the broker on behalf of 
Wakam. 
In the final response dated 20 October 2020, it says the agent agreed to pay 50% of the 
repair costs for the damage it told Wakam was unavoidable in order to replace the 
windscreen. 
Mr A says the inconvenience of having the further damage repaired meant he lost earnings 
as a taxi driver. 
In this case - based on what Ive seen - I think a fair outcome is for Wakam to meet the costs 
in full of the repairs for associated damage caused by the windscreen agent - which they 
accept they caused. And I think Wakam should consider Mr As claim for loss of earnings as 
this seems to be have been caused by Wakams agent causing additional damage to Mr As 
car. Mr A provided some evidence of similar earnings during the period and the Investigator 
has forwarded these to Wakam. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Wakam to do the following:
Reimburse Mr A for the costs in full of the associated damage caused by the 
windscreen agent. 
Pay interest on the balance at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
Mr A paid to the date it reimburses him. 
Consider Mr As claim for loss of earnings for the period lost while he arranged 
for the associated damage to be repaired. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman