DRN-1233117
The complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) treated him 
unfairly when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in a road traffic incident with another driver in November 2018. He said 
he overtook the other driver who was in front of him on a single lane road. He said the other 
driver moved to avoid cars parked in a bay on the left-hand side of the road and collided with 
the rear passenger side of his car. 
Mr M said at no point did his vehicle cross the lane marking in the centre of the road when 
he overtook the other driver. And he said that the road was wide enough for him to overtake 
the other driver safely. 
LV advised Mr M that, based on his version of events, it thought he was likely to be held at 
least partially at fault for the incident. 
LV contacted the other drivers insurer to try to dispute liability. But the other drivers insurer 
responded to counter-dispute liability, and it said Mr M was at fault. LV assessed the liability 
disputed and agreed to settle the other drivers claim  holding Mr M fully at fault for the 
accident. 
Mr M complained about this decision. He said he didnt think LV had settled the claim in his 
best interest. But LV disagreed. It maintained its decision to settle the other drivers claim in 
full on a without prejudice basis  meaning Mr M could continue to pursue the other driver 
should he decide to do so himself. Mr M remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into everything but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed with her findings and remained of the view that LV didnt resolve the claim in his 
best interest. He therefore thinks LV should refund his excess and record the claim as non-
fault, so he can retain his no claims discount. So the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts if the matter gets to that stage. But 
we can look at whether an insurer has properly investigated a claim. And we can see if it 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr Ms policy has a term which is common in most insurance policies Ive seen, which says 
Were entitled to have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim. This means that, while LV might make a decision that Mr M disagrees with, the policy allows 
it to decide whether it should defend or settle a claim. But LV must exercise this right in a fair 
and reasonable way. 
Ive taken all of Mr Ms comments into account. But based on the above, I dont think LV has 
acted unfairly here by deciding to settle the other drivers claim in full. This is because LV 
has said the other driver was continuing down the road when Mr M attempted to overtake, 
and he was responsible for ensuring there was enough time and it was safe to pass. 
Mr M told LV that his expectations of the other driver when overtaking was that he thought 
they were going to pull into the kerb or make a left turn. But LV decided that there wasn't 
enough evidence to show that the other driver had indicated this. Having looked at the 
information available to me, I understand theres no dispute that other driver didn't indicate 
they were turning left.
LV then said the other driver had told their insurer they had moved to avoid parked cars on 
the left-hand side of the road. Mr M argued that the other driver should have checked their 
mirrors prior to carrying out the move, because the other driver would have then seen Mr M 
overtaking and the accident could have been prevented. LV considered this but remained 
that it should accept full liability on behalf of Mr M because he was responsible for making 
sure the manoeuvre was completed safely. And, as above, Im satisfied LV can make this 
decision, and I think it has done so fairly in this case based on the information available. 
As I said above, its not my role to decide who was at fault for the accident, but look at 
whether LV has handled the claim fairly and reasonably. Based on the information available 
to me, I am satisfied LV applied the above term of the policy fairly and reasonably. And I 
havent seen anything to show that it didnt conclude a proper investigation into the accident. 
I note Mr M has said that he doesnt think LV has acted in his best interests. But it was 
entitled to decide  based on costs of defending the claim, and the prospects of success  
the likelihood of it succeeding in defending the claim should it go to court. 
LV told Mr M it settled his claim with the other partys insurer on a without prejudice basis. 
Our investigator queried this with LV, and it confirmed that the claim has been settled without 
prejudice which it said the other drivers insurer was fully informed of. So Mr M can pursue 
the liability dispute on his own accord should he wish to do so.   
In summary, I dont think LV has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its investigation into the 
claim, or Mr Ms concerns. Im satisfied that its considered the evidence from both him and 
the other driver and took a decision to settle the claim based on the information available to 
it. I can also see it tried to manage his expectations from the outset and it did attempt to 
defend the claim. However, it decided to settle the claim following the other drivers insurer 
countering its own liability dispute, which is something the policy entitled it to do. And so, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to require LV to refund the excess or change how the claim 
has been recorded. 
I appreciate there was some delay between Mr M raising concerns and LV responding to 
him. But overall I dont think that LV has acted unfairly in settling the other drivers claim in 
full, and I dont think the delays have impacted on the outcome of the claim. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything else here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman