DRN-2039743
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") delayed dealing with a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy, provided incorrect and confusing information, and then refused 
to cover his legal costs.
What happened
Mr T contacted UKI to make a claim on his policy for legal costs relating to an issue with his 
employer. He explained that he had been told to leave his place of work and the employer 
then put forward a settlement agreement, to agree terms for his employment to be brought to 
an end. He had instructed solicitors to advise him on the terms of settlement but wanted to 
seek cover under his policy.
UKI advised that the policy did provide cover for this type of claim, but he wouldnt be able to 
use his own solicitors unless it was necessary to issue proceedings  until then, he could 
use UKIs panel solicitors. Mr T asked for this to be confirmed in writing and UKI sent a letter 
to him a couple of days later.
In a further call a few days after that, UKI said it could appoint a panel firm to assist with the 
mediation process. But they would only review the terms of settlement and wouldnt be able 
to advise on the substance of the offer.
Mr T agreed a few days later to use the panel solicitors. UKI asked him to return a signed 
form of authority confirming his agreement in writing before submitting his claim to the 
solicitors. Mr T returned the signed form and UKI then instructed the panel solicitors.
Mr T had a deadline to agree to the settlement agreement. The solicitors said they wouldnt 
have time to review everything, assess his claim and advise on whether he had prospects of 
success within the time given. But they said they could advise him on the what the terms of 
the settlement agreement meant. UKI explained this to Mr T.
The panel solicitors then told UKI that they had reviewed the documents and at that point it 
was just a settlement agreement - Mr T hadnt been dismissed, the employer hadnt started 
a redundancy consultation and there was no claim that he could take to an employment 
tribunal. On that basis, UKI said there was no cover for the claim.
Mr T was unhappy and complained. He said UKIs processes were slow and confusing, and 
he had been given contradictory information about whether his claim would be covered. He 
said if there was no cover, this should have been explained right at the outset.
UKI accepted there had been some confusion about the claim and the service hadnt been 
as good as it should have been. It offered compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr T  initially £100, but subsequently increased to £150.
When Mr T brought his complaint to this service, our investigator said the claim should have 
been covered, and asked UKI to reimburse the legal costs Mr T had incurred. UKI didnt 
accept that the claim should be covered and requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt think the complaint should be upheld, 
for the following reasons:
The policy terms set out what cover is available for employment disputes -
We will pay costs for any dispute you have with your current or former employers at an 
Employment Tribunal.
We will only pay costs relating to settlement agreements if you are also in a position to make 
an Employment Tribunal claim.
The terms also say cover will only be provided if the claim has reasonable prospects of 
success  in other words, Mr T was only entitled to cover if it was more likely than not that he 
would win his case against his employer. This is common for legal expenses policies  
insurers will generally only pay costs where there is a reasonable chance of the claim being 
successful. Insurers will need to get legal advice on whether a legal claim is likely to be 
successful in a court or tribunal, and are entitled to rely on that advice unless its obviously 
wrong.
I think the terms are clear about what cover is available. Mr T was only entitled to cover if he 
had a dispute with his employer, which he could pursue through a tribunal claim, and where 
it was more likely than not he would win that claim. If he didnt meet these requirements, 
then he wasnt entitled to cover. I dont think this is unusual  these policies are generally 
intended to provide cover for pursuing disputes, not simply providing advice. And as with any 
insurance claim, in the first instance its for the policyholder to show there is an insured 
event.
Where someone is simply agreeing the terms of a settlement with their employer, cover 
wouldnt be provided. And the legal advice from the panel solicitors was that this is the 
position Mr T was in. On that basis, it doesnt seem to me that he had a claim which would 
be covered under the policy terms.
UKI initially told Mr T that, from the information provided, his claim was one that could be 
covered. I appreciate that it would be very upsetting to be told later on that wasnt the case. 
But in every claim, cover wont be confirmed until the insurer has legal advice from solicitors 
who have reviewed the case and confirmed there are reasonable prospects of success.
Once the solicitors had reviewed the papers, the advice was that Mr T didnt (at that point) 
have a claim he could pursue and which was likely to succeed.
Mr T is unhappy that he had to instruct his own solicitors and would like to be reimbursed for 
those costs. If hed had to pay costs that should have been covered under the policy then I 
agree these should be repaid. But I dont think thats the case here. He would have wanted 
advice on his position in any event, and its reasonable to expect him to protect his position, 
particularly when there was a lot at stake for him. I dont think he acted differently or incurred 
costs he wouldnt otherwise have incurred, as a result of UKIs actions  he had already 
consulted solicitors before making a claim and, if hed know straight away that he wasnt 
covered, its likely he would have continued instructing those solicitors in any event.
UKI has accepted there were some issues with the service provided. And I can see how 
some of the information provided might have been confusing. But overall, having looked at 
the timeline of events I dont think there were lengthy delays by UKI  matters were generally 
dealt with within a few days. I think the compensation offered was reasonable.I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr T but for the reasons given my judgment is 
that the decision not to provide cover was fair and in line with the policy terms. I don't think it 
would be fair in these circumstances to require UKI to repay the legal costs Mr T incurred.
Replies to the provisional decision
UKI has not provided any further comments in response to the provisional decision. 
Mr T disagrees with the provisional decision and has provided a number of comments. Ive 
summarised some of the key points as follows:
When he first contacted UKI, he wasnt making a claim but simply asking for 
clarification of the policy terms, and UKI only confirmed the position 10 days later, 
after he chased for a reply.
The solicitors then said it would be 10 days before they could review the matter. And 
there were delays due to the Easter break. The timescale was weeks, not days. 
Overall It took two months to deal with the assessment. In the meantime he was 
deciding his strategy for pursing the claim on the basis he was entitled to cover
Its not true the solicitors offered to review the settlement  they said they couldnt do 
that until they had done a prospects assessment.
The provisional decision says they did assess the documents, so hes not sure if they 
did complete the prospects assessment.
He hasnt asked to be reimbursed his legal costs  only the costs that should have 
been covered under the policy terms, namely the costs of reviewing and finalising the 
settlement. The provisional decision doesnt refer to the section in the policy terms 
about costs regarding a settlement agreement, which is what he was seeking
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised Mr Ts comments above, I have considered everything he 
has said carefully. Having done so, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Even if Mr Ts initial contact involved asking about the policy terms, he did tell UKI he wanted 
to make a claim on the policy, and it was set up as a claim. There were some phone calls 
and a short delay before a letter was sent to him. The solicitors explained they would need 
some time to review things. I dont think thats unusual; it would generally take a week or two 
for solicitors to assess a claim. 
Mr T was told if he accepted the settlement, the solicitors could advise him on the terms of 
that settlement. Otherwise they would need to do a full assessment of the case, including 
whether it had prospects of success. Again, I think that was reasonable. And as I said in the 
provisional decision, the key point is that once the solicitors had looked through the papers, 
the advice was that Mr T didnt have a claim he could pursue at that point. Its not for me to 
review the solicitors actions or the advice they gave. Im only considering how UKI dealt with 
the insurance claim, in light of the legal advice available to it. And in view of the solicitors 
comments, the way it dealt with the claim was fair.
Mr T says hes not asking to be reimbursed all his legal costs, only the costs that should 
have been covered under the policy terms. I set out the relevant policy terms in the 
provisional decision and explained why, on the basis of those terms, hes not entitled to 
costs. The policy terms say hes entitled to cover for a dispute with his employer at an employment tribunal, and UKI will only pay costs relating to settlement agreements if hes 
also in a position to make a tribunal claim. The legal advice was that he wasnt in that 
position. On that basis, he wasnt entitled to his costs.
Finally, Mr T says it took two months to deal with the assessment. His first contact was on 2 
April. On 12 April Mr T provided his written authority to refer the claim to panel solicitors. UKI 
wrote to him on 16 April to advise that it was referring the claim to the panel solicitors, who 
would need 10 working days to review it. On 18 April he was told he could either accept the 
proposed settlement and the solicitors would advise him on the terms of the offer, or he 
could wait for them to review all the paperwork. Mr T wasnt happy with this. And I note that 
he had complained and received a final response from UKI by 10 May. Although there were 
some issues at the beginning, the timescales involved were relatively short and the 
compensation UKI has already paid is enough to reflect any delays in that period. So I wont 
be asking UKI to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman