DRN-1709032
 
The complaint
This complaints about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application Mr and Mrs H made to 
Barclays Bank Plc. Barclays issued a mortgage offer in January 2019, but later withdrew it.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs H applied for a BTL mortgage with Barclays. The property 
they wanted to buy was a multi-unit property; that is, they were buying a property that had 
been converted into three flats, rather than buying the flats individually.
Barclays arranged for a surveyor to visit the property, and they issued their valuation report 
on 20 December 2018. Following this Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 11 January 2019.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor wrote to Barclays about some legal matters relating 
to the subject property, a linked property and a lease. I wont go into any details here about 
the issues to lessen the risk of identifying the property - and therefore Mr and Mrs H - when 
this decision is published, but Ive read and understood everything. Henceforth I will simply 
refer to this as the lease issue.
Barclays and the solicitor exchanged letters until on 29 April 2019 Barclays confirmed it 
couldnt proceed on the basis put forward which led to Mr and Mrs H raising a complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree 
and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Before I go any further, I need to clear up a point that has been raised. Our investigator was 
initially under the mistaken belief that Barclays hadnt issued a mortgage offer and that led to 
Mr and Mrs H responding to his assessment saying I find it even more challenging to 
believe a word they say following them informing you that they never issued us with an 
official Mortgage offer. It took me to send out [sic] copy to you to evidence this in-fact was 
not true. What else are they not telling you? 
But Barclays didnt withhold any information from us; in the timeline it originally submitted to 
this service it told us it issued a mortgage offer on 11 January 2019. I can only apologise to 
both sides for the mistake that may have led to matters going slightly off-track.
Mr and Mrs H are understandably unhappy and frustrated at the offer being withdrawn. Its 
unusual but allowed in certain circumstances. Barclays says new information came to light 
that it was unaware of before the offer was produced, and had it been aware of that 
information then the application would have been declined from the outset. Mr and Mrs H 
say it wasnt new information and as Barclays had sent a surveyor out to value the property.
Barclays is the mortgage lender and it relies on other professionals to do their parts in the 
process; this includes the mortgage broker giving the correct information, the surveyor 
carrying out the valuation correctly, and the solicitor carrying out the conveyancing with due 
diligence and letting the lender know if there is anything unusual that comes up in its checks.
The mortgage application was submitted to Barclays by a mortgage broker that was acting 
for Mr and Mrs H, and the lease issue wasnt disclosed in the application. The surveyor 
didnt disclose the lease issue in the valuation report. Having considered everything, Im 
satisfied Barclays didnt know about the lease issue until it was notified by Mr and Mrs Hs 
solicitor in March (so after the mortgage offer had been produced).
Barclays doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. 
Barclays is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). The valuation was 
carried out by an independent third-party surveying firm so all I can consider against 
Barclays is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and having 
considered everything Im satisfied it did. Weve no power to compel that business to get 
involved in this complaint, nor can we consider its acts or omissions in this complaint against 
Barclays. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they feel there is blame with someone and its not them; in effect 
theyve asked who is at fault. Thats not my place to say here as this is simply a decision 
about Barclays, not the other parties involved (that is, the broker, the surveyor and the 
solicitor). And sometimes these things are no-ones fault; some applications are just 
unsuccessful despite no-one doing anything wrong. All I can say is that Im satisfied Barclays 
didnt make a mistake when it initially issued the mortgage offer or when it later told 
Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor that it wasnt willing to proceed with the mortgage application on the 
basis put forward relating to the lease issue. On that basis theres simply no grounds for me 
to uphold this complaint against Barclays.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman