DRN-4266016
The complaint
R complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC closed its business account. R also complains 
about overdraft fees charged. 
What happened
R held a business current account and associated overdraft with Lloyds. In February 2023 
Lloyds says it reviewed its relationship with R and took the decision to close the business 
account. Lloyds says the decision was in line with its business current account terms and 
conditions that allow it to close an account for any reason by giving 60 days notice. Lloyds 
also says overdrafts are repayable on demand. 
On 21 February 2023 Lloyds sent R a notice to close letter that said the business account 
would be withdrawn in 60 days. Rs director, Mr D, has confirmed that the letter was not 
received so he was unaware of Lloyds decision. 
R also holds a lending facility with Lloyds and on 3 May 2023 a Loan Servicing Account 
(LSA) was opened on its behalf to receive loan payments. Lloyds says it sent R a letter to 
confirm it had opened the LSA for it to use for repayments going forward. 
On 17 May 2023 the business account was terminated and overdraft facility withdrawn by 
Lloyds. The following day, Mr D contacted Lloyds and it came to light R hadnt received its 
letters providing details of the plan to close its business account. Mr D complained and 
asked Lloyds to give a reason for its decision.
Lloyds issued a final response on 18 May 2023 but didnt agree it had made a mistake. 
Lloyds advised it had taken the decision following an account review. And Lloyds confirmed 
it had provided the relevant notice period following its closure letter dated 21 February 2023. 
Lloyds added that it had written to R about the new LSA when it had been opened at the 
beginning of May 2023. 
Mr D referred Rs complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In the 
complaint submission, Mr D explained he was also unhappy with the overdraft fees R had 
been charged. Our investigator reviewed Rs case but wasnt persuaded Lloyds had acted 
unfairly by closing Rs business account. And the investigator didnt find grounds to ask 
Lloyds to refund overdraft fees incurred by R. On Rs behalf, Mr D asked to appeal and said 
Lloyds had closed its account without a valid reason. Mr D added that Lloyds staff had told 
some of Rs clients that its business account was closed due to fraud. Our investigator went 
back to Lloyds which confirmed that Mr D hadnt notified it of his complaint about the release 
of information to Rs clients so it hadnt had the opportunity to investigate. As Mr D asked to 
appeal Rs complaint its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
In response to the investigator, Mr D said that Lloyds had still failed to provide a valid reason 
for closing Rs business account. But the account terms say Lloyds is free to close an 
account as long as it provides the relevant notice period. And whilst I understand Mr D feels 
Lloyds should provide a more comprehensive answer, its confirmed a review of Rs account 
was completed which led to its decision being taken. Im satisfied Lloyds has reasonably 
explained why it closed Rs business account. 
Before closing Rs account, Lloyds needed to provide sufficient notice. Lloyds has confirmed 
it wrote to R on 21 February 2023 with 60 days notice of its intention to close its business 
account and advising alternative banking arrangements were required. As R maintained loan 
payments from its business account, Lloyds later took the step of setting up a LSA for future 
payments to be taken and sent a letter to confirm. Mr D has explained that neither letter was 
received so it was a shock to find the business account stopped working on 17 May 2023. 
And I can see Mr D made contact with Lloyds the following day to discuss the business 
account. Whilst I understand Mr D has explained the letters Lloyds sent werent received, 
Ive reviewed the available information. Im satisfied both the account closure and new LSA 
letters were issued by Lloyds as claimed. And I can see Lloyds holds the same address 
information as R has provided to us. On balance, Im satisfied the letters were sent to R as 
Lloyds says and that it followed the correct steps when arranging to close its business 
account. 
As Lloyds acted in line with its account terms and conditions when closing Rs account, Im 
unable to agree its acted unfairly or made any mistakes. 
Mr D has explained hes unhappy with the overdraft fees R paid. But Ive looked at the 
statement evidence available for R and havent seen any sign that it was overcharged for its 
overdraft use or that fees have been incorrectly applied. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but as I 
havent seen any evidence to show Rs been overcharged, Im not able to award a refund of 
overdraft fees. 
In response to the investigator Mr D advised that Lloyds had told clients that Rs business 
account had been closed due to an element of fraud. But Lloyds has explained no complaint 
of this nature has previously been received so it hasnt had the opportunity to investigate. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider a complaint until a business has had a 
chance to review it. And whilst I understand Mr D wants us to look at his concerns about the 
way Rs business account was closed, these issues relate to post closure problems. Im 
satisfied thats a separate issue. Mr D has the right to refer Rs complaint on this point to 
Lloyds to investigate as a new case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but as Im satisfied Lloyds followed the right process when 
closing Rs business account and havent seen any evidence that shows the overdraft fees 
were incorrectly applied Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman