DRN-3361930
The complaint
For many years Mr H and Mrs H have held a packaged bank account, called a Platinum 
account, with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
Lloyds usually charges its customers a monthly fee for the Platinum account and provides 
several potential benefits in return. Mr H and Mrs H believe that around nine years ago 
Lloyds told them they would be exempt from the monthly fee, but in 2021 Lloyds started to 
apply it to their account.
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds was wrong to start charging them the monthly 
fee. They want it to honour the commitment they believe it made and to provide them with a 
Platinum account free of charge. 
What happened
During 2012, Mr H and Mrs H complained to Lloyds that it had mis-sold them the Platinum 
account. Lloyds accepted this and upheld their complaint. In December 2012, it paid them 
some compensation and wrote them a letter (letter 1) which said it had arranged for a 
waiver to be applied to (their) account and no more fees (would) be charged.
Mr H and Mrs H have said that Lloyds statement that it would not charge them any more 
fees came about after we had issued a decision on their mis-selling complaint. They have 
questioned how Lloyds can now be doing something they think we told it not to do.
I understand that between December 2012 and at least the first half of 2021 Lloyds didnt 
charge Mr H and Mrs H for the Platinum account (or refunded any fees it did raise), but in 
June 2021 it wrote to them (letter 2) saying that from September 2021 onwards they would 
have to pay the monthly fee.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint and thought 
that Lloyds had acted reasonably. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should stop 
charging Mr H and Mrs H monthly fees for their Platinum account. 
Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr H and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mr H and Mrs H and Lloyds have told us or sent 
us about the case and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Firstly, I would like to say that we have not been able to trace any record of our involvement 
in the mis-selling complaint from 2012. I cannot say for certain that we didnt take part, but if 
we did, we probably acted as a mediator rather than as a final decision maker. There are a 
number of reasons why I doubt we were involved. For example, in letter 1, Lloyds told Mr H 
and Mrs H that if they were still unhappy they had the right to refer their complaint to us, but 
it would have been highly unusual for Lloyds to give such referral rights if we had issued a 
final decision; and if we uphold a mis-selling complaint about a packaged bank account we 
normally tell the bank to refund the monthly fees and add interest, but we dont define what 
should happen from then on, it would have been highly unusual indeed for us to tell Lloyds 
that it couldnt charge future fees. So, I doubt we told Lloyds that it could never apply the 
monthly fees to Mr H and Mrs Hs Platinum account. 
Moving on from the question of our own possible involvement in Mr H and Mrs Hs original 
mis-selling complaint, the point at dispute in their current case is very precise. They believe 
that the clause I quoted from letter 1 means they should never have to pay a monthly fee for 
their Platinum account and Lloyds disagrees; it thinks it is entitled to charge them the same 
monthly fee that it applies to other customers with Platinum accounts. 
It seems to me that there are three factors for me to consider here: the context of letter 1, 
Lloyds approach to Mr H and Mrs Hs monthly fees between 2012 and 2021, and the 
context of letter 2. 
Alongside letter 1, I have seen other correspondence from 2012 about Mr H and Mrs Hs 
original complaint and there seems to have been several discussions between them and 
Lloyds about the monthly fees. It looks like letter 1 was the final settlement of a quite 
protracted disagreement. Obviously, letter 1 was a direct response to Mr H and Mrs Hs 
specific complaint about mis-selling and was personal in that it was only relevant to Mr H 
and Mrs H, not other Lloyds customers.
Between 2012 and 2021, Lloyds seems to have allowed all its customers with Platinum 
accounts to avoid monthly fees if they complied with certain banking conditions. It called this 
arrangement a fee-waiver scheme. Lloyds may have varied the precise rules and 
availability for the scheme over the years, but letter 2 says that up to that time customers 
had been able to avoid the monthly fee by keeping a minimum of £4,000 in the account. I 
find it very likely that the fee-waiver scheme worked in a similar fashion throughout the 
period Mr H and Mrs H didnt pay the monthly fee. 
Im not sure if Lloyds didnt charge the monthly fee to Mr H and Mrs H between December 
2012 and June 2021 because they met the general conditions for the fee-waiver scheme, 
because of a personal arrangement stemming from letter 1, or because of a combination of 
both at different times. However, there is no dispute that Lloyds treated them fairly with 
respect to monthly fees during this period. 
In early 2021, Lloyds decided to remove the fee-waiver scheme from its Platinum account 
customers. It was allowed to make this change provided it told its customers what it was 
planning and gave them reasonable choices. Letter 2 was entitled The fee-waiver on your 
Platinum account will soon end. It told Mr H and Mrs H that Lloyds would remove the 
scheme in September 2021, told them what the monthly fee would be and invited them to 
review whether the Platinum account would still be right for them. It said they could change 
to an account without a monthly fee, albeit without the Platinum accounts benefits, before 
the end of the fee-waiver scheme if they so wished.Letter 2 was not personal to Mr H and Mrs H, in that Lloyds sent similar letters to many of its 
Platinum account customers. In general, it seems to me that letter 2 told customers what 
Lloyds was planning and gave them reasonable choices. But, in Mr H and Mrs Hs case 
there is a potential conflict between letter 1s statement that no more fees will be charged 
and letter 2s statement that they would have to start paying.
I mentioned earlier that we would not normally tell a bank it could never apply monthly fees 
to a packaged account. And nor would I expect Lloyds to make such an indefinite 
commitment itself in response to a specific and individual complaint, as such a commitment 
would remove its commercial freedom. So, I think Lloyds was within its rights when it started 
to charge Mr H and Mrs H the monthly fee.
However, it does seem to me that Lloyds misled Mr H and Mrs H with letter 1. Lloyds didnt 
set any time limits or conditions on the no fee clause or explain if the normal terms of the 
fee-waiver scheme would apply to Mr H and Mrs H. However, Mr H and Mrs H went on to 
receive the benefits of the Platinum account free of charge for around nine years and I dont 
think they have suffered significant harm. Lloyds has acknowledged the mistake it made with 
letter 1 and in July 2021 it paid Mr H and Mrs H compensation equivalent to more than 
double the amount of the monthly fee at the time. I think this was reasonable compensation 
for the mistake it made.
So, in summary, I accept that Lloyds may well have misled Mr H and Mrs H in 2012, but I 
think it has since acted fairly, and has put right the mistake it made. And I think Lloyds is now 
entitled to charge Mr H and Mrs H the monthly fee for the Platinum account. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint about 
Lloyds Bank PLC. I am not going tell it to provide them with a fee-free Platinum account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman