DRN-4080246
The complaint
Mrs H complains she was misadvised to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution pension policy (FSAVC) by Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential). She wants to be put back in the position she should have been in.
Mrs H is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but for ease 
I will just refer to Mrs H except where necessary in this decision.
 
What happened
Mrs H was advised to take out a FSAVC (the plan) in 1998 to provide additional pension 
benefits. She says this was likely to have had higher charges than the in-house AVC 
scheme that was offered by her employer at the time. So, she may have suffered losses as a 
consequence. Through her CMC she raised a complaint with Prudential raising several 
points about the suitability of the advice shed been given saying she would have joined the 
in-house AVC if shed been informed about it properly.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. It said its adviser couldnt provide advice about the 
in-house AVC as he could only advise on its own products. It said the advice had complied 
with regulatory requirements at the time. In particular that shed been made aware of the 
alternative option of using her employers in house AVC. It said the contributions had been 
affordable to Mrs H and the investment fund recommended was appropriate for her attitude 
to risk.
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said he thought records from the time showed that the advice was suitable 
because there had been a discussion about the in-house AVC alternative as required by the 
financial service regulations. He said Mrs H had signed a declaration on the fact find 
document completed confirming that the information shed provided was correct. In the notes 
section, the adviser had written that the in-house AVC had been discussed. And this was 
confirmed in the recommendation letter sent to her the next day which said, The relative 
merits of FSAVCs and AVCs were covered. And that Mrs H had been given and had 
explained to her a leaflet called AVC-some important features, which confirmed that 
charges might be lower with an in-house AVC.
Our investigator said this evidence showed alternatives had been discussed. And Mrs H 
ought to have been aware that the charges of the in-house AVC might be lower. But shed 
decided to proceed with the FSAVC anyway due to other features like additional flexibility. 
And she hadnt queried anything when the subsequent recommendation letter said AVCs 
and FSAVC had been discussed. He said that the recommended investment, the with-profits 
fund was appropriate to the level of risk identified for her. And that the premium paid was 
affordable for her. Because he thought regulatory guidelines had been followed, he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs H disagreed. She said the FSAVC offered no more flexibility than the in-house AVC and 
that charges were the overriding factor in her being able to make an informed choice and 
she hadnt been given enough information. She said there was no evidence that Prudential 
had discussed that charges were likely to be lower for the in-house AVC as this wasnt 
referred to in the recommendation letter and the leaflet AVC-some important features was 
inadequate.
As Mrs H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Mrs H made several complaint points, but I think most of these arent relevant as Prudential 
could only advise on its own products. So, it wasnt required to directly compare its FSAVC 
to the in-house alternative. I think the investment fund recommended was suitable at the 
time. As with-profits was widely regarded as a relatively low risk investment. And one 
appropriate to Mrs Hs very cautious attitude to risk identified by Prudential and confirmed 
in the recommendation report. 
I think the crux of the complaint is whether Prudential complied with the then regulatory 
requirements confirmed in Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) issued in 1996. Whilst a tied 
adviser like Prudential couldnt give Mrs H advice about the in-house AVC or added years 
options, it was expected to:
draw the customers attention to the in-house alternative,
discuss the generic differences between and in-house AVC and a FSAVC,
direct the customer to their employer or occupational pension scheme for more 
information on the in-house option.
RU20 also said that charges would be generally lower on in-house AVCs and that of;
all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest impact 
on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client. 
 
Mrs H argues the requirements of RU20 werent met. Prudential that they were. 
The events Mrs H complains about took place nearly 25 years ago, so it isnt certain what 
was said in the meetings that took place between her and the adviser. But there are some 
written records which summarise the situation at the time. These are, the fact find document, 
which was signed by Mrs H. And the recommendation report sent after she completed the 
application form for the FSAVC. 
Mrs H doesnt appear to have disputed she received the report or signed the fact find 
document. So, I think these documents are important evidence as to what is likely to have 
happened at the time. 
The fact find which Mrs H signed contains the handwritten note:
I have discussed with (Mrs H) AVC as well as FSAVC she has decided she would 
rather have a FSAVC to give her more flexibility if her plans change in the future.
In house AVC facility is with Equitable Life.  .Client believes that FSAVC will better suit her retirement planning needs and 
is prepared to accept possible higher charges 
Its possible that this note was added after Mrs H signed the document, but there is no 
evidence of that. And I think that the subsequent recommendation letter confirms that 
FSAVC and AVCs were discussed. There was no requirement that the adviser considered 
the in-house option with Equitable Life in detail or compare it to the FSAVC. But I think 
identifying the provider of the in-house AVC further suggests that alternatives were 
discussed.
The report itself does appear to be quite standardised. And, as Mrs H has said, it doesnt 
specifically refer to a discussion about in-house options or charges. What it does say the 
leaflet AVCs some important features has been provided and the contents have been 
explained.  This leaflet gives an overview of AVCs and FSAVCs. It does confirm that 
charges for in-house AVCs may be lower and that more information about them can be 
obtained from the employer or pensions scheme itself. A section about Costs states:
The cost of running your AVC or FSAVC is important as it will affect your final 
benefits.
Later in the section it says;
In many cases the employer bears some, or all of the administration costs whereas 
in the case of an FSAVC these costs are borne by the customer.
Having referred to the leaflet, the recommendation report then continues:
The benefits of additional savings for retirement have been explained to you. The 
relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs were covered.
If the content of the leaflet was explained and the relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs 
were covered as stated in the report I think its reasonable to say that there had been a 
discussion about the generic differences including charges and that Mrs H had been made 
aware of the in-house alternative. 
And I think its more likely than not that this leaflet was discussed. Because the letter 
enclosing the report requested that Mrs H retain both and said:
Please get in touch if there is something which needs to be clarified, or if further 
information is needed, or you do not agree with the content of the report.
I think if Mrs H hadnt been given the leaflet or it hadnt been explained and AVCs and 
FSAVCs discussed in the earlier meeting, then she would have queried this at the time. Or 
indeed when she met with the adviser again soon after in respect of her mortgage 
arrangements, but there is no evidence she did so. 
Taking everything together I think it is more likely than not the leaflet was provided and 
discussed with Mrs H. I think it is clear from the leaflet that costs could affect benefits and 
that costs might be higher with the FSAVC. The leaflet confirms more information is 
available about in-house options from either the employer or the pension scheme itself. So, I 
think explaining or covering this did meet the requirements to discuss of RU20. And whilst 
the application appears to have been completed on the day of the fact find meeting, Mrs H 
could have chosen to obtain further details about the in-house options before she decided to 
proceed with the Prudential FSAVC.So, I dont think Prudential has treated Mrs H unfairly and the advice it gave was in line with 
regulatory requirements at the time. And I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman