DRN-3061009
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) closed his credit card account 
without giving a reason. Hes also concerned that interest continues to be applied to the 
outstanding balance even though the account is now closed.
What happened
Mr S was told by Barclaycard in March 2021 that they would be closing his credit card 
account. They confirmed the closure would take place in a few months and the account 
eventually closed in May 2021.
Unhappy with the account closure, Mr S complained to Barclaycard who then provided their 
final response. Barclaycard explained to Mr S that they understood why he would be 
unhappy with their decision. However, they made the choice to close the account in line with 
their internal review process and so werent willing to reopen it. 
Mr S remained unhappy with the situation and raised a complaint with our service. He 
explained that he needs to have a working credit card and he doesnt know why Barclaycard 
have closed his account as he hasnt done anything wrong. In addition to this, Mr S was 
upset to discover Barclaycard were continuing to apply interest to the balance that was owed 
on the account. To resolve the complaint, Mr S wants his account to be reopened and to 
also be compensated for the impact this has had on him.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Barclaycard hadnt acted unfairly in 
closing the account. They referred to the accounts terms and conditions which stated 
Barclaycard were entitled to close the account if they gave two months notice beforehand. 
And having reviewed the time between Mr S being told and the account being closed  he 
was satisfied the terms and conditions were applied fairly on this occasion. Our investigator 
was also satisfied that the same terms and conditions allowed Barclaycard to continue 
applying interest to the outstanding balance and so couldnt agree the interest was being 
applied unfairly either.  
Mr S disagreed with our investigators findings and requested an ombudsmans decision. He 
explained hes been a loyal customer of Barclaycard and repeated his stance that hes done 
nothing wrong. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear how distressed Mr S has been by the decision to close his account  
and some of the difficulties hes faced since he was no longer able to use it. And I can 
completely understand the confusion he mustve felt when he was told what was going to 
happen  yet not given any specific reasons why.
However, I would agree with our investigator that Barclaycard havent acted unfairly by 
closing Mr Ss account. And Ill explain why below.
As our investigator set out, Barclaycard provided a copy of their terms and conditions which 
applied to Mr Ss account. These terms include a section which addresses closing your 
account. Ive reviewed these terms and its made clear that Barclaycard have the right to 
close Mr Ss account  if they provide at least two months written notice. 
Having reviewed the timeframe between Mr S being told his account was going to close to 
when this happened, Im satisfied Mr S was provided with at least two months notice on this 
occasion. As a result, Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the account have been 
applied correctly for the account closure. And whilst I can understand Mr Ss frustration for 
not being told why the account was being closed  Barclaycard doesnt have to give him a 
reason. Therefore, I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further on this point.
Ive also considered Mr Ss concern that the balance he owes to Barclaycard continues to 
have interest applied to it. Ive noted another section from the closing your account section 
which confirms the terms of the agreement will continue until everything owed has been 
paid. This includes amounts (such as interest) which are added to the account after the 
closure date. And so, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard have acted unfairly by continuing 
to apply interest to Mr Ss outstanding balance. So I wont be asking Barclaycard to do 
anything further on this point either and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading 
as Barclaycard).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman