DRN-4392964
The complaint
Mr S complains that MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as Mann Island (Mann Island) 
irresponsibly gave him finance for a car which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In late 2021 Mr S acquired a used car with a hire purchase agreement from Mann Island. 
The agreement required him to make 48 monthly payments of £1,074, with an optional final 
payment of £21,400 to purchase the car. The sale price of the car was £59,999, which 
combined with the cost of the finance gave a total of £72,953 to pay.
Mr S made four of the monthly payments, from January to April 2022. After missing the 
remaining payments, he handed the car back in August 2022 to voluntarily terminate the hire 
purchase agreement.
Mann Island arranged for the car to be sold, achieving £42,868 after costs. They then offset 
that amount against what Mr S owed under the terms of the agreement. That left Mr S with 
£16,451 to pay.
Mr S complained. He felt the car had been overpriced given the much lower sale price in 
2022. And he felt Mann Island shouldnt have given him the finance in 2021, given hed been 
turned down for a loan by another lender at the time.
Mann Island didnt agree. They said theyd considered Mr Ss credit file and other financial 
agreements together with his employment details, and found affordability was evident. 
They felt this meant theyd completed the checks needed. Mann Island also said the 
decrease in the value of the car was out of their control.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. I wrote a provisional decision last month explaining why I 
intended to uphold the complaint. My view was that Mann Island hadnt done enough to 
check the lending was responsible or affordable for Mr S. And I found that if they had, theyd 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 
To put things right, I felt Mann Island should cancel the agreement and refund what Mr S 
had paid, less a specified amount for the use hed had of the car. If Mr S owed Mann Island 
money I said they should arrange a sustainable payment plan with him. If Mann Island owed 
Mr S money, they should pay interest at 8% on the amount. And I said Mann Island should 
remove any negative reporting arising from this agreement that was on Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S said he had nothing to add after reading my provisional decision. Mann Island didnt 
accept what Id said and asked for a copy of information Id referred to in my decision, before 
giving their full response.
Mann Island felt it would have been disproportionate to carry out further checks at the time. 
And they thought it unlikely Mr S would have given them the information that hes 
subsequently given our investigation. They felt my view of what was needed wasnt in line 
with the regulators rules and guidance. They noted Mr S had a lot of similar agreements 
previously, and introduced some arguments for these being taken out by Mr S on behalf of 
other people. They felt that was a better explanation for his frequent changing of the 
agreements, given such changes would be likely to create a cost for Mr S when the trade-in 
price was less than the sale price of a car. They felt Mr S should be held solely responsible 
for not being able to afford the hire purchase agreement.  
I confirm Ive read and considered these comments before making my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the outcome I set out last time is the right one for this case. Ill 
explain why, adding to what I wrote previously to show why Mann Islands latest comments 
havent changed my mind. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Mann Island to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend someone money.
With these rules in mind, Im going to review Mann Islands actions in two stages.
1. Did Mann Island complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. If they did, was their decision to then lend to Mr S fair? If they didnt, would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Did Mann Island complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances. Some of the factors to consider are 
set out in CONC 5.2A.20. This includes the amount of credit, the duration, amount and 
frequency of the repayments, and the total amount payable (CONC 5.2A.20(3)(b) to (3)(f)).
It's worth bearing in mind that these rules were written with all types of consumer credit 
lending in mind, not just car finance. Car finance is likely to involve relatively high amounts of 
credit when compared to other forms of consumer credit lending, such as catalogue 
shopping for example. 
Ive got that in mind when I say the amount of credit here  £59,999  was relatively large. 
And that the monthly repayment - £1,074  was also relatively large. And when I note that 
Mr Ss commitment to make that repayment was to last for many years. CONC directs the 
creditworthiness assessment should be more thorough in those circumstances.
I note Mann Island say they looked at Mr Ss credit file and other financial agreements. Ive 
seen a copy of Mr Ss credit record. That shows me that the other commitments he had in 
late 2021 were significant. He had unsecured loans, a mortgage, credit cards and three other active hire purchase agreements.
I find that this level of exposure to debt should have driven Mann Island to consider Mr Ss 
income and expenditure in more detail before lending to him. I can appreciate Mann Island 
have talked about confirming Mr Ss income. But that alone wasnt enough to meet what the 
regulations required.
To comply with what CONC 5.2A.17 and 18 say about reviewing a customers 
non-discretionary expenditure, Mann Island should have tested whether Mr Ss level of 
income would satisfy all of his committed outgoings in a sustainable way. They should also 
have considered how affordable the agreement would be for him over its full term. I cant see 
Mann Island did these sorts of checks. So I find their creditworthiness assessment wasnt 
completed to a reasonable standard.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
I cant be certain what further enquiries Mann Island would have made here or what those 
would have found. But Ive spoken to Mr S about his use of credit at the time, and Ive looked 
at his bank statements from the three months before he took the finance from Mann Island.
From this information, Ive got an idea of what Mann Island would more likely than not have 
found if theyd completed a reasonable check. I also now have the benefit of Mann Islands 
review of the information I referred to last time against the information they had at the time. 
For his income, I can see Mr S received a lot of money from sources other than his salary. 
Over the three months of statements Ive seen he received £24,759. Only about 30% of this 
 £7,545  was from his salary. The rest came from other sources.
Some appear to be one-off payments. For example Mr S appears to have sold a car in the 
months prior to this agreement. These couldnt be relied on over the full term of the 
agreement, so Im not going to consider them deeply for my review.
There were also payments from another account in Mr Ss name, possibly his savings. And 
other payments came from named individuals who featured repeatedly over the months, 
suggesting Mr S could rely on them as a source of income into the future. But the amounts 
varied, and would be dependent on the availability of Mr Ss savings, and the willingness of 
named people to continue giving Mr S money.
Looking just at the payments present in all of the statements where the amount was fixed 
each month, I can see Mr S regularly received £3,190 each month. Thats consistent with the 
£48,000 income Mann Island had determined for Mr S when they considered his finance 
application. So Im comfortable relying on that figure as his reliable income each month.
Looking at Mr Ss monthly expenditure, I can see he paid £1,004 each month to a mortgage. 
Mann Island have mentioned considering this as a joint expense, but Mr S disagrees with 
that view. I note though that Mr S received about as much from his wife over the three 
months of bank statements as he paid towards the mortgage. Mann Island have also pointed 
out that Mr Ss credit file identified it as a joint mortgage at the time of his application. So I 
think its reasonable to conclude Mr Ss wife would have made some contribution to the 
mortgage if Mr S wasnt able to. 
But it wouldnt be right to completely ignore this as non-discretionary expenditure for Mr S. It 
paid for the roof over his head, and to meet a commitment jointly in his name. So he was 
always likely to pay something towards it. In addition, Mr Ss credit file and his bank statements show he had a lot of existing debt. He 
had loans and other hire purchase agreements that required monthly repayments. Factoring 
out the £869 per month hire purchase agreement Mr S was looking to replace, he seems to 
have had £1,459 to pay on top of his credit cards.
Mann Island have commented that these accounts were being run in an orderly manner. But 
the assessment also needed to consider how the new borrowing would sit alongside the 
existing committed expenditure. 
Adding the £1,459 of monthly debt repayments to the £1,074 per month commitment Mann 
Island were considering gives £2,533. Comparing this with Mr Ss reliable income of £3,190, 
hed have had £657 left each month to put towards his mortgage, his credit cards, running 
costs for the car, and any other household expenses.
Given his mortgage alone was more than this, I find Mr S couldnt have afforded this 
agreement based just on his own salary and reliable income. Hed have needed to use 
savings and have support from his wifes finances. But attempting to factor that support in is 
complicated by the fact she wasnt part of Mr Ss application and I dont have confirmed 
details or independent evidence of her financial position at the time.
The absence of those details in part reflects that Mann Island didnt complete sufficient 
checks at the time. In the absence of this sort of information, its unsound to conclude Mr Ss 
access to extra funds to support his debts would have continued. As an application solely in 
Mr Ss name, I find this agreement was unaffordable.
Mann Island have referred to Mr S having access to a £2,000 overdraft at the time. But I 
dont consider factoring this in would be in keeping with CONC 5.2A.12(3). That rule says 
the firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement 
without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments. An overdraft is a type of 
borrowing, and would need to have been paid back somehow. 
Another factor here was that Mr S didnt plan to keep this car. Hes told me he was following 
a pattern where he would acquire a car on finance, keep it for a short time, and then trade it 
in. His past use of hire purchase agreements seems to reflect this  none of them from the 
three years prior to this agreement lasted more than six months.
Mr S has explained that in this way he was able to have a car while pushing his payment 
schedule back so there was over a month between payments. He made use of the delay 
between an agreement starting and the first payment being due.
Mann Island have questioned the sense in this, feeling it would be more expensive than 
keeping the original car and payment schedule. I agree it doesnt sound like a sensible 
approach to this type of credit. But I can see the approach working as Mr S described. 
For example, the statement of account Mann Island have shown us for this case tells me his 
first payment became due on 24 January 2022. But Mr Ss banks statements and credit file 
tell me the last payment he made to the £869 per month finance agreement this one 
replaced was on 25 November 2021. Thats a gap of two months between payments. 
So I can believe Mr Ss frequent change of vehicle was  in part  to achieve a longer period 
between repayments. Thats not to say it was a good method to use. But I feel a 
proportionate and thorough creditworthiness assessment would have found this was Mr Ss 
approach, and concluded it pointed to problems with affordability. 
I note Mann Island have said there were other conclusions to reach about this pattern of credit use. Particularly around Mr S taking out finance in his name with the intention other 
people would use the cars it acquired and pay him back for the monthly amounts due. I can 
see one agreement where this appears to be the case. But I cant see evidence of Mr S 
doing that for the agreement with Mann Island, or the agreement this finance replaced. 
Whether considering Mr Ss explanation or Mann Islands hypothesis, the issue remains that 
any gain from these approaches appears to be wiped out if the trade-in or resale value of the 
car is much less than its purchase price. 
Ive considered whether thats where the unsecured loans on Mr Ss credit record come in. 
Hed effectively be taking on a smaller loan to cover the difference in price, in order to free 
himself from the larger car finance commitment. But I cant see the figures or dates really 
match up. 
Whats more notable to me is that part of Mr Ss complaint was about the large fall in the 
value of this car. Although in hindsight this seems like the obvious risk in his approach, it 
appears he hadnt considered how this would affect him until it happened. I can appreciate 
Mann Islands view that this makes Mr S responsible for the problems he went on to have 
with the agreement. But my decision here is about Mr Ss complaint about Mann Island, not 
their view of him. 
Deeper enquiries from Mann Island could have got them to a point where they could see this 
risk in Mr Ss approach to his car finance agreements. Or they could  as they seem to now 
 conclude that Mr S had taken out credit agreements to benefit other people previously, and 
was possibly doing so here. Either way, I find it unlikely theyd have agreed to lend this much 
money to him in those circumstances.  
For my decision, Mr Ss need to rely on money that I cant see could be relied on for the 
whole term of the agreement, coupled with the way he was using his hire purchase 
agreements to get more time to pay, speaks to this agreement being unaffordable for him. 
With better checks I find Mann Island would have seen that was the case, and should have 
declined his application for finance.
Putting things right
Ive decided a reasonable aim here is to put Mr S in the position he would have been in, if 
Mann Island hadnt agreed to lend to him. 
That would have meant he didnt have this agreement, and Mann Island couldnt have 
charged him interest and fees for this borrowing. So I find a fair remedy will be to have Mann 
Island cancel the agreement and refund what Mr S has paid for it.
This remedy will need to factor in that Mr S has had the use of the car from December 2021 
to August 2022. There isnt an exact formula for working out a fair amount to reflect that use. 
But Ive thought about the monthly amount payable for this car under the agreement without 
any interest being applied.
The purchase price for this car was £59,999. Although Mr S has said he now feels that was 
overpriced, thats not something I can directly comment on. The price was set by the car 
dealership, which doesnt fall within the scope of my decision. And Mr S agreed to pay that 
price. So I dont intend to step in and change that figure.
Under the agreement with Mann Island, thered have been an optional final payment of 
£21,400 to purchase the car after four years. The difference between that and the purchase 
price  £38,599  can be considered as the amount Mr S would have paid off towards the car separate to interest and charges under the agreement.
With a monthly payment of £1,074, Mr S would have paid a total of £51,552 after 48 months. 
Dividing the £38,599 by this amount tells me 74.9% of the monthly payment was effectively 
paying towards the cars cost. Applying that percentage to the monthly payment amount, I 
calculate that £804 per month was being paid towards the cost of the car.
Ive decided £804 will be a fair value to reflect Mr Ss use of this car. Its relatively high, but 
that reflects that the car was relatively expensive. And its in keeping with the monthly cost of 
the hire purchase agreement Mr S had before this one with Mann Island. And it reflects that 
the car here hadnt been used excessively, clocking up less than 7,000 miles before Mr S 
handed it back.
That means any refund for what Mr S paid under the agreement should deduct nine months 
worth of this fair use payment, to reflect the use Mr S had from the car. That comes to 
£7,236, which I believe is more than Mr S has paid to date. Mann Island will need to work 
out whats still owed, and then arrange a reasonable payment plan with Mr S.
If Mr S has paid more than this and Mann Island need to pay him some refund, they should 
add simple interest at 8% per year from the date Mr S made the payment to the date the 
money is paid back to him. This will reflect that Mr S has been without the use of the money 
for that time.
In addition, it seems likely the credit agreement here will have caused adverse markers to be 
added to Mr Ss credit record. Mann Island should take steps to remove these from Mr Ss 
credit record, to reflect my decision that he shouldnt have been given the credit.
Ive also thought about compensation for the trouble and upset Mr S has been caused. But 
Ive decided not to direct a remedy for this. I can understand that struggling to make the 
payments needed to meet this agreement would have been distressing for Mr S. But there 
was also a benefit to having the car this agreement allowed him to acquire. I feel ultimately 
the emotional impact of this case is broadly balanced out so that things arent worse than 
they would have been if the service had been reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint about MI Vehicle Finance 
Limited trading as Mann Island, and I direct them to:
cancel the agreement with Mr S and refund what hes paid towards it, less a 
deduction of £804 per month for the time Mr S had the car; 
arrange a reasonable and sustainable payment plan with Mr S for any money he may 
still owe for the fair usage, or add 8% simple interest per year to any money Mr S has 
paid in excess of the fair usage cost; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to this hire 
purchase agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman