DRN-3930526
The complaint
Miss S and Mr P are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling 
of a claim made under their contents insurance policy. 
Any references to RSA include its agents. As Miss S has been the main correspondent for 
this case, for ease Ill only refer to her. 
What happened
Miss S took the policy out in early 2022. In February she became concerned a blocked drain 
was causing water to enter her home and damaged some of their contents. Miss S 
contacted RSA.
RSA arranged for an inspection to be carried out. The contractor (who Ill refer to as R) said 
while the readings indicated moisture levels in the concrete floor were slightly elevated, they 
werent so high damage would be caused to Miss S and Mr Ps contents. So, the claim was 
declined. Miss S made a number of complaints to RSA. As well as being unhappy with the 
claim being declined, Miss S said she was unhappy alternative accommodation wasnt 
provided but she thought should have been, as she considered her home wasnt habitable. 
RSA sent a final response in March 2022. In summary, it didnt uphold the complaints Miss S 
made. It said while Miss S had been concerned about the issue with the drains, there wasnt 
evidence of any damage to Miss S home or contents caused by water coming into the 
property. RSA went on to say it wouldnt provide alternative accommodation as it didnt 
agree the property was uninhabitable. It didnt consider Miss S had shown she had a valid 
claim that would be covered by the policy taken out.
As Miss S remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service. It was considered 
by an investigator who said she didnt think RSA had acted unfairly in declining the claim. As 
Miss S didnt agree, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive focused on what I consider to be the central issues of the 
complaint. Some of the concerns Miss S has shared with us cant be considered by RSA 
because they relate to either her landlord, council, water company or the police. Im sorry to 
read of the concerns Miss S directed at other third-party organisations, I think its helpful 
here to also say that my decision focuses only on how RSA has responded to the concerns it 
is able to respond to under the policy held.
With the above in mind, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and Ill set out 
why.
Ive considered the information provided by Miss S, along with the reports provided by RSA. 
I can see in the file there is an acknowledgement in the report issued by R which records the 
moisture level of the floor as being slightly elevated. There are also emails which set out 
there wasnt evidence of a consistent escape of water and what Miss S said she saw was 
irregular in nature. But I think its important to be clear Rs report making a finding the 
moisture levels in the floor were slightly elevated doesnt, in itself, mean the claim Miss S 
made must be accepted and settled by RSA.
I say this because, while I acknowledge the meter readings, along with the information sent 
by Miss S which includes photographs of the floor, the information I find most persuasive are 
the two expert reports provided by RSA. One report was carried out by R and the other was 
carried out by a loss adjuster. Whilst these reports were both instructed by RSA, they were 
conducted independently of each other. And both conclude there wasnt any evidence of an 
escape of water, or that there was damage to the contents Miss S claimed for caused by an 
escape of water. 
There are various references in the file to changes to the flooring in Miss S home. Theres a 
reference to carpet being removed and rugs put in its place. Theres also a dispute about 
whether the thermoplastic tiles had been removed, and the purpose of these tiles was said 
to act as a damp-proof membrane, preventing moisture from entering the property. Another 
report said a second layer of flooring had been laid over the floor which could cause 
moisture between the two sets of flooring. So, there are a number of factors that could have 
contributed to the moisture level of the flooring being slightly elevated, but I cant see that 
any of these reasons are evidence there has been an escape of water either in Miss S 
home or entering into her home from an outside source. 
Overall, having considered the information provided, Im satisfied RSAs response to this 
claim was fair, and this is because I havent seen any evidence there was an escape of 
water which caused damage to their contents. I cant conclude RSA acted unreasonably 
when declining the claim. I also dont think RSA acted unreasonably when declining to 
provide Miss S with alternative accommodation when she asked it to. 
While I know my decision wont be the one Miss S and Mr P are hoping for, I dont think RSA 
has acted unfairly. I dont require it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman