DRN-4030034
The complaint
The estate of the late Ms B has complained about the way Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited (L&G) dealt with the claims it made on her life insurance policies. 
What happened
Ms B had two life insurance policies with L&G which she had taken out in May 2018 and 
October 2018 through an independent financial adviser.
Sadly, Ms B died in 2020. The estate made a claim on both policies. 
L&G declined the claims and said Ms B hadnt answered questions about her medical history 
correctly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation 
which entitled it to avoid the policy and decline the claims. 
The estate brought the complaint to this Service and our investigator thought it shouldnt be 
upheld as Ms B had made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The estate disagreed with the investigator and in summary, made the following comments:
Ms B didnt understand her condition or diagnosis. The estate says L&G suggests Ms 
B was fraudulent.
CIDRA says it is presumed that the consumer has the knowledge of a reasonable 
consumer unless the contrary is shown. Ms Bs diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia 
should be considered as it shows she would have had less than reasonable 
understanding. 
Ms B did not know that the information she provided was untrue or that it was 
relevant to the insurer. When the applications were made, Ms Bs symptoms were 
being investigated and Ms B herself did not feel that she was experiencing symptoms 
that would produce a diagnosis of dementia  she repeatedly attributed her 
symptoms to the menopause.
Ms B applied for the policy in May 2018 and wasnt officially diagnosed until August 
2018. It is likely that she did not accept or understand the official diagnosis. She 
chose to proceed with medical assessments due to persistence of her concerned 
children and felt she was functioning as she always had been.  
The independent financial adviser involved had a duty to keep records and should 
have been questioned and challenged about their involvement.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G thinks Ms B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
failed to disclose her appointments with the memory service. 
Ive looked at the questions Ms B was asked and I dont think Ms B took reasonable care. 
The questions she was asked were as follows:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for any neurological 
condition, for example multiple sclerosis, Parkinsons disease, epilepsy, fits?
Apart from anything youve already told us about in your application, during the last 2 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for anxiety, 
depression or stress thats required treatment or counselling, or chronic fatigue 
syndrome?
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 2 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for memory loss?
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, do you have any 
medical condition or symptom that youre waiting to be seen at or attending hospital 
for?
Ms B answered no to all of the above questions. 
L&G has said that even if Ms B didnt feel she had any issues with her memory, she did tell 
memory services about her symptoms of anxiety and depression and they recommended 
she seek further treatment. When she made a further application in October 2018, she had 
been diagnosed with dementia and should have told L&G about that. 
Thats because even if she didnt agree that she had symptoms of a condition, she was 
aware that shed had an appointment and her medical notes show she was discharged from 
and re-referred to memory services. So this should have been disclosed. 
L&G has provided evidence to show that had Ms B correctly answered the questions at the 
point of application for the policies, it never would have offered her a policy. 
This means Im satisfied that Ms Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Ive looked at the actions L&G can take in accordance with CIDRA. L&G has avoided the policies, declined the claims but returned the premiums and so it has treated the 
misrepresentation as careless.  As this offers the most favourable outcome for Ms B, I think 
L&G has acted fairly and reasonably. 
The estate has raised concerns about Ms B not understanding her symptoms or diagnosis. 
Based on the questions outlined above, even if Ms B didnt understand her diagnosis, she 
was aware of her symptoms and should have answered yes to at least one of the questions. 
On that basis, she made a qualifying representation and CIDRA applies. 
In relation to the IFAs involvement, that isnt something L&G can be held responsible for and 
it isnt something I can consider in this decision. The estate would need to raise a separate 
complaint about the IFA. 
L&G did accept that it had delayed in assessing the claims for which it apologised and 
offered £400 compensation which I consider is reasonable. It is up to the estate to contact 
L&G if it wishes to accept the compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms B 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman