DRN-2704986
The complaint
Ms M and Mrs T say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2004 Ms M and Mrs T took out a PPI policy in a meeting at the same time as they were 
applying for a mortgage. The cover gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M and Mrs T disagreed saying, in summary, 
Ms M would always have been able to cover the mortgage payments in full, so they had no 
need for the cover. As no agreement had been reached the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ms M and Mrs T raised a number of points in response to the adjudicators view and I have 
reviewed their responses carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution 
service I will comment here only on those I find to be material to the outcome of their 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms M and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms M and Mrs T say that Nationwide didnt made it clear the PPI was optional, had it done 
so they would have realised it wasnt necessary. I cant know what was said in the meeting, 
but Ive looked at the available paperwork from the sale. On their signed mortgage 
application form it shows that Ms M and Mrs T wanted PPI. It sets out the level of cover they 
wanted, the deferral period, the amount of cover required and how they wanted it split 
between them. 
I disagree with Ms Ms point that the wording we strongly recommend shows they werent 
given a choice. I dont think they could have reasonably concluded from that phrase that they 
had to have PPI. Where an insurance was mandatory  so for building insurance  the form 
read it is essential for the buildings insurance to be arranged either by the Society or you. 
Also their level of cover (£650) exceeded their monthly mortgage repayments (£555.46) 
which suggest to me that they discussed the cover with Nationwide and understood they had 
choices. If they thought the PPI was something they had to have, but didnt want or need, I 
wouldnt have expected them to take out any cover beyond the value of their mortgage 
repayment. On the mortgage product confirmation document it says You have decided to 
proceed with Nationwides MPPI which suggests it was presented to them as optional. In 
their mortgage offer its set out in the Special Conditions that they are taking PPI and it gives 
the ongoing monthly cost, after the first 12 months which were free. As Ms M and Mrs T  
most likely got notice when the free period ended and didnt cancel the policy, this also 
suggests they wanted the cover.
I have considered their comments carefully, but I also have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how this might affect what they recall. Overall, I think its most likely 
Nationwide made clear the PPI was optional and Ms M and Mrs T agreed to take it out.
Ms M and Mrs T say that Nationwide recommended the policy to them - the documentation 
says we strongly recommend. Nationwide disagrees. I dont think its reasonable to interpret 
pre-printed standard wording as bespoke advice. And I havent found evidence that 
Nationwide reviewed their circumstances and made a tailored recommendation as a result. 
This means Nationwide didnt need to check if the PPI was suitable, rather its obligation was 
to provide Ms M and Mrs T with information about the policy that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could make an informed decision about whether or not to buy it. Its 
possible it could have done this better, but I dont think this would have changed Ms M and 
Mrs Ts decision. Ill explain why. 
Ms M and Mrs T say they didnt need the PPI. But based on what I know of their 
circumstances at the time I think it would have been useful for them, in addition to their 
existing means. Ms M was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was 
sick, and Mrs Ts entitlement at the time was two months full pay and two months half pay if 
she was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 
12 months. Ms M has evidenced she had instant access cash savings of £47,000 in May 
2003 and £16,000 in February 2005. But I dont know the value at the time of the sale, and 
whether she had used any or all of these savings to fund her contribution to the deposit. So I 
cant fairly conclude Ms M had sufficient cash savings not to need the PPI. And the PPI 
would have allowed her to use any savings for other living expenses, or to keep them intact 
for her future needs. I note she received profit share of around £3,200 from the family 
business in 2003/4 but this wasnt of such value to mean she had no need for PPI - and 
income from a profit share tends to vary and wouldnt be guaranteed going forward.
Ms M has also given us details of a number of longer-term investments, and a pension, in 
her husbands name but I cant consider these means. He was not party to this mortgage 
and had no liability for the debt. Ms M also sent detail of the assets held in their joint 
business but selling any such assets would be a drastic and uncertain option, and not 
something Ms M had sole control of. I understand Mrs T also had some savings, but the PPI 
would have allowed her to use these for other living expenses, or to keep them intact for her 
future needs. The policy also gave both parties up to 12 months unemployment cover. This 
would have been in addition to any redundancy pay from their employers allowing them to 
protect any lump sum repayments. This would give increased financial stability at an already 
difficult time.
Ms M and Mrs T were borrowing over a long term and the debt was secured on Mrs Ts 
home, so I think overall the PPI would have been useful if they were sick of lost their job(s). 
Ms M and Mrs T say the costs and benefits were not explained to them. They say if they had 
been made clear they would have realised it wasnt necessary. But the benefit level they had 
selected was on their mortgage application form and on the mortgage product confirmation 
document, and the cost was set out on their mortgage offer. And the PPI was reasonably 
priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. As they were paying a monthly 
premium, had Ms M and Mrs T no longer wanted PPI they could have cancelled it without 
incurring any further cost.
I dont know when the exclusions and limitations were made clear, but it seems Ms M and 
Mrs T werent affected by them in such a way that I think between information would have changed their decision. Whilst Ms M is correct any pre-existing medical conditions wouldnt 
have been covered for the first 12 months. But from what theyve told us Mrs Ts condition(s) 
hadnt caused her to take any time off work after the initial treatment or to need medication 
or ongoing treatment. So I dont think its likely she would have expected to make a related 
claim. Plus the exclusion was only for the first 12 months of the policy.
It follows I dont think Ms M and Mrs T have lost out as result of any problems with this sale. 
Ms M has referenced another PPI complaint Mrs T made that Nationwide upheld, but I can 
only comment here on the merits of this individual case. I have thought carefully about all of 
their points  including Ms Ms comment that she didnt sign the mortgage product 
confirmation document - but for all the reasons set out above my conclusion remains that I 
am not upholding their complaint.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M and Mrs T because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms M and Mrs T about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Ms M and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M and Mrs T.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Ms M and Mrs T any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman