DRN-3429399
The complaint
Mr C complains that Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit isnt offering him new 
interest rate products. Mr C says that Peppers decision not to offer new interest rate 
products, and its affordability rules, make him a mortgage prisoner. And that hes 
experienced financial difficulties as a result.
Mr C would like to be compensated for the additional interest hes paid on the standard 
variable rate when compared to an alternative market-competitive fixed rate mortgage.
Mr Cs complaint has been brought by a claims firm acting as his representative.  
What happened
In 2006 Mr C took out a mortgage with Northern Rock. Since Northern Rocks collapse in 
2008, Mr Cs mortgage has been transferred between a number of successor lenders.
In 2010 Mr C wanted to move house. By that point his lender was Northern Rock (Asset 
Management) plc. The lender agreed to let him port his mortgage from one property to 
another. In 2010 Mr C agreed a mortgage loan of around £88,000 on a capital repayment 
basis, to be repaid over 25 years. The mortgage was offered on the lenders standard 
variable rate (SVR) for seven years, before moving to a variable loyalty discount rate 
(discounted at 0.25% below the SVR) for the remaining term.   
Since 2016 Pepper has administered the mortgage on behalf of two respective unregulated 
lenders. Pepper has told Mr C it is responsible for the day to day administration and 
management of the mortgage account. It said the terms and conditions of Mr Cs mortgage 
have remained the same despite it being transferred between lenders. Most recently, in 
2020, Pepper said Grasmere Mortgages Limited had taken over obligations such as setting 
interest rates and the charges applicable to the mortgage.  
In August 2020 Mr C complained to Pepper. Mr C is unhappy that his lender is inactive and 
isnt offering any further lending or new interest rate products. His mortgage is on the 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR) which he says means hes a mortgage prisoner. Mr C says 
hes suffered financial difficulties as a result.
On 28 August 2020 Pepper gave a final response to the complaint, not upholding the 
complaint. In summary, Pepper said it wasnt able to offer any reduced interest rates to Mr C 
and that a variable rate of 4.140% was being applied at that time. Mr C referred his 
complaint to us as he was dissatisfied with Peppers response.
On 10 December 2020 Pepper wrote to Mr C saying he might qualify for a cheaper mortgage 
with a new lender. The letter referred to regulatory rules that had been changed to make it 
simpler to switch to a cheaper mortgage with a new lender if you are up to date with your 
mortgage payments and you dont want to borrow any more money. It gave information 
about who Mr C could contact to explore this as an option.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said he could look at this complaint against 
Pepper since they started to administer this mortgage in 2016. In summary, our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Pepper had acted unfairly in not 
offering new interest rate products to Mr C, and he couldnt find a record that Mr C had 
asked Pepper for help managing his financial difficulties because of the interest rate, with the 
exception of during the covid-19 pandemic.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint again and reach a final decision on 
the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pepper acts as the administrator of this mortgage because since 2016 the loan has been 
owned by unregulated lenders. Where a regulated mortgage is sold to an unregulated 
borrower, it is a requirement of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that a regulated 
administrator be appointed to manage the day to day operations of the loan. 
It is ultimately for mortgage lenders to decide whether they want to offer new mortgage 
lending and interest rate products to customers. There is no regulatory requirement for the 
lender or the administrator to do so. It appears the last two respective lenders have made 
the commercial decision not to offer new lending or interest rate products, and to operate as 
inactive lenders. That is a matter for the lender to decide and it isnt something that Pepper, 
the party being complained about here, can control or influence. And so, it follows that I dont 
think it reasonable to uphold a complaint about Peppers failure to provide new interest rate 
products to Mr C when this isnt something it is responsible for.
I dont think Pepper has acted unreasonably or unfairly by administering Mr Cs mortgage in 
the way that it has. The mortgage has remained on the SVR until such time that it 
transferred to the variable loyalty discount rate. Thats in line with the terms and conditions of 
the 2010 mortgage offer. 
I can see why Mr C is frustrated that his current lender has chosen not to make further rates 
available and why hed like access to the most competitive interest rates in the mortgage 
market. However, as Pepper has pointed out, including in the letter dated 10 December 
2020, Mr C may be able to switch his mortgage to another lender. As the letter says, there 
has been a change in mortgage regulation, to help more borrowers with inactive mortgage 
lenders like Mr C, to switch their mortgage to another active lender that offers competitively 
priced products and further lending. 
This may be a valid option for Mr C. No mention has been made by his representative about 
whether Mr C has taken any steps to look into this and what other practical barriers may 
have prevented Mr C from moving his mortgage. I believe this may be a potential option for 
Mr C as his mortgage is on a capital repayment basis. The outstanding balance has reduced 
considerably since 2010 and Mr C may have significant equity in the property. If Mr C would 
like information about switching his mortgage, our investigator can provide details of where 
he can access free mortgage advice to help him explore whether switching to an active 
lender is a possibility for him.
I dont find any merit to the part of Mr Cs complaint about Pepper not applying affordability 
assessments properly- and that this has led to Mr C being trapped on an SVR. Pepper 
hasnt applied any affordability assessments. It will be for a prospective lender to do this, 
using the amended affordability rules introduced by the FCA. As Pepper isnt responsible for 
any affordability assessment completed by any potential future lenders, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman