DRN-3328074
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC is holding her liable for a credit card
she says was taken out by her ex-partner which she had no knowledge of. She is being held
liable for the debt on the account which she disputes. Miss S says she didnt benefit from the
money transfers that were made fraudulently by her ex-partner. She is asking Tesco to write
off the debt.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to the 
same outcome as our investigator, but I explained my reasoning for this in more detail. 
Because of this, I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond. 
I have copied my provisional decision below. Which also forms part of this final decision.
In October 2019 Miss S contacted Tesco to dispute a credit card taken out in her name in
2017. In her complaint form to our service she said her now ex-partner had applied for this
credit card without her knowledge. She said when she confronted her ex-partner she
admitted it and also had paying it off, but was no longer willing to pay the debt. During their
relationship Miss S said her partner had used her bank account for a little while, due to
some financial issues she had with her own bank and referred to sharing her bank account
with her partner prior to bringing the complaint.
Miss S said when she made an initial call to the bank in October 2019 it was then that she
was made aware several money transfers from the credit card had credited her
current account. Miss S says if she had known her partner was making the money transfers
from a credit card - fraudulently taken out in her name - she would have reported it sooner.
Miss S has told us, in later correspondence, that she was in an abusive relationship and her
ex-partner had full control of her finances. She says thats why she didnt notice repayments
were being made to the credit card from her current account.
Tesco says the account was opened in 2017 using all of Miss Ss correct details. A card and
PIN were sent to her home address as well as welcome letters. The account was set up for
e-billing between June 2017 and October 2019 and regular statements were sent to Miss Ss
email address  this is the same email address she has used to correspond with our service.
Tesco says the money transfers were made using mobile banking (using the same mobile
Miss S used to contact Tesco about the dispute) and a monthly direct debit was set up from
Miss Ss sole current account (held at a different bank). A default letter was later sent to 
Miss Ss home address in November 2018. A joint current account was opened with Tesco 
in February 2019 with Miss S and her ex-partner as the account holders. The accounts had
separate mobile log-in profiles.
Miss S has said she didnt receive any letters, statements or emails from Tesco, as her
partner had access to and control of all of these. But she did receive a letter about a missed
payment which she says led to her discovery of the credit card (and other debts) her ex-
partner
had accrued in her name. She says she didnt receive any statements on her current
account either which is why she didnt notice the credits and repayments relating to the
Tesco credit card.
Tesco provided call recordings of what it believes are between Miss S and Tesco in
December 2018 and January 2019. The investigator provided the general content of these
calls in his findings so I wont repeat them in full here, but in summary the caller:
-Is calling about one money transfer made on the credit card for £100.
-Seems to be aware of the account and its general use but is querying this one 
transfer.
-The caller has some issues initially passing security but goes on to pass this.
-Acknowledges a repayment on the card is due soon and is calling because they 
noticed the balance wasnt as expected.
-The caller is asked if anyone else has access to the card or if she could have 
sent the money to someone else to which she says no.
-Is questioned by the Tesco representative about the name of the payee which the 
caller denies knowing.
-The Tesco representative says the transfer was made via the account holders 
mobile device and asks the caller who else could have access to this  the caller 
says no-one as they use their thumb print and the log in information for the app 
which no-one else knows.
-The caller is questioned about a previous money transfer of £850 and says she 
cant recall it but if it went to her bank account then it must have been her.
-A formal dispute is raised about the £100 transfer.
Miss S raised a complaint with Tesco in October 2019 to dispute the opening of the account
and all the money transfers - saying they werent made by her and she shouldnt be held
liable for the debt. Tesco looked into Miss Ss fraud claim and decided to hold her liable for
the debt. It said it didnt think there was any real way she couldnt have known about the
account. It believed Miss S was involved in the management of the account as several of the
money transfers credited her sole current account, so it thinks she had considerable use of
the funds.
Miss S was unhappy with the outcome and brought the complaint to our service. One of our
investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, having listened to
the calls made to Tesco (in December 2018 and January 2019), he was satisfied they were
made by Miss S. The investigator has shared these calls with Miss S who says she doesnt
believe that caller is her but someone impersonating her. But also goes on to say if they
were made by her, she was taken advantage of and coerced into making them and thats
why she doesnt recall them.
The investigator said whilst he had sympathy for Miss Ss situation, he thought it was more
likely than not that she had knowledge and access to the Tesco credit card account, given 
the conversations shed had with Tesco over the phone, combined with the account opening,
and account activity. Post and emails were sent to Mss Ss home address and her email
account and whilst the investigator acknowledged some of these could have been
intercepted by Miss Ss ex-partner it didnt seem likely that Miss S hadnt seen any of them
and had no knowledge of the account as she says.
Miss S disagreed in summary she said:-Before hearing the call recordings, she said she had no recollection of the phone
-calls between her and Tesco and questions if they were made by her or someone
-impersonating her.
-After listening to the calls, she said they did not sound like her and had concerns 
that the caller failed initial security questions and thinks this was a tactic by the 
caller to obtain the information needed to answer the questions.
-She wasnt aware the credit card had been used in connection with the current
-account at the time.
-She didnt receive any emails or statements from Tesco prior to Oct 2019.
-She didnt have online access to the credit card and didnt change or reset any
-details following a call with Tesco.
-Because she had previously said that her current account was used for bills this 
did not mean she had benefitted from the money transfers - her wages had been 
used to pay the bills.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same
reasons. But I have reviewed additional information and commented on this evidence.
Relevant considerations
The regulations most relevant to this case are the Payments Service Regulations 2009 &
2017 (PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when a bank is responsible for
transactions on an account. A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions
they authorise.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. Based on all the
evidence Ive seen Im persuaded Miss S consented to and therefore authorised these
transactions and Tesco is entitled to hold her liable for the debt. Ill explain why.
The account opening and activity
I agree with the investigator that its possible and reasonable for Miss Ss ex-partner to have
had access to Miss Ss personal information. But she would have also needed access to her
phone, post and email in order to carry out these disputed transactions without Miss Ss
knowledge or consent. And that doesnt seem likely, given the frequency of the
communication between Tesco and the account holder. Miss S would have needed to
relinquish her mobile device several times over the course of two years, as well have all
emails and post intercepted from Tesco during the same period. I think its unlikely that 
Miss S wouldnt have seen any correspondence from Tesco during this time.
In addition to this Miss Ss current account (held at a different bank) was in receipt of several
of the money transfers. I can see there is a lot of activity on this account between her and
her ex-partner as well as household bills being paid but also general day to day spending.
Miss S hasnt said she didnt have any access to this account. It appears her wages were
paid into the account so if she had access to the account  as it seems likely she did - it
seems unlikely that she wouldnt have seen the credits or debits relating to the Tesco credit
card - even if she didnt receive the statements for this account as she says.Ive also considered that Miss S says that this all occurred because she was under duress
but Miss hasnt been consistent when explaining what happened. Either she did know about
the card and the transfers and was forced to continue with them, or she didnt know anything
about them. If she was coerced, she hasnt ever explained this to Tesco and this is different
to the complaint she originally raised with them and our service.
The calls with Tesco in December 2018 and January 2019
Ive listened carefully to the calls made to Tesco, the calls Miss S has had with our service
and genuine calls she made t Tesco where she raised the dispute in October 2019, and Im
satisfied its the same person.
Miss S has said that she doesnt think it was her making the calls but if it was her then she
wouldve been under duress and thats why she cant recall them. Having listened to the
calls here are my thoughts on them:
-If it wasnt Miss S why would someone else call up to question a money transfer 
and then raise a dispute about it? These arent the actions of someone using the 
account wanting to go undetected - as Miss S says her ex-partner was doing. Or 
the actions of someone who is using the account by force or duress.
-During the call with the bank in January 2019 Miss Ss partner is named as the
-recipient of money transfer which is being disputed. The caller is asked 
repeatedly if she knows this person and the caller says no. Miss S has since 
confirmed the recipient of the funds was her ex-partner who she also held a joint 
account with, at the time of the call. Miss S claims that if it was her making this 
call then this is evidence that she was under duress at the time and thats why 
she lied. But if she was under duress during this call then it doesnt make sense 
why she would call up to query the transaction in the first place and raise a 
dispute about it.
-The caller is fully aware of the account, that money transfers were being made 
and that repayment was also being made. Because Im persuaded this was 
Miss S on these calls, Im not sure why she has said she didnt know about the 
account and the transfers.
Miss Ss version of events
Miss S didnt raise the dispute with Tesco until October 2019. But as Ive concluded above,
Im satisfied she made the calls to Tesco in December 2018 and January 2019. So, it would
appear that she knew and disputed some of the activity some 10 months before disputing
the overall opening the account and all the spending. Miss S hasnt said why there was a
delay in raising the dispute. And this contradicts her earlier statement that if shed known
about the transfers, she would have reported it sooner. But I think she did.
There are two further money transfers after the dispute is raised in January 2019. Its not
clear why or how these would have been possible if Miss S was aware of the fraudulent
opening of the account and its use in December 2018.
Tesco says it has no record of Miss Ss personal circumstances and it has never been made
aware that Miss S was in an abusive relationship. Given that she is asking it to write off a
debt which she says was accrued through force and coercion its surprising she hasnt ever
explained this to Tesco. In her initial complaint to Tesco she says, it had been brought to her
attention that a credit card had been opened in her name and she didnt know anything
about it but believed it was taken out by an ex-partner. Miss S says her ex-partner took out
seven other cards and a loan in her name and after confronting her she said she wouldnt bepaying it back. But Miss S has changed her version of events several times. I dont think her
explanation is consistent with the account activity and her actions throughout the course of
credit card being in use.
Summary
I think its more likely than not that Miss S was aware of and involved in the account opening
and money transfers and as such either made the transactions herself or consented to them
being made. I think its likely that Miss Ss relationship has since broken down and she is left
with a debt she feels isnt solely her responsibility. But because Im persuaded that she
consented to and authorised the account opening and transactions on the account, Im
satisfied Tesco is entitled to hold her liable for the debt.
Tesco didnt respond to my provisional findings. Miss S did and in summary she said:
-She didnt think the information had been reviewed efficiently as I had said that 
she was asking for the debt to be written off, which shes not specifically said. 
She has mentioned she wants to settle the matter fairly as she believes neither 
her or Tesco are at fault. 
-Miss S says shes mentioned several times and agrees that her wages were paid 
into the same account where several of the money transfers were credited. It was 
her main bank account and she had used it for years, but her ex-partner had full 
possession of the card, during the majority of their relationship and would arrange 
to pay the bills if they werent already set up as direct debits. Miss S said just 
because there was activity on the account this doesnt mean it was her. 
-She has referred to the call where her ex-partners name was mentioned and the 
caller denies knowing them. She says she would have said she knew her if she 
had made the call, which makes her think it was her ex-partner making the call or 
someone acting on her behalf. 
-Miss S says from the start, she informed Tesco that she was in an abusive 
relationship and explained this to our service. Shes also provided evidence from 
the police to support this. Miss S that by saying she didnt share this with us and 
Tesco from the outset I havent considered all the facts of her complaint carefully.
Following Miss Ss responses, Ive considered the complaint again. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss S has raised anything new or persuaded me that I need to 
reach a different outcome here. Ill address her points in turn and explain why Im not uphold 
the complaint.
If Miss S isnt seeking for the debt to be written off, then its not clear what alternative she is 
seeking. She hasnt offered to repay any of the debt and shes unhappy with Tescos 
decision to hold her liable for the debt  which is what prompted her to bring the complaint to 
our service. Here Im considering whether its fair for Tesco to hold her liable for the debt and 
Ive taken everything she and Tesco have said and provided, into account, when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have carefully considered Miss Ss comments about her account and looked at how it was 
used. As Ive already said, Miss S hasnt said she didnt have any access to this account at all. Considering her wages were paid into the account and the volume of day to day activity I 
think its likely she did have some access to it, although I appreciate that could have been 
limited. And if she didnt have any access to the account then she hasnt explained what she 
did for money or day to day spending or for things like food and shopping during a two-year 
period. But because Im persuaded, she had some access to the account, I also think its 
likely she would have seen the credits or debits relating to the Tesco credit card - even if she 
didnt receive the statements for this account as she says. This is also supported by my 
further comments below on the calls made to Tesco.
Ive already covered my thoughts on the calls in some detail, so I wont repeat them all here. 
But Miss Ss explanation doesnt satisfy me it wasnt her in those calls. It sounds like her 
voice and I havent been persuaded otherwise. Also, it still doesnt explain why her ex-
partner would call up to dispute a payment she had made to an account in her own name. 
This just doesnt seem the most likely explanation. As Ive said Im still persuaded its Miss S 
in the calls. I think she was calling as she didnt know about this particular transfer, but the 
call persuades me that overall Miss S was aware of the account in general and the transfers. 
I asked Tesco if it was aware that Miss S was in an abusive relationship and it said it didnt. I 
accept its possible Miss S could have told Tesco but didnt make a note of this, but that 
would seem unusual given the serious nature of a conversation like this. And when Miss S 
first brought her complaint to our service she said when she discovered all the debt in her 
name, she thought this could have been in connection with her ex-partner as no-one else 
knew her details. It wasnt until later that Miss S said that her ex-partner had full control of all 
her finances and that she was in abusive relationship. So I have carefully looked at the 
evidence when concluding that Miss Ss version of events hasnt been consistent on this 
point. 
For the reasons Ive already explained Im not persuaded to change my findings from those 
set out in my provisional decision. Im satisfied Tesco is entitled to hold Miss S liable for the 
debt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss 
S to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman