DRN-4241339
The complaint
Ms E has complained that esure Insurance Limited renewed her home buildings insurance 
policy without her knowledge or consent.
What happened
In March 2020 Ms E bought a home buildings insurance policy with esure online. The policy 
was set up to automatically renew the following year unless Ms E let esure know she didnt 
want it to. 
Ms E says she moved home in May 2021. In 2023 Ms E realised esure had collected an 
annual premium from her card details in March 2021, 2022 and 2023 in 2023. 
esure agreed to refund the premiums it collected for the renewed policy in March 2023, 
March 2022, and a partial refund for the premium collected in March 2021, as Ms E moved 
home in May 2021. 
Ms E didnt think this was fair. She wants a full refund as she says she didnt agree for the 
policy to automatically renew. 
esure provided Ms E with a copy of the emails it sent to her ahead of the renewal date, 
which gave her the opportunity to cancel the renewal of the policies. esure said that as it was 
on risk for the property until the time Ms E moved address, it had fairly retained a portion of 
the premium for March to May 2021. 
Ms E remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought 
esure had acted reasonably. Ms E doesnt agree. She says esure hasnt complied with 
relevant rules and guidance from the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). So 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are entitled to automatically renew policies provided it has outlined this clearly in the 
policy terms. esure has provided a screenshot of what it says was available to Ms E when 
she bought her policy online in March 2020. This provided details of how Ms E could access 
her account online. Key information from the screenshot reads:
Auto Renewal - To make sure you have insurance in place that provides continuous 
cover, this policy automatically renews
And;
it goes without saying, you can decide if you want to auto-renew or not. If you dont 
want, you can opt out here
Ms E says the screenshot only shows that esure arranged automatic renewal without her 
active consent, which she says is a requirement under the ICOBS. 
Ive looked at esures policy wording to see what it said about the renewal of Ms Es policy. It 
says;
Renewal information
At least three weeks before the renewal date of Your Policy, We will provide You with 
details of the Terms on which Your Policy may be renewed and any changes to the 
Policy cover. We will also tell You if We are unable to renew Your Policy, for 
example, if You have made numerous claims, fail to comply with Our general Terms 
and conditions or You no longer fall within Our acceptance criteria. We will also tell 
You what You need to do to renew Your Policy.
If You pay Your premium by direct debit or credit/debit card Your Policy will 
automatically be renewed using the payment details You have given Us. If You wish 
to change Your method of payment, please contact Us prior to Your renewal date to 
arrange this.
If You do not wish to renew Your Policy and You have not told Us before the renewal 
date, We will continue to make deductions from Your bank account for the new 
premium. Please refer to Cancellation of Your home policy for further details on how 
to cancel Your Policy after the renewal date and the Terms that apply.
esure has provided a copy of the renewal invite it emailed to Ms E on 6 February 2021, one 
month before the renewal date of 6 March 2021. The covering letter highlighted in bold; 
Well automatically renew your policy for you
esure goes on to say;
Your policy will automatically renew and we'll simply collect your annual premium 
three days prior to your renewal date from the latest credit or debit card you gave us.
If you don't want to renew your policy, please call us on 0345 601 7079 at least four 
days before your renewal date. If you don't, it may be too late to stop us from 
collecting your premium. If you do renew your policy, you have 14 days from your 
renewal date to change your mind and cancel your policy. As long as no incidents 
have occurred which could lead to a claim, we'll refund any premium you've paid, 
less an administration fee.
Ms E has quoted from the ICOBS section 4.6.3: that a firm should include the terms of a 
continuous payment authority in plain and intelligible language. This section applies to 
(explained under section 4.6.1) a firm with respect to credit lending, consumer hiring, or 
other borrowing. In any event, under section 7.6; Exercise of continuous payment authority, 
the ICOBS reads:
7.6.1 (1) a firm must not exercise its rights under a continuous payment authority (or 
purport to doing so) 
(a) Unless it has been explained to the customer that the continuous payment 
authority would be used in the way in question; 
Ms E has quoted from ICOBS 4.1A.4R under the section; Means of communication to 
customers; non-telephone sales
A firm must ensure that a customers choice or consent to receive the information by 
means of a website (whether a durable medium or where the website conditions are 
satisfied) is an active and informed choice or consent.
Im satisfied from all of the evidence provided by RSA that it clearly explained to Ms E when 
she applied for the policy online that it would automatically renew her policy and provided 
her with the choice to opt out. esure gave Ms E a further opportunity to cancel the renewal of 
her policy in good time before the renewal date in March 2021 and subsequent years through the renewal invitations it sent to her. So I havent seen anything which shows RSA 
has acted against the ICOBS. 
As RSA has provided a refund and backdated it to the month Ms E says she moved address 
in May 2021, I think RSA has done enough to resolve her complaint and provided a fair 
outcome. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman