DRN-2929584
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest) declined his 
applications for a Bounce Bank Loan (BBL) and wont tell him the reason as to why.
 
What happened
Mr T was a sole trader and applied for a BBL with NatWest to help with his business on 
several occasions in May and June 2020. He was declined on each occasion and received 
letters stating the loan applications couldnt proceed as he wasnt a key signatory on the 
account. He also says he was told it was because his sort code and account number were 
wrong.
Following Mr T raising a complaint with NatWest about the declines, NatWest issued its final 
response to Mr T in July 2020. In this it explained that it could not proceed with his BBL 
applications because of information it had received as part of its usual checks and 
assessments. It therefore didnt uphold his complaint in regard to this, but it did apologise 
that he hadnt received the call backs hed been promised. 
Mr T remained unhappy that NatWest had declined his application and wanted to know why, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. He told us that he has since sold his business 
but still wants to know why the loans were declined so he can claim for his business loss.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She found that the decline letters Mr T had 
received were the result of an administrative error by NatWest, whereby it had Mr Ts name 
spelt incorrectly on its system. This is what resulted in the autogenerated letters saying he 
wasnt a key signatory. However, this wasnt the reason his loan applications were declined. 
She was satisfied NatWest had reviewed Mr Ts applications and was entitled to decline him 
for the loans. She also explained that NatWest didnt have to provide a reason for the 
decline. 
Mr T disagreed. He said that his understanding of the BBL scheme was that it gave the 
lender a full government-backed guarantee against the outstanding balance of the facility. 
Therefore, he couldnt understand how NatWest could decline his applications. He 
maintained that he wanted a full explanation as to why he was declined and said that if we 
couldnt tell him then he would take the matter to court.
Our investigator explained that the BBL scheme gave the bank a government backed   
guarantee to ensure it gets the outstanding balance back. The guarantee doesnt mean that 
customers are guaranteed to be approved for the loan. She also reiterated that NatWest 
doesnt have to provide a reason for the decline, and she wasnt therefore in a position to do 
so either. 
Because Mr T disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether a financial business chooses to offer lending to a customer is a commercial 
decision it is entitled to make. Our investigator has explained to Mr T that this is still the case 
for a BBL, despite it being backed by the government. And indeed, the government website 
indicates that the lender will decide whether to offer the loan and it may be declined.  
Whilst NatWest did send the incorrect decline letters to Mr T due to the error with his name 
on its system, Im satisfied this administrative error isnt what led to the applications being 
declined. Nor was there any issue with his sort code and account number as Mr T has 
suggested he was told. Instead, NatWest reviewed Mr Ts applications and took the 
commercial decision  which it is entitled to do - not to lend to him. So, Im satisfied RBS 
didnt make an error in declining Mr Ts BBL loan applications.
The crux of Mr Ts complaint though is that he would like to know why he was declined. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ts frustration around being kept in the dark, NatWest isnt obliged to 
provide a reason in these circumstances, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland 
(trading as NatWest). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman