DRN-3193836
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that AWP P&C SA have declined to meet a cancellation 
claim they made under their single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
When taking out their travel insurance in September 2019 Mr and Mrs H followed the policy 
guidance and disclosed their pre-existing medical conditions, which were accepted and their 
policy was endorsed accordingly. They were due to travel abroad in May 2020 and had paid 
a deposit of over £5000. Due to the onset of Covid-19 in March 2020 Mrs Hs general 
practitioner advised her not to travel because of her underlying lung condition.
Mr and Mrs H followed this advice. They cancelled the holiday on 13 March 2020 and in turn 
submitted a claim under the policy for their lost deposit. However AWP declined the claim on 
the basis the reason for cancelling was due to Mrs Hs pre-existing health condition and not 
due to one of the specific cancellation reasons covered by the policy.
Unhappy Mr and Mrs H referred the complaint here. Our investigator recommended that it be 
upheld as Mr and Mrs H were acting on her doctors advice not to travel  therefore she 
wouldnt have been covered if she had travelled.
AWP didnt agree. It said that the general exclusions applied to the policy as a whole but had 
no bearing on the specific circumstances that it was prepared to cover under each individual 
section. It maintained that the reason the holiday was cancelled simply wasnt covered under 
the policy.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide 
whether AWP treated them fairly. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on the reasons 
for my decision.
Cancellation was covered under Mr and Mrs Hs policy but, as is usual in policies of this 
type, there were limitations on the cover. Under Section D  Cancellation or curtailment it 
said:
What you are covered for up to £5,000
Should you necessarily have to cancel the projected journey before commencement or 
curtail it before completion as a result of:
The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security staff, 
summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your travelling
companion.
Mrs Hs GP had advised her not to travel, but this is not the same as compulsory quarantine 
on the orders of a treating doctor. So I agree AWP wasnt obliged to meet a cancellation 
claim under this section of the policy. However, the policy also has several general 
exclusions. One if these provided that there would be no cover under the medical expenses, 
personal accident and cancellation/curtailment sections of the policy - if a doctor had advised 
you not to travel. 
The advice that Mrs H had received from her GP because of her underlying health condition 
is not disputed. Her underlying health condition made her prone to respiratory illnesses. This 
condition had been disclosed to AWP and accepted. So if Mr and Mrs H had gone on their 
holiday against the medical advice of Mrs Hs GP she would have had limited cover and no 
cover for medical expenses for her disclosed condition if needed. On the other hand if they 
didnt travel, they would lose out on their deposit. 
Mr and Mrs H were therefore left in a very difficult position. I am satisfied that in these 
circumstances it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to meet their claim for cancellation. 
Cancellation claims are limited to £5000 in their policy, so I dont require AWP to pay more 
than this. However this position could have been taken earlier, so I do require AWP to pay 
interest.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to
Meet the cancellation claim by paying Mr and Mrs H £5000
Pay simple interest on this sum at 8% from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman