DRN-3592152
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that she was mis-sold a level term assurance policy by Aluna Life Ltd.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs R was sold the policy by a broker Ill call Q. Q has now ceased trading but it was 
part of Aluna Life Ltd. For simplicity in this decision I shall just refer to Aluna Life. Mrs R says 
that she was told at the time of sale that she would be able to increase the sum assured on 
the policy after one year. She has said that she was given the same information by the policy 
provider, but in this decision Im only looking at the actions of Aluna Life.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld  she didnt find that Aluna 
Life Ltd had done anything wrong.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail 
than Mrs R. Im not going to respond to every single point made - no discourtesy is intended 
by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the key issue here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why.
There is limited information from the sale, and its unfortunate that I havent been able to 
listen to the sales call. Nevertheless I have to decide what I find is more likely than not to 
have happened. It is clear that Mrs R was sold a policy that was affordable for her. Although 
it didnt provide full protection for her mortgage, this would have come at a greater cost. 
Accordingly I dont find that the policy was unsuitable for her needs on this basis.
Mrs R was disappointed to discover that she couldnt increase cover the following year 
without starting a new policy. She had understood that she would be able to increase cover 
on her existing policy. There does seem to have been some confusion here  but on the 
evidence before me I cant say that Aluna Life is responsible for that or mis-led Mrs R. Mrs R 
says the advisers were not professional and were scammers. Ive thought carefully about 
her comments given her strength of feeling about the matter. 
However Aluna Life has said its advisers were experienced and trained to sell life assurance. 
There were no staff working there that this didnt apply to. It seems very unlikely therefore 
that the adviser would have told Mrs R something that was incorrect and at odds with the 
documentation that she later received from the policy provider. 
I note too Mrs Rs comments that she was called after the sale, but this doesnt lead to me 
conclude that the life policy was mis-sold to her. 
Mrs R has now cancelled the policy. As I dont find on the evidence before me that Aluna 
Life treated Mrs R unfairly or mis-sold the policy to her, there is no basis for me to require it 
to refund the premiums that she paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman