DRN-3546407
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
mis-sold a unit linked whole of life policy because it was unsuitable based on their needs, 
objectives and attitude to risk.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P met with an advisor from Sun Life in November 1988. Based on the 
recommendation, they took out a unit linked whole of life policy for the dual purpose of 
providing family protection and saving to fund their childrens future education. It provided a 
sum assured of £129,480 payable on a first death basis. The premium was initially £40 per 
month which was set to increase 10% each year for the first five years. The policy also 
provided additional death benefit (ADB) of £64,740 and waiver of premium benefit (WOP). 
In 2021, Mr and Mrs Ps representative complained to Sun Life that the policy was mis-sold. 
The representative said the adviser did not assess Mr and Mrs Ps attitude to risk but 
recommended they invest in funds which were too high risk. They also stated it was never 
viable that the plan would enable them to pay for the education of their children and that Sun 
Life didnt discuss other options. 
Sun Life responded in May 2021. They upheld the complaint explaining they couldnt see the 
adviser had explained the risks associated with the investment element and hadnt 
discussed other options for saving. Also, that Mr and Mrs P didnt have sufficient emergency 
savings. However, they said Mr and Mrs P did have a need for the life cover, the ADB and 
WOP. They offered to refund the premiums minus the cost of the suitable benefits and add 
interest. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and their representative asked our service to investigate 
the complaint. They didnt agree there was a need for life cover and so felt the offer made by 
Sun Life wasnt reasonable. The Investigator issued her view and explained why she felt Sun 
Lifes offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The representative didnt agree with the Investigators findings. In summary, he said the offer 
wasnt reasonable as Sun Life intended to deduct the cost of benefits to date. The fact find 
said very clearly the life cover was required to protect the children who at the time were aged 
two and five. Therefore, deducting the cost of cover over 33 years wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable as the youngest child would be independent after 16 years. Sun Life should only 
deduct the cost of the cover for 16 years and make a full refund beyond this time.
As Mr and Mrs P didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sun Life have already accepted the evidence doesnt demonstrate the recommendation to 
invest in the unit linked policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps objective to save money. This 
was in respect of their attitude to risk, alternative lower risk saving options and having 
sufficient emergency funds in place. I note this hasnt been disputed by Mr and Mrs Ps 
representative. 
Im in agreement with what has been said about the recommendation to take out a unit 
linked whole of life policy being unsuitable. Sun Life made an offer to put things right but said 
they would deduct life cover, ADP and WOP from the refund of premiums. 
The representative disputes that Mr and Mrs P had a need for indefinite life cover. He said 
the fact find clearly showed they wanted protection for their dependants. So, he argues they 
only needed the cover to run for the period in which their children were likely to be 
dependent. 
I should say that this policy was sold in 1988 and there is limited paperwork given the 
amount of time which has now passed. Sun Life have also confirmed they have provided us 
with paperwork in the best condition they can. Unfortunately, this includes handwritten 
documents which have faded and some of the information has become illegible. Therefore, I 
have based my decision on the information I do have and what Im persuaded is more likely 
in the circumstances. 
Ive reviewed the fact find and I can see the advisor made a record of Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances including income and expenditure, as well as liabilities (mortgage and credit). 
The advisor also recorded information about Mr and Mrs Ps objectives and needs. In 
respect of Mr and Mrs Ps priorities, the advisor noted they wanted protection for their 
dependants. This is reiterated in the additional information section.
However, Ive also considered the recommendation form and what I can read of its contents. 
I can see the advisor confirmed Mr and Mrs P wanted to provide an amount of life cover:
to protect himself, his wife and family in the event of either of their deaths together 
with investment throughout the whole of life 
Although it seems protection for dependants was a key priority for Mr and Mrs P, it doesnt 
exclude that they may also have wanted cover for the duration of their life. And it seems from 
the advisors recommendation that the duration of the policy was discussed, and Mr and Mrs 
P did want cover indefinitely.
I do have limited information about the reasons why Mr and Mrs P may have wanted cover 
for life on a first death basis. There are parts in the recommendation section Im unable to 
read. However, I do have to bear in mind that they were married, and the policy would 
enable provision for the surviving spouse. 
Additionally, Mr and Mrs P kept the policy in place for at least 33 years. This indicates they 
wanted the protection for a longer period of time and that it was affordable. They could have 
surrendered it sooner if they felt there was no need for the policy, and they would have 
received a surrender value. I understand Mr and Mrs P also had concerns about the 
surrender value. However, I would say the surrender value is usually less than the amount of 
premiums paid in because it is the amount paid when the policy is terminated and isnt the 
same as a cash value.
 
The ADB and WOP were also benefits attached to the life cover. As mentioned, I cant read 
the full recommendation section. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me these 
options were unsuitable. Like the life cover, the ADB provided protection in the event of accidental death and WOP provided cover in the event Mr and Mrs P were unable to pay 
premiums. And theyve had the benefit of knowing they had this protection in place for the 
duration of the policy. 
Overall, the recommendation for the unit linked whole of life policy wasnt suitable in the 
circumstances. Sun Life should put this right. However, it seems there was a need for life 
cover, ADB and WOP and Mr and Mrs P have had the benefit of knowing theyve had 
protection for the duration of the policy. Also, they were covered during this period if it was 
necessary to make a claim. 
Putting things right
The recommendation to invest in unit linked funds was not suitable. In light of this, Ive 
considered whats been said by the parties and the evidence provided and Im content Sun 
Lifes offer is a fair and reasonable one. 
Therefore, Sun Life should: 
- Refund the premiums Mr and Mrs P have paid on the plan so far minus the cost of 
suitable benefits (life cover, ADB and WOP).
- Add 15% simple interest per year until 1 April 1993.
- Add 8% simple interest thereafter and up to the date of settlement. 
- Sun Life may also be obliged to deduct income tax from the final interest award. If 
this is the case, Sun Life will need to provide a Certificate of Tax Deducted to Mr and 
Mrs P. 
Im satisfied this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I wont be asking 
Sun Life to do anything further. 
This is because Ive concluded the life cover, ADB and WOP were suitable, and Mr and Mrs 
P have had the benefit of this protection. Therefore, its reasonable for the cost of this cover 
to be deducted from the refund of premiums. 
Also, Mr and Mrs P confirmed they would have saved for their children. But I cant be certain 
from the evidence Ive seen what exactly they would have done differently had they had the 
funds or what might have been recommended to them. However, I can say theyve been 
deprived of these funds and the interest added to the settlement payment suitably reflects 
their loss of opportunity here. 
Its unclear whether Mr and Mrs P have already cancelled the policy. However, Sun Life 
provided the option of keeping the policy in place until the next review date. If Mr and Mrs P 
did want to keep the policy in place, then its reasonable for the surrender value to be 
deducted from the settlement.  
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
should put things right in the way described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 Laura Dean
Ombudsman