DRN-3247848
The complaint
Mr B complains about the settlement offered by The Equine and Livestock Insurance 
Company Limited trading as The Insurance Emporium (ELICO) when he made a claim on a 
bicycle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B insured a bicycle with ELICO. When it was stolen, he made a claim on the policy. In 
settlement of the claim, ELICO offered £799. Mr B said this was inadequate. He said he had 
added New for Old cover to his policy and a replacement would cost £1199. He said hed 
received a discount on the price when he originally bought the bike for £799 and since then 
the price of the same make and model had increased.
ELICO rejected Mr Bs complaint. It said that hed declared the value of the bike as £799 
when he took out the policy and the terms and conditions of the policy meant that it wouldnt 
pay more than £799 in settlement of the claim. Mr B referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that ELICOs settlement offer was fair. Mr B didnt agree and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is to consider the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. In the section 
about the New for Old cover, it says IMPORTANT NOTE: It is your responsibility to ensure 
the sum insured on your policy schedule for your bicycle is enough to replace it as new. If 
the amount is insufficient at the time of any loss or damage New for Old cover will not apply 
and the maximum amount payable will be the market value up to the sum insured. 
Theres also an exclusion which says New for Old cover wont apply if your bicycle sum 
insured as shown in your policy schedule is less than the replacement value of bicycle.
I think the above conditions are clear in requiring that the sum insured on the policy is 
sufficient to cover the replacement cost of a new bicycle. Im also satisfied that the policy 
terms and conditions arent vague and the importance of the sum insured being sufficient is 
suitably highlighted within the terms and conditions.
Theres no dispute that on the policy schedule the sum insured is £799. It seems fair to me 
to say that, in order for the New for Old cover to apply here, the replacement cost of Mr Bs 
bicycle would have to be less than (or equal to) this amount. The evidence is that to replace 
the stolen bike would cost significantly more.
It seems to be accepted that the sum insured which is listed on the policy schedule has been 
taken from the value given by Mr B when he took out the policy. He purchased the policy 
through a price comparison website and Ive been provided a screenshot of the questions 
asked, which confirms that hed have been asked for the value of the bike, rather than the 
purchase price. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr B was asked to provide the 
purchase price when he took out the policy.
I accept that Mr B could potentially have mis-interpreted this question as asking for the 
purchase price. I cant see that the question asked him for the replacement cost, or gave any 
guidance on how he could estimate the value. I think in the circumstances he could have 
understood the question as asking him how much hed paid for the bike. I think it would be 
reasonable for him to have answered the question in the way he did.
However, after he purchased the insurance, Mr B was provided with the policy terms and 
conditions and schedule. As Ive highlighted above, Im satisfied from these that he would (or 
should) have been aware that the sum insured was £799 and that the New for Old cover 
wouldnt extend to a replacement bike if the sum insured was insufficient to cover the cost of 
that replacement. I think the evidence suggests he was aware that £799 wouldnt be enough 
to purchase a replacement of the same make and model. 
Having received information which would reasonably have led him to conclude that he had 
an inadequate sum insured, I think its fair to say Mr B could have contacted ELICO to 
understand his options. He didnt do so.
In correspondence with our service after our investigator gave her opinion, Mr B referred to 
having provided ELICO with a receipt or invoice which showed the full value of the bike 
(before a discount was applied bringing the price paid down to £799) as part of the 
insurance purchase. Weve checked with ELICO and have been told that the first time it was 
provided any receipt was during the claims process, and no receipt or invoice was required 
as part of the sales and policy inception process. 
Mr B also refers to a phone call in which it was indicated that the receipt hed provided 
should be sufficient to allow a settlement for the full value to be made. I havent had access 
to this call but dont consider it to be relevant to my decision. Even by Mr Bs own account, 
he wasnt promised a settlement to the value he was seeking, and the terms and conditions 
Ive mentioned before are clear in my opinion about the limitations of cover.
Im satisfied that ELICO acted fairly in making the offer it did. The sum insured by Mr B on 
the policy was insufficient to cover a replacement of the same make and model of bike. Its a 
specific term of the policy that the sum insured is sufficient for this.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman