DRN-4066307
The complaint
Mr S complains that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr S applied for and received a loan of £3,500 from UK Credit. It was to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £156.45. He told UK Credit he wanted to repay an 
existing loan with a different lender on which he was paying a higher rate of interest, and 
have a few hundred pounds left over for Christmas. UK Credit agreed the loan. In 
February 2022, Mr S complained to UK Credit. He said he shouldnt have been given the 
loan as it was unaffordable.
UK Credit looked into his complaint. It said it carried out its usual checks based on the 
information Mr S provided and it had no concerns about his ability to afford the loan. It 
pointed out that it had refinanced a loan Mr S had with a different provider, but at a lower 
interest rate and had reduced his outgoings as a result. It rejected his complaint.
Mr S disagreed and referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
felt UK Credit hadnt done enough to check Mr S would be able to make the payments 
sustainably over the life of the loan, in part because it had included overtime in his income. 
She said UK Credit ought to have asked more questions to obtain a better understanding of 
Mr Ss financial circumstances. Our investigator asked Mr S to provide bank statements from 
the time and, having reviewed those, she said UK Credit ought to have refused to lend to 
him.
Mr S accepted what our investigator said, but UK Credit didnt. As there was no agreement,
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and dont think Mr Ss complaint should be
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website 
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered
this approach when deciding this complaint. UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable
and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr S irresponsibly. I think there
are key questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint:
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
UK Credit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about UK Credit assessing the likelihood 
of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on him. The fact 
that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the 
guarantor instead of Mr S doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
UK Credit assessed Mr Ss application in line with its usual process. That means it checked 
his credit file, spoke to him about his income and expenditure and obtained evidence it felt it 
needed to support what hed told it.
In this instance, Mr Ss credit file showed hed been late to make payments to his mobile 
phone provider on a few occasions in the last couple of years. He explained to UK Credit 
that hed been having problems getting the provider to set up a direct debit. His file shows 
that while he had been up to three months in arrears, hed caught up at various times, but 
was currently one month behind. Given that UK Credit specialise in lending to people with an 
impaired credit rating, I dont think this  with the explanation given by Mr S  will have 
caused it any great concerns as he was up to date with his other commitments.
Mr Ss credit file also showed the loan he was seeking to repay. It was the third loan in the 
space of a year or so. This may have caused UK Credit to look a little closer at whether Mr S 
was able to pay the new loan sustainably. But the loan to be repaid, was for the same 
amount - £3,500  but with repayments of £170 over the same term rather than the £156 
UK Credit offered. This shows Mr S was paying a higher rate of interest with the previous 
provider and supports what hed told UK Credit. As that loan had been running for a few 
months, there was a small amount of extra money being advanced by UK Credit  around 
£150 - £200. But as Mr S was up to date with that loan it appeared to be affordable for him 
and I can understand why it didnt raise any particular concerns with UK Credit.
UK Credit asked Mr S to provide a payslip to support the level of income hed declared on 
his application; hed told them he earned in the region of £1,800 per month. He provided a 
weekly payslip showing £430  in line with what hed declared. The payslip included 
overtime of £150 before tax. UK Credit asked Mr S about the overtime to understand 
whether it was regular. He explained hed been with his employer for 15 weeks and had 
always worked 50 hours a week. Mr S said he expected that to continue. UK Credit accepted 
what Mr S said in that regard, but still reduced his income in its calculation to just under 
£1,500.
UK Credit asked Mr S about his expenditure. He explained his partner paid half the rent and 
the bills. UK Credit used his figures for his weekly rent, and used information produced by 
the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to provide an average household expenditure based 
on his circumstances and dependants. It also took into account other commitments showing 
on Mr Ss credit file  such as hire purchase for his car and a credit card. UK Credit 
calculated that after all his declared expenditure and based on its reduced figure of income, 
he had around £115 per month surplus after the cost of the new loan. It felt therefore, that 
the loan was affordable for Mr S provided he repaid the previous loan as planned.
For the reasons Ive set out, I think the checks carried out by UK Credit were reasonable and 
proportionate based on the information it found, and Mr S had provided. In this instance, I see no reason for UK Credit to have doubted what Mr S had told it or for it to have asked him 
for further information.
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think the checks UK Credit carried out were reasonable 
and proportionate. I think it was entitled to rely on the information it found and Mr S had 
shared. It follows that I think it reached a fair lending decision.
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. This includes a conversation in October 2018 when Mr S says he was having 
difficulty meeting the due date for the payments as hed recently become self-employed. He 
confirmed at the time however, that he could afford the loan, it was just the change in dates 
on which he was paid that was the issue. UK Credit agreed to change the due dates to help 
him. Ive seen nothing which suggests UK Credit has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr S in some other way.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but for the reasons Ive set 
out I dont intend to uphold his complaint. If hes still finding it difficult to repay the loan, he 
should contact UK Credit to discuss the situation. I would remind UK Credit of its obligation 
to treat Mr S fairly.
UK Credit accepted my provisional decision, but Mr S didnt. He explained his guarantor had 
made a lot of the repayments so far and he couldnt afford them without his overtime. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has said. Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint him, 
but it doesnt change my decision. 
The loan offered by UK Credit largely refinanced a loan he had already, lowering his 
repayments and the interest payable. If it hadnt agreed the loan, Mr Ss position may well 
have been worse than it is currently. So for that reason, I dont think hes suffered a financial 
loss as a result of this loan having been agreed. Furthermore, he was able to make 
repayments for the first six months or so before he became self-employed. It seems this 
change in circumstances may well have contributed to his financial struggles.
I think UK Credit was entitled to rely on the information it received from him at the time of the 
application, and its checks to verify that information on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate.
As I did in my provisional decision, I remind UK Credit of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly in 
coming to an agreement regarding the remaining balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman