DRN-3805153
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined his application for an overdraft.
What happened
Mr L applied for a temporary overdraft of £2,000 on his bank account with Barclays. That 
application was declined, with Barclays saying it hadnt met the required internal credit 
score. Mr L appealed the decision, and after an underwriters review of the application the 
appeal was also declined  with Barclays saying there was evidence of high interest external 
borrowing within the previous 12 months.
Mr L raised a complaint, as he couldnt understand why he had been turned down for the 
facility when he had a healthy amount of disposable income and a clear credit file. He added 
that he hadnt taken any high interest borrowing in the last 12 months, so didnt think the 
reason Barclays had given was correct. Mr L was planning to buy his first home and worried 
there was something recorded externally that might affect future applications for credit. In its 
response Barclays maintained it had acted in line with its lending policy, so Mr L referred the 
matter to our service for review. 
Barclays told our investigator its risk assessment system had picked up on a payment being 
received from a payday lender within the 12 months before the overdraft request. The bank 
explained this could indicate financial difficulty and so lending would pose a much higher 
risk. Barclays also said its underwriter had commented the repayment source given by Mr L 
during the application was an upcoming tax rebate  which it didnt class as a guaranteed 
source of income. Both of those factors had contributed to Barclays declining the facility, 
though the bank added that its automated risk assessment system may have picked up 
other entries it considered were a risk to offering the lending facility to Mr L. 
An investigator here thought the complaint should be upheld. His investigation showed that 
the evidence of high interest external borrowing within the previous 12 months was in fact 
an £8 redress payment made by the administrator of a payday lender that had gone bust 
many years earlier. Ge didnt find any other evidence of recent high-cost borrowing in Mr Ls 
bank statements or credit report. The investigator also listened to the information given by 
Mr L at the point of application and disagreed the tax rebate was given as the repayment 
source  though it was discussed. In his view, the information given showed Mr L had 
sufficient disposable income, and suggested he would be able to afford the facility. 
The investigator thought Barclays hadnt satisfactorily explained the reasons for the decline, 
so he didnt agree the bank had acted fairly  and recommended £200 compensation for the 
worry caused to Mr L. Barclays didnt accept the investigators view, and said it reserved the 
right to decline any application for lending it felt didnt meet its responsible lending criteria. 
The bank asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter, so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reviewed everything, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint  and for much the 
same reasons given by the investigator. I also find the award recommended by the 
investigator amounts to fair compensation in the circumstances. Ive explained why below.
Like most lenders, Barclays uses an automated credit scoring algorithm to help it apply its 
lending policy and process applications quickly. But this algorism isnt the lending policy, it 
just flags potential risk indicators to the bank to help it make lending decisions in line with its 
policy. Barclays has said it reserves the right to decline any application for lending it feels 
does not meet its responsible lending criteria, even if the borrowing is seemingly affordable. 
The bank is of course free to set its own parameters on what level of risk it is willing to 
accept  but I have to be satisfied that it has treated its customer fairly and reasonably when 
assessing an application for borrowing. So Barclays needs to be able to show me it has fairly 
applied its lending policy. It cant reject an application for no reason.
When Mr Ls application was initially run through the automated risk assessment system, it 
picked up on a potential indication from Mr Ls bank account that high-cost lending had been 
taken in the previous 12 months  and so declined it for that reason. Its reasonable that 
Barclays lending policy deems those that have taken high-cost credit recently a risk for 
further lending, as that activity could be an indication of financial difficulty. But the 
transaction in question wasnt evidence of recent high-cost lending  it was a credit for £8, 
from a payday lender that had gone into administration more than three years prior. So Im 
not persuaded Barclays acted in line with its own lending policy, or treated Mr L fairly, when 
it declined his application on that basis (particularly following a review from an underwriter). 
Barclays later argued that another reason the application had been declined was the 
repayment source given  and said a tax rebate wasnt a guaranteed source of income. Its 
reasonable that Barclays wont lend in circumstances where the repayment source isnt 
guaranteed  any lending has to be affordable in a sustainable way. But having listened to 
the call during which the application was made, Mr L didnt give the tax rebate as the source 
of repayment  though it being late was the reason he was seeking the added security of an 
overdraft. So I find Barclays didnt act in line with its lending policy, or treat Mr L fairly, when 
it declined the application for that reason.  
Having reviewed Mr Ls bank statements and credit report its clear he had sufficient 
disposable income (more each month than the overdraft amount he was seeking) and a 
clear credit file  with no evidence of existing debts elsewhere at the time of the application. I 
appreciate most months he spends what he has  but I can also see he invests large 
amounts each month, and a lot of the spending is on leisure activities that could easily be 
moderated if needed. So Im persuaded the borrowing would likely have been affordable. 
I accept it could be reasonable for Barclays to have declined the application for not meeting 
another of its responsible lending criteria, even if the borrowing seemed affordable. But, after 
the pervious reasons given were debunked, the bank hasnt been able to explain why it 
declined the lending  except to, effectively, say the computer may have had other reasons. 
I cant accept that as proof Mr Ls application was assessed fairly, particularly given the 
algorithm has been shown to be fallible. Barclays ultimately doesnt seem to know why it 
declined Mr Ls application for an overdraft, and so Im not persuaded it applied its own 
lending policy correctly here or treated him fairly. 
Mr L has described his worry about being declined for the overdraft and not knowing why. I 
can understand why he would have been concerned that something was recorded 
somewhere which might also affect a future mortgage application. I wouldnt necessarily 
expect a business to go into lots of detail around the reasons for deciding not to lend, as the various risk parameters it sets would be commercially sensitive and open to manipulation if 
known. But the fact that Barclays cant explain it to us would naturally leave a lingering doubt 
over what happened. Mr L has speculated that Barclays discriminated against him in some 
way, which is why it has been evasive with its explanations. But I havent seen any evidence 
thats the case here. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr L has told us about the effect this has had on him  but 
Im not persuaded the practical or emotional impact falls into the range hes indicated, or is 
commensurate with the published examples illustrating that level of compensation. He no 
longer needs the overdraft  and whilst he might have wanted the security of having it at the 
time, he was able to manage without undue hardship. Mr L was also pretty sure Barclays 
had made a mistake, and us issuing our findings a short time after he referred things to our 
service has helped to limit the length of time any concern was experienced. I dont doubt he 
was worried and frustrated, but I consider an award of £200 fairly compensates the impact.   
Putting things right
For the worry and frustration Barclays errors caused Mr L, bearing in mind our published 
guidance on making awards for distress or inconvenience, I consider £200 to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances. I will also be directing the bank to remove any internal 
and external records (for instance, with the Credit Reference Agencies) of the application, 
given Im not satisfied it was assessed fairly  to ensure it doesnt influence future lending 
decisions. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ls complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC, and direct the 
bank to:
pay him £200 compensation; and
remove all internal and external records of the application.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman