DRN-3600459
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains about difficulties using internet banking at Clydesdale Bank 
Plc and that it couldnt make payments.
What happened
M is part of a business grouping with one other limited company - Ill anonymise here as 
company MO - and several firms. Access to the bank accounts online for these businesses 
was being co-ordinated through the director who represents the business grouping in this 
complaint. 
In 2020 he realised that any payments made using online banking were showing in the 
narrative as being made by one of the firms. So, this raised an issue about the source of the 
funds for a transaction. There was a lead firm that brought a complaint about this and was 
paid £200 in compensation for not being told about the issue and as an initial response 
hadnt addressed its concerns. 
The director then tried to migrate all the businesses to a new internet banking system. He 
was unhappy with the administration involved and that access to the system for all 
businesses was lost for a period and not all the firms were added. He wanted company MO 
to be the lead business on the system. As there were issues a further complaint was raised 
this time in the name of MO. Clydesdale considered the overall issues with the business 
grouping and paid MO £300 in compensation.
M raised a further complaint because it seemed in error to have been made the lead 
business for internet banking and when this was altered was unable to make online 
payments. It raised this with Clydesdale and in the meantime had to make payments by 
CHAPS which caused further administration and not all its payees accepted payments in this 
way. It made eight such payments at a cost of £25 and Clydesdale had refunded five of 
them. It also paid M £100 in compensation. 
Our investigator considered Ms complaint separately. He recommended that Clydesdale 
refund the three further CHAPS fees with simple interest of eight percent on the refunds to 
the date they were made. And pay M a further £100 in compensation. He said that the 
issues with the payees started in 2018 when there was a system update. Due to changing 
over M hadnt had access to online banking from 12 November 2020 to 17 November 2020. 
And M had to manually add some of its payees after it migrated. It couldnt make payments 
online from 26 March to 2 June 2021. And Clydesdale hadnt responded to all of Ms 
questions. He could only consider points covered in the final response and not ongoing 
issues.
Clydesdale agreed to pay the further compensation. M didnt agree. It said that it had 
documented the time spent on dealing with the problems. It didnt think that the 
recommended compensation was any sanction for Clydesdale. It was more interested in 
things happening which would make a difference. M felt its time following this up had been 
wasted and only added to its loss.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2022 and detail below what I said.
I needed to set out first how Id approaching this complaint. As I stated above this is one of 
three complaints for the same business group. But these have been dealt with by Clydesdale 
as I understood it by the main business entity that brought each one. The issues are clearly 
overlapping. But I thought its reasonable to think that dealing say with access to internet 
banking had common issues across all businesses and that the compensation reflects the 
actions in the main of each lead business dealing with a particular issue. 
We provide informal dispute resolution and we dont regulate business processes. And if, as 
it seems here, systems changes removed some functionality we wouldnt be asking that it be 
restored. We would look at how that was communicated, and any changes handled. In terms 
of any awards our role isnt to be punitive but to reflect what happened. 
I looked here at the complaint by M. I am looking separately at the complaints by MO and 
the firm. 
In this complaint I want to highlight in particular the following specific impacts for M as part of 
the service issues:
- That M had to manually input a number of its payees when the system was changed.
- M had no access to online payments for an extended period of time. It had to make 
CHAPS payments resulting in further administration.
The points about the change to online banking and the way this was communicated and the 
process for migrating all businesses are being considered under the complaints by the firm 
and MO to avoid duplication. I took the view as I will explain that the resolution for MO dealt 
with the overall impact for the business group. It is a matter for that group to decide how to 
disperse that if it wants to.
my assessment
I agreed with our investigator that the three other CHAPS fees should be refunded. I took 
into account the additional work involved in processing all those payments. And the evidence 
about M following this issue up in live chats with Clydesdale. I thought M should also be 
awarded £25 to recognise its own administrative costs of each such payment (so £200) and 
a further £150 for inconvenience which also includes dealing with missing payees making 
£350. I noted that Clydesdale has already paid £100 which should be deducted in calculating 
the net further amount.
I appreciated that the director wants any action to have more of an impact for Clydesdale. Id 
explained that this isnt our role. I thought that this compensation in light of my separate 
assessment for MO and the firm fairly compensates M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale said it accepted my decision.The representative of both M and the other two complainants made some further comments. 
These were grouped as general and specific.
General
The internet linked accounts facility worked perfectly well from 2006 to 2018. It was only 
when the changes were made that the failures occurred. There were none when these were 
first linked in 2006.
The decisions are written as if the representative had decided which entities complained 
about which issues. That was something Clydesdale decreed.
In terms of the general points I recognised that the problems arose due to the systems 
change in 2018. I also accept that Clydesdale chose how to respond to the complaints and 
decided which was the main business entity each time. I have had to issue separate 
decisions for the different legal entities.
Specific
The representative wanted confirmation that some specific points had been taken into 
account and if not asked that they could be. 
I am going to deal with the following specific comment under the complaint for M. This is that 
in order to gain remote access to the account telephone banking was restarted which 
required a token and this wasnt issued on first request. And that the daily payment limit was 
reduced hugely without warning.
In considering this complaint I can confirm that I have taken into account everything that the 
representative has said. And in particular he had produced a timeline of events in a detailed 
document and had highlighted which points related to which complainant. It wasnt practical 
or in my view necessary to detail every issue in my provisional decision and I formed my 
own view about what was reasonable.
I note that the document set out that on 30 January 2021 the payment limit had been 
reduced to £500 and that the old payment token that had a higher limit no longer functioned. 
A new one was to be posted out, but it wasnt done and had to be chased a week later. 
Telephone banking, a system that hadnt been used for 20 years, had to be brought in.
Having reviewed everything again I remain of the view that the compensation for M is 
reasonable for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. So, I wont be departing from 
that.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc to:
1) Refund the three CHAPS payments of £25.
2) Pay eight percent simple interest from the date each of the items in 1 was applied to 
the date of settlement.3) Pay M £250 in compensation (in addition to the £100 already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman