DRN-3873360
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) turned down 
a claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
Mulsanne is the underwriter of this policy i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of another company who acts as its agent. As Mulsanne has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to Mulsanne includes 
the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr T was involved in an accident where he lost control of his car and crashed 
into a barrier. This rendered his car a total loss and Mr T made a claim under his policy to 
Mulsanne. 
The car was recovered and put in storage. Mulsannes engineer inspected the car in June, 
over a month after the accident. Mr T said he had called Mulsanne a few times in the 
meantime but was told the handlers were not able to locate his file. He said he was 
apprehensive about the car being left with a third-party company for such a long time and 
was concerned it might be crushed or tampered with.
Mr T said Mulsanne made him an offer for the market value of his car which he felt was too 
low. Mulsanne asked him to send adverts of similar cars which he said he provided, along 
with other documents, by July 2022. 
Mr T said he was chasing for updates until, in August 2022, Mulsanne told him that it would 
be rejecting his claim. It said he had breached his policy by not making sure his car was in a 
roadworthy condition and that this caused or contributed to the accident. Specifically it said 
that the tread on one of his car tyres was below the legal limit. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said the tyre was not below the limit when the car had its MOT (a 
Ministry of Transport safety test). He said Mulsanne had already said it would cover the 
claim and hadnt mentioned anything about the car being unroadworthy at the time. Mr T 
added that the car had been with a third-party company from the day it was recovered and 
had not had any work done to it. He questioned whether it could have been modified during 
that period. And he also asked whether it was possible the tyre was damaged as a result of 
the car being moved. 
Mulsanne checked with one of its engineers who said that the tyre in question was near its 
limit when the car had its MOT in October 2021 and that the car had covered 12,000 miles 
since. Mulsanne didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint and said that the damage to the tyre was not 
as a result of it being moved. Mr T had provided an invoice to show that a tyre had been 
changed in March 2022, but Mulsanne said the invoice didnt say specifically which tyre that 
was. 
Mr T wasnt happy and complained to us. He said he wanted Mulsanne to pay him £32,000 
for the market value of the car and also compensation for being without his vehicle over 
several months. Our Investigator who reviewed the complaint ultimately didnt think it should 
be upheld. He said he had seen no evidence to show that the specific tyre had been 
replaced after the MOT. And the only evidence available was Mulsannes engineers 
evidence when the car was inspected which showed that the tyre was below the legal limit.
 
Mr T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Among other things he said the 
tyre that was on the car when he was driving it is not the same as the tyre that was on the 
car when Mulsanne inspected it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T and I understand that he is currently going through a difficult time, for 
reasons not relevant to this complaint. I will explain below why, in the particular 
circumstances and based on the evidence I have seen, I dont think Mulsanne has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with this claim. 
I also appreciate that Mr T has raised a number of points with us and with Mulsanne over the 
course of his complaint. I have considered them all but in this decision I will refer to the ones 
I consider to be the most important. 
Mt Ts policy says that the car must be in a roadworthy condition. It goes on to say that if an 
incident happens where the insured fails to protect the car from loss or damage and where 
the condition of the car, caused or contributed to the accident, no cover will be provided 
under the policy.
Mulsannes engineer inspected Mr Ts car in June 2022 just over a month after the incident. 
He said that the left rear tyre tread was below the legal limit and provided photographs with 
measurements which show the tread was between 0.39mm and 1.25mm against a limit of 
1.6mm. He also said that the tyre may have contributed to the handling of the vehicle and 
led to the accident. I appreciate that Mr T feels that the reason for the accident was another 
tyre which burst but this goes against the expert evidence of an engineer which I think 
carries more weight. For this reason, I think it was fair and reasonable for Mulsanne to rely 
on the evidence of its engineer who is an expert in this area.
Mr T disputes that the tyre tread was below the legal limit at the time of the accident. He said 
the car was with a third-party company for weeks before it was inspected by Mulsanne. 
During that time someone could have tampered with it or, in any event, that the tyre at the 
time of the inspection was not the same as the tyre that was on the car at the time of the 
accident. I have considered Mr Ts point but without any evidence to support this it is difficult 
for me to conclude that, on balance, this is what happened. 
Mr T also questioned whether the tyre could have been damaged when it was moved after 
the accident, but Mulsanne said if that had been the case the damage would have been to 
one area rather than all over. I accept Mulsannes logic and in any event without any 
evidence to support that, on balance, this particular tyre was damaged for that reason, it is 
not possible for me to say that is most likely what happened. 
Mr T provided an invoice to show that a tyre had been changed in March 2022, two months 
before the accident. As Mulsanne has pointed out the invoice does not show which tyre that 
was. And, for this reason, I cant take it into consideration. Mr T provided photographs of his car which he says were taken outside his house. One of 
the photographs shows that the tyre brand is different to the one that was on the car when it 
was inspected. But the tyre in the photograph is also a different brand to the tyre in the 
invoice he provided. Mr T says the tyre in the photograph was the old tyre before it was 
changed in March 2022  so I dont think this photograph is helpful evidence.
Mr T also provided a photograph which shows the specific tyre being changed but as there is 
no date on the photograph it is not possible to say when this happened so, again, I cant take 
this into consideration. He also provided a photograph of the car being valeted which shows 
some tread on the tyre. Again without a date, though I note Mr T says this was shortly before 
the accident, it is not possible for me to take this into consideration. And it is also difficult to 
tell whether the tread is above or below the legal limit in the photograph. 
This means that the only persuasive evidence available to me as to the state of the tyre is 
the engineers evidence provided a month after the accident which shows that the tyre is 
virtually without tread. I appreciate the point Mr T is making that this doesnt show the state 
of the tyre at the time of the accident but this is the best evidence I have (in terms of the fact 
that it is dated, it has photographs and measurements) of the tyres condition near the time 
of the accident. And based on this evidence I think, on balance, its most likely that the tyre 
tread was below the legal limit at the time of the accident. 
It follows that I think it is fair and reasonable that Mulsanne relied on the expert evidence of 
its engineer who said that the tyre tread being below the legal limit and that this could have 
contributed to the accident. And I think Mulsanne acted in line with its policy terms when it 
decided to reject the claim. 
As I said I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr T. If he is able to 
obtain evidence, not available to him at this time, which shows that the tyre tread was above 
the legal limit at the time of the accident or that the state of the tyre did not contribute to the 
accident he is free to present this to Mulsanne so that it can review the claim again.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman