DRN-2936483
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to him irresponsibly and didnt 
carry out sufficient checks when they increased his credit limit on his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr H was accepted for a credit card by Vanquis in August 2013 with an initial limit of £250. 
The following credit limit increases were then applied:
March 2014 August 2014 January 2015
£500 £1,500 £2,250
 
Mr H then experienced difficulties in making repayments in 2015 and Vanquis sent a Notice 
of Default. Mr Hs account was then passed to a debt collection agency and then the debt 
was sold in 2016. Mr H complained to Vanquis in January 2021 as he felt they didnt carry 
out proper checks. Vanquis responded and explained Mr Hs complaints about the credit 
limit increases were out of time. Our service decided the complaint was in jurisdiction and 
our investigator then looked into the complaint. 
Vanquis said they were able to offer credit limit increases as, by the time the last offer was 
made, all payments had been received in full and on time. Vanquis said the account had 
been managed well and they never noted a heavy reliance on the facility granted. And, 
externally, their credit search showed there were only two occasions when an external debt 
repayment was missed until October 2015. They said the outstanding balance was brought 
to zero in January 2015 after the final increase had been processed. Vanquis said, up to this 
point there had been no indication of financial difficulty, either from the management of the 
card account or from external credit data and they remained satisfied their checks were 
adequate and proportionate to the credit being offered. 
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She thought Vanquis had made a fair lending 
decision in relation to the increased credit limits. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Vanquis carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Vanquis needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information Vanquis may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
Vanquis is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that 
Vanquis, when offering the credit limit increases between February to December 2014, 
consider information from Credit Reference Agencies which includes Mr Hs external debt 
and months since last default. They also take into account information on how Mr H is 
performing against his credit card account. 
I think the checks carried out by Vanquis are reasonable and proportionate as they take into 
account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would reasonably 
expect because they would help Vanquis to not only build a picture of Mr Hs financial 
situation, but also to assist in determining whether he could repay the credit in a sustainable 
way. 
  
The next point Ive considered is whether Vanquis made a fair lending decision bearing in 
mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Hs circumstances. To help 
decide this, Ive looked at how Mr H was performing against this account over the period the 
credit limit increases are applied. In the 15-month period between the account opening and 
the final credit limit increase, Mr H pays more than the minimum payment on each month.       
I can see regular payments are made with no late fees being charged in this period. The 
monthly payments being made are also generally higher than the interest payment for that 
month. This shows that the payments are going towards the capital and not just the monthly 
interest which has accrued. And, on a number of occasions, the payments made are 
significantly higher than the minimum payment required. For example, in November 2013, 
the minimum payment due is £17.12 and Mr H makes a payment of £243.10. In May 2014, 
the minimum payment due is £24.31 and Mr H makes a payment of £316.49. And, in 
October 2014, the minimum payment due is £37.64 and Mr H makes a payment of £367.39. 
 
Ive looked further into each increase starting from the account opening to see how Mr H 
was managing his account. While Mr Hs credit limit is £250, his statements show he was 
managing his account at around 58% of his credit limit. While Mr Hs credit limit was £500, 
his statements show he was managing his account at around 72% of his credit limit. And, 
while Mr Hs credit limit is £1,500, his statements show he was managing his account at 
around 45% of his credit limit. This shows Mr H was managing his account well below the 
credit limit in place.  
Ive also looked at other factors which Vanquis took into account at the point the credit 
increases were applied. I cant see any information here which I believe shouldve led 
Vanquis to identify that Mr H wouldnt be able to make repayments without undue difficulty 
and wouldnt be able to meet other commitments without having to borrow further. 
While there are two occasions where Mr H appears to have missed a repayment on an 
external account, I cant see there is a pattern here of missed payments or defaults. 
Evidence of numerous arrears can point towards financial difficulty. This might also demonstrate that a consumer wont be able to repay any further borrowing in a sustainable 
manner. So, its important to take these factors into account when deciding whether a 
consumer can sustainably repay any credit. But, I cant see any evidence of numerous 
arrears or defaults leading up to the credit limit increases. I think Vanquis have acted 
reasonably in taking this information into consideration and have acted fairly in deciding to 
increase the credit limits.  
Mr H says there were a lot of cash gambling transactions in quick succession so Vanquis 
lent to him irresponsibly. Mr Hs statements do show payments being made to a gambling 
company around the time he received the credit limit increases although I cant see any 
information which shows that Mr H made Vanquis aware of any gambling problems. I also 
havent seen any evidence which shows that Vanquis did check Mr Hs statements so they 
wouldve been unaware what the credit card was being used for.
Its clear Mr H does experience difficulties later in making repayments but I cant see this 
was down to lending decisions taken by Vanquis. Ive listened to calls between Mr H and 
Vanquis in April 2015 during which Mr H explains hes now on long-term sick and wont be 
able to make the level of repayments he was previously making. Mr H also says he doesnt 
feel he would be in this situation if he was still working. I can see alternative arrangements 
are then discussed with Mr H. So, while I am sorry to learn about the difficulties experienced 
by Mr H, I think this was down to a change in his circumstances which led to a reduction in 
his income  and this isnt something which Vanquis was aware of when offering the credit 
limit increases.     
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this matter as I feel Vanquis made a fair 
decision to lend in respect of the credit limit increases. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman