DRN-4315619
The complaint
Mr S complains that the value of his car dropped due to delays in U K Insurance Limited
(UKI) handing of his claim, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr Ss car was damaged in an accident. UKI arranged for the repairs. The car
was returned to Mr S in late May but there were further problems. Additional repairs
involving a main dealer were required. Eventually the engine had to be replaced. When his
car was returned Mr S noticed a warning light. UKI arranged for an engineer to visit Mr S at
home. But this didnt fix the issue. Mr S arranged for a main dealer to fix the problem and
UKI reimbursed the cost.
Mr S says hed ordered a new car that was delivered in June 2022. However, he couldnt sell
his old car as it was being repaired. He was quoted £80,495 for his car via an online car
buying service at the end of May. But by the end of October, he says the quote had reduced
to £72,285. Mr S says his car wasnt fully repaired until mid-November, which is when he
was able to sell it.
Mr S says he was only able to get £70,000 when he sold his car in November 2022. He
believes UKI is responsible for this financial loss, due to its delays in repairing his car.
UKI says its policy doesnt cover depreciation. It acknowledges it took longer to resolve the
issues with Mr Ss car than it wouldve liked. But it says it has paid him compensation
totalling £700.
Mr S didnt think UKI had treated him fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint in part. He says there were some delays caused by UKI.
And he thought the repairs shouldve been completed in September 2022. He obtained
valuations for Mr Ss car from September and compared this with valuations from mid-
November when the car was sold.
Our investigator thought Mr S sold his car for less than its market value. Based on the
valuations he obtained from September and November 2022 he says UKI should pay Mr S
£353.50 (plus 8% simple interest) to reflect the reduction in value of his car. In addition, he
says it should pay him a further £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it
caused him.
Mr S accepted our investigators view, but UKI didnt. It says Mr S hadnt shown hed
suffered a loss. Because it disagreed it asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold Mr Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him
but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair.
Ive considered the timeline of events since the accident occurred in March 2022. Mr Ss car
was repaired and returned to him by the end of May. I note from his comments that he
doesnt have concerns about the time taken for the first repair. However, further issues came
to light once the car was returned to him. A warning light relating to the vehicles coolant
level was showing and this required further investigation.
The car was returned to UKI, but this problem continued despite a number of attempts to
resolve it. From a record dated in August 2022 I can see Mr S describes three occasions
when he collected his car after it was thought to have been repaired. He says the warning
light returned on each occasion, having driven less than five miles. Because of the ongoing
issues UKI arranged for Mr Ss car to be taken to a main dealer for the remaining repairs.
Mr S says he has an app on his phone that shows the location of his car and when it was
moved. Based on this he says nothing happened with it for around three weeks. I can see
from the records provided, that Mr S contacted UKI on several occasions to chase progress
and complain about the delays hed experienced. In response UKI said it wasnt able to
influence the speed at which the main dealer completed the repairs.
A decision was made to replace the engine in Mr Ss car toward the end of September 2022.
It was then returned to him around a month later towards the end of October. This is when
he noticed another warning light. The records show UKI arranged for an engineer to visit Mr
S at home to investigate. The warning light was switched off by the engineer. Mr S was
asked to contact UKI after hed driven the car for a period, to see if the warning light
returned. It did. Mr S then arranged for his local main dealer, where hed bought the car, to
investigate the matter.
The main dealer was able to fix the problem by replacing a sensor that was bolted to the
engine. Mr Ss car was finally fixed in mid-November 2022.
Having considered the evidence I think its clear that this wasnt a simple repair. In its
submissions to our service UKI refers to parts that were on back order. I also note its
argument that it couldnt influence the time taken by the main dealer to effect the repairs.
After the first unsuccessful repair, efforts were then made to repair the engine. This was the
less expensive approach to that of replacing it. I think its reasonable that this approach was
initially taken. However, this added to the overall repair time.
I think its reasonable that UKI used its approved repairer to carry out repairs initially. I dont
think the issues that were experienced could reasonably have been anticipated. But its fair
that it decided to involve the main dealer when the repairs werent successful.
That said this wasnt Mr Ss fault. UKIs approved repairer had several attempts to fix his car.
This caused delays. The car was also with the main dealer for some time. Albeit this did
involve fairly involved repair work, including a replacement engine. However, even then the
repairs werent entirely successful. This resulted in Mr S arranging the final repair at his local
main dealer.
Mr S did have transport available whilst his car was being repaired. So, he wasnt left without
a car. But it took UKI from March 2022 to November to complete the repairs following his
claim. This was a very long time.Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr S. He contacted UKI and its garage numerous
times to chase progress. This included multiple times when the car was reportedly fixed, but
shortly after collection revealed the same fault. Given the frequency of this happening I think
it wouldve been reasonable for the garage to conduct more robust checks to ensure its
repairs were effective. The garages involved are separate entities from UKI. But ultimately its
UKIs responsibility to arrange effective repairs in a timely manner.
Because of the delays, the frustration and ongoing inconvenience Mr S was caused I think
its fair that UKI pays him compensation. The business said it had paid £700 compensation
for the delays and inconvenience Mr S experienced. Mr S says this was £650. I queried this
with UKI. It responded to confirm it had paid Mr S £700 in total and supplied a screen shot
from its claim records that confirm these payments were made. Im satisfied it has paid £700
compensation. In these circumstances I think this is fair, so I wont ask it to pay more.
Ive thought about Mr Ss view that he suffered a financial loss due to UKIs delay in repairing
his car. Ive seen the online quotes he received in May 2022 and then in October. The latter
quote is around £8,000 lower. Ive also seen the purchase invoice Mr S provided that shows
he sold his car for £70,000 on 14 November.
Ive considered whether Mr S has clearly shown hes suffered a loss, and if this is the case,
whether UKI is solely at fault for this. But I dont think hes shown that he has suffered the
loss he claims.
When we need to establish the market value of a vehicle, usually where a car has been
stolen or considered a total loss, we use the industry trade guides. We think these are a fair
way of establishing the market value at the date of the loss. I can see our investigator
obtained valuations from four of the trade guides for Mr Ss car. The values he obtained
were dated 14 November 2022. This is the date when Mr S sold his car. The average of the
valuations came to £85,187.50.
Based on this Mr S sold his car for far less than it was worth in November 2022. I note his
comments that when he sold his car the website hed previously used was quoting less than
he was able to sell it for. Also, that he tried the main dealer he bought the car from, and it
wasnt interested in buying his car.
Having thought about this, although I dont dispute what Mr S says, the industry trade guides
value Mr Ss car at around £15,000 more than he sold it for. I understand why he believes
UKI caused a loss of around £8,000 based on the online quotes he received. But the trade
guide valuations indicate Mr S sold his car for less than it was worth.
In summary, I dont think UKI treated Mr S fairly because of the delays in repairing his car.
But it paid him £700 compensation, which I think is reasonable. I dont think Mr S has shown
hes suffered a financial loss linked to the value of his car because of delays caused by UKI. 
So, I cant fairly ask it to pay Mr S for the financial loss hes claimed.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to confirm that it accepted my provisional findings. It had no further comment 
to make. 
Mr S responded to say the main point he wants to make is about the time between the garage identifying a water leak, deciding it needed a new engine and the time when repairs 
were finally completed. Mr S says he spoke to UKIs engineer, who told him the main dealer 
couldnt be bothered to try and repair the engine. He says it took too long for the main dealer 
to decide that a new engine was needed. When this decision was made Mr S says the 
replacement engine arrived within a week but took a further four weeks to fit. 
In his response Mr S says he chased UKI regularly. He says it told him the dates provided by 
the main dealer, for the work to start, kept being put back. He says UKI told him it wasnt 
professional to chase the dealer. He says he had a call with the main dealer, and it agreed it 
had let him down. Mr S says work then began the next day fitting the engine. He says the 
final insult was when the car was returned it was left to him to arrange the repair of a further 
fault. 
Mr S says the website valuations and dealer offers he received were on a wholesale not a 
retail market basis. He says this will always be lower than the retail value as the garage 
needs to make a margin. Mr S says the valuations he provided proves the fall in value of his 
car over the period in question. He says to use a different guide to value his car is unfair. He 
states if I use the trade guides referenced in my provisional decision, I should take the 
difference in values for both the start and end dates, not just the end date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Mr S says about the time taken by UKI to repair his car. I agree this took 
far too long to arrange. I dont dispute what he says about the discussion he had with the 
main dealer. However, this doesnt persuade me that a change to my decision is warranted. I 
think its fair that Mr S is compensated for the long period of time it took to repair his car. But 
he has been paid £700 by UKI for this. Having considered the impact that the delays had on 
Mr S, I think this is fair.   
In my provisional decision I said it was unfair that Mr S had to contact UKI, and the garages 
it used, on many occasions. I also said it wasnt fair that he had to arrange a further repair 
himself once the engine had been replaced. I note his further comments around this point. 
But Im satisfied the compensation UKI paid is reasonable in acknowledging the 
inconvenience and frustration this caused him.
I understand the points Mr S makes about the valuation of his car, and my use of the 
industry trade guides. Ive thought about whether, based on his comments, UKI has caused 
him to suffer a loss in the value of his car. But I dont think hes shown this to be the case. 
The trade guides show that when Mr S sold his car to a dealer, he did so for around £15,000 
less than the market value. As Mr S says in his response to my provisional decision, these 
valuations were based on retail as opposed to wholesale values. I dont disagree with what 
he says on this point, but Mr S sold his car for significantly less than the values shown by the 
trade guides. It was his decision to sell his car for this price. 
I dont dispute Mr Ss comments that the website hed used offered a lower quote later in the 
year to that it originally provided. Or that the dealer he sold to wouldnt offer more, as it 
needed to make a profit on his car. But this doesnt demonstrate that a loss has occurred as 
a result of failings on UKIs part. 
Ive thought about Mr Ss comments that its reasonable to assess the market value, and any 
change in value, over the period in which he says he made a loss. The trade guide valuations I referred to in my provisional decision were taken from 14 November 2022. This 
is when Mr S sold his car. However, our investigator also obtained valuations from 
September, which is the date he thought the repairs shouldve reasonably been completed 
by. I acknowledge that the valuations from September are, when averaged, around £1,000 
more than the average valuation taken from November. But, again, I dont think this 
reasonably demonstrates that UKI caused Mr S to make a loss. 
I understand the point Mr S is making  but based on the trade guide valuations he sold his 
car for significantly less than it was worth. In fact, the trade guide valuations show the 
highest quotation Mr S obtained was still around £5,000 less than the market value of his car 
when he sold it. So, although Im sorry for the inconvenience and distress Mr S has 
experienced, I dont think hes shown that hes suffered a loss in the value of his car due to 
UKIs actions.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman