DRN-3351969
The complaint
Mr H makes a number of complaints about The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) following 
blocked payments.
What happened
Mr H says he tried to transfer money to two businesses in late August 2021. He says the first 
payment was delayed and resulted in him losing £20 and the second payments was not 
authorised by Co-op. Mr H says he lost out on an investment and says he received a 
suspicious e-mail from Co-op asking him to contact it. He says he tried to contact Co-op 
using a different number, but the wait times were excessive. Mr H would like compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Co-op says the first payment was returned by the business Mr H paid the money to and so 
its not responsible for what took place. It says the second payment was held for security 
checks as its entitled to do where it has fraud concerns. Co-op has apologised for the call 
length times and paid £50 for the failure to answer all of Mr Hs complaint points. It says it 
needed Mr H to call it to check the transaction.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the first payment had been returned and so nothing to do with Co-op and that it was 
entitled in line with account terms and conditions to hold a payment for security checks. The 
investigator thought the compensation appropriate and that Mr H was given a contact 
number which would have allowed the payment to be made.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and questions if he received the compensation. He says there 
is no improvement in the call wait times and maintains he missed an investment opportunity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have not seen any evidence that Co-op delayed the first payment to a business I will call 
C having looked at Co-ops records and Mr Hs account statements. I think on balance that 
payment was returned to Mr H by C and so I cant fairly hold Co-op responsible for what may 
have taken place. 
In respect of the second payment, I appreciate that this was Mr Hs money and it is of course 
up to him to decide what he spends his money on. But I am sure Mr H appreciates that fraud 
is a major problem for banks and building societies and that they must have measures in 
place to protect its and its customers money. I accept that on occasions legitimate and 
genuine transactions can be held for further security checks which inevitably cause some 
inconvenience. 
I have looked carefully at Mr Hs account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that on 
occasions a payment may be blocked if Co-op has security concerns. Im satisfied that is 
what took place here that Co-op blocked Mr Hs payment pending further security checks 
and so it follows that I dont think it acted unfairly or made a mistake. I can see that Co-op 
sent Mr H a message asking him to contact it. I appreciate Mr H doesnt have a mobile 
telephone or landline, but I cant see why he couldnt have made contact with Co-op using 
the details in the message.
I also appreciate that Mr H was caused concern when he was told he may be on hold to Co-
op for some time, but I also think he could have used the details he was given in the 
message. We are not Co-ops regulator and so its not our role to direct it about staff 
numbers in order to reduce call wait times. I make that clear as I can see Mr H has said 
there has been no improvement in those call wait times.
Co-op accepts it didnt deal with all of Mr Hs complaint points in its final response letter and 
has apologised as well as paying £50 compensation. I have not seen any evidence the 
money wasnt paid and am satisfied that award is fair and reasonable for that part of the 
complaint. I accept that is not the main part of the complaint and dont think there was any 
real impact on Mr H by that final response letter.
Overall, Im satisfied that Co-op is entitled in line with agreed account terms and conditions 
to block a payment as here. It follows that I cant fairly hold Co-op responsible for any losses 
Mr H may have incurred when it was acting in line with those terms and conditions. And I 
cant fairly order Co-op to pay compensation as Mr H would like or compensate him for any 
lost investments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman