DRN-3106532
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services (UK) Limited (MBFS) 
applied at the end of his hire agreement. And that he didnt have the option to buy the car. 
He would like the charges waived.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known so I wont repeat them again here. instead I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
I have read the Hire Agreement Mr C took out with MBFS. It makes no provision for 
purchasing the car. So, whilst I appreciate this might have been disappointing for Mr 
C, I dont think it was unreasonable of MBFS not to allow him to do so.
Mr C has told us he didnt drive the full mileage allowed so thinks charges for 
damage should be offset against the lower mileage, particularly as he would have 
been charged had he incurred extra mileage. But there is no provision in the 
agreement for such an offset or to refund unused mileage. I appreciate Mr C might 
feel that is unfair, but he agreed the mileage at the outset. And if he wasnt happy 
with the provisions in the agreement, he could have chosen not to go ahead with it.
The agreement made it clear that Mr C was responsible for maintaining and returning 
the car in good condition. And that he would be liable for any repairs outside of fair 
wear and tear at the end of the agreement. I have seen the Vehicle Returns 
Standards (VRS) that I understand Mr C received as part of his agreement. This lists 
the costs that would be charged for damage. From that it seems Mr C has been 
correctly charged for the damage to the alloys.
Even if Mr C didnt have the VRS he could have asked for this information prior to 
ending his agreement. He could also have chosen to have the work done himself 
which may, but not necessarily, have been cheaper
Having looked at the inspection report and photos I agree with our investigators view 
that the charges come under the British Vehicle Leasing & Rental Association 
guidelines (BVRLA) for charging. BVRLA is an industry trade body and so an 
appropriate body to use as a reference. So, I dont think MBFS were wrong to make 
the charges that it did, and I cant therefore reasonably ask it to waive these
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman