DRN-3022139
The complaint
Mr A complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
  
What happened
Mr A took out a loan with Everyday Loans on 10 May 2018. He borrowed £8,000 and was 
due to repay £366.26 monthly for 60 months.
Mr A says that he applied for the loan to consolidate existing debts, however he said the 
repayments meant he was worse off than before. As a result, he says, he quickly ended up 
on a debt management plan but that Everyday Loans then became intimidating and abusive. 
He says Everyday Loans led him to believe hed broken the law and the situation contributed 
to his depression. Mr A says hed like the interest frozen on the loan and an apology for how 
he was treated.
Everyday Loans says it verified his job and income, reviewed bank statements, obtained a 
payslip and conducted a credit search. It adds that it used a statistical average to estimate 
his other living expenses and the checks showed the loan was affordable. It says it believes 
its checks were proportionate and the repayments were sustainable over the term of the 
loan. Everyday Loans adds that it had listened to the relevant call and could not agree that 
its representative was in any way rude or threatening.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that the 
information collected by Everyday Loans showed that Mr A was already struggling to 
manage his money and that his expenditure exceeded his income. She recommended that 
any payments made by Mr A should be deducted from the principal and that any 
overpayments should be refunded with 8% interest. She also said that any adverse 
information should be removed from Mr As credit file.
Mr A responded to add that Everyday Loans also had little regard for his communication 
preferences, and he was often contacted at unsociable hours. He says hed also like 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Everyday Loans responded to say, in summary, that the calculations used by the adjudicator 
did not take into account the consolidated loans. It adds that Mr A explained he took out the 
short-term loans as a result of a death in the family which, it said, did not indicate a reliance 
on such lending.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Everyday Loans lent to Mr A. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr As case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr As loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, Everyday Loans has sent evidence that it obtained proof of 
Mr As income and checked his credit file. It also says it reviewed Mr As bank statements 
but no longer had these on file. So Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out 
proportionate checks which showed:
Mr A was using the loan primarily for debt consolidation;
His most recent monthly income was around £2,000 from which an accommodation 
charge had already been subtracted;
Mr As existing credit included:
oFive loans with a combined balance of almost £27,000 and monthly 
repayments totalling £968;
oSeven credit cards with a combined balance of over £5,000;
oThree mail order accounts with a total balance of £2,855;
oAn overdraft approaching £700
oTwo short-term loans;
This meant, in total, Mr A was committed to making credit repayments of around £1,500 per 
month  75% of his income. When taking into account his other regular expenditure, Mr As 
expenditure exceeded his income each month.
I can see that over £7,500 of the Everyday Loans money was spent on repaying two of 
Mr As loans, but although that reduced his repayments by £340, the new loan repayment 
was over £366, so I cant conclude the loan improved Mr As financial position.
Ive considered what this all means for the affordability calculation and I cant agree that 
Mr A would be left with over £200 of disposable income each month:
Everyday Loans used a figure of almost £2,300 for Mr As income and yet his most 
recent payslip, of which it had a copy, shows his income to be just under £2,000;
Excluding the consolidated loans, Mr As monthly credit commitment was £1,135;
The estimate Everyday Loans used for other regular expenditure (£855) does not 
appear to be materially different from what Ive seen in his bank statements.
This left Mr A with no disposable income each month and it does appear from Mr As bank 
statements that he was also making a contribution to school fees that has not been included 
in the analysis.So, whilst Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks, I cant agree 
that the repayments on the loan were sustainable for its five-year term. Indeed I note Mr A 
only made the first three repayments on time.
With regard to whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in any other way, Ive considered the 
contact notes provided by Everyday Loans. I acknowledge that Mr A says he was contacted 
at unsociable times, but I can see there is a note on his account to say he had no mobile 
signal before 4.30pm on weekdays. Indeed, when Everyday Loans called Mr A shortly after 
4.30pm one day, I can see he asked for a call back after 6pm. So I cant see Mr A was 
contacted at unsociable times without his agreement and, whilst I accept there was a delay 
with Everyday Loans agreeing to the debt management plan, I acknowledge there was a 
genuine concern about one of the debts included within the plan.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Mr A and Everyday Loans did not make a 
fair lending decision, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been
given the loan. The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this
amount.
oIf this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr A;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding
the loan up until the settlement date.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman