DRN-3237486
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains about the time taken for The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU), to accept claims made on its commercial 
property insurance policy for water ingress.
Mrs A, who is a director of L, brings the complaint on Ls behalf.
What happened
A separate complaint has considered some of the points L has complained about. They are:
NFU declined a business interruption claim for losses related to the Covid-19 
pandemic
The settlement value NFU offered for business interruption related to the water 
ingress claims
The excesses applicable to the water ingress claims
As these points have already been considered, I wont reconsider or comment on them here. 
My consideration is limited to the remaining complaint point  the time taken for NFU to 
accept the water ingress claims.
In summary, L got in touch with NFU in October 2019 after noticing water had entered the 
property. NFU appointed loss adjusters to establish the cause of the problem  and whether 
it was covered by the policy. The first three loss adjuster visits were described as 
inconclusive by NFU. After a fourth visit, and evidence provided by L, NFU accepted the 
damage had been caused by storm  and was covered by the policy.
L thought it had taken too long to reach this point and the claim hadnt been handled well.
NFU didnt think there had been any delays, noting the difficulties associated with the Covid-
19 pandemic during some of that time. But it agreed communication with L could have been 
better and apologised.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think NFU had been 
responsible for the entire duration of the claim. But he thought NFU should have been able 
to establish the cause of damage and accept the claim sooner. Had NFU accepted the claim 
sooner, he thought the inconvenience to L would have been reduced. To put that right, he 
asked NFU to pay £200 compensation.
NFU disagreed. It didnt think there was anything it could have done to progress the claim 
more promptly. So the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time NFU answered the complaint in July 2020, it had already accepted the claim. So 
the issue for me to decide is whether NFU handled the claim fairly up to that point and, if it 
didnt, what it should do to put that right.
The history of the claim, including the various inspections, isnt in dispute. So I wont repeat it 
all again here.
In summary, after L provided quotes for the work, NFU arranged for the damage to be 
inspected. In principle thats a reasonable thing to do and is common practice when 
considering this kind of claim. But three visits and several months later, NFU hadnt 
established the cause of damage  or whether it was covered by the policy.
After a fourth visit, it accepted the damage was covered and the quotes provided by L were 
reasonable. In part this decision was based on evidence provided by an employee of L, who 
inspected the roof space internally. NFU says it was also because the damage had 
worsened, which made it more evident it had been caused by storm.
I dont think NFU caused significant delays. Some of the timescale was beyond its control. 
Most notably the initial time it took L to provide quotes and a gap in proceedings brought 
about by the Covid-19 pandemic. Whilst NFU is entitled to investigate the damage and be 
satisfied it was caused by storm before accepting the claim, its unusual in my experience to 
require four separate visits to do that.
I understand NFU considers it was unable to identify storm damage prior to the fourth visit. It 
says reports werent produced at the visits. That means its difficult for NFU to show now why 
they were all necessary. Its also unclear what exactly was different at the fourth visit which 
allowed NFU to accept the claim. I understand the photos provided by L helped, which calls 
into question why NFU didnt take the same steps earlier.
I recognise its not always possible to fully establish the damage in a single visit, particularly 
in a larger property such as Ls. But even if a second visit was needed to inspect the high 
level damage more closely  either by putting up scaffolding or using a drone  that would 
still have reduced the amount of visits and corresponding inconvenience and delay to L.
Overall Im satisfied NFU was responsible for some delays as a result of the number of visits 
it took before accepting the claim. And NFU accepted in its complaint response that its 
communication should have been better during the claim.
For these reasons, Im persuaded L was inconvenienced above and beyond what it should 
have been during the claim. Whilst L, as a limited company, cant suffer distress, it can be 
inconvenienced, and I think its fair for NFU to compensate L for this. Im satisfied £200 is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
If L has any concern about how the claim progressed after the complaint response in July 
2020, its entitled to make a separate complaint about that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay L £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman