DRN-3046404
The complaint
Ms W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited has rejected the claim she made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms W is represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call T.
What happened
In or around February 2016 Ms W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at her home. After a visit 
from a representative of P, Ms W decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 
15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In March 2019 T made a claim on Ms Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. 
T said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and that these misrepresentations had induced Ms W to 
enter into the contract with P. T said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would generate free electricity.
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook did not issue a final response but responded to us and explained that it didnt 
agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms W or that there were any other reasons 
for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
T didnt agree with the investigators view but did not provide any further comments.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75(1) 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Ms W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms W could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms W and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both T and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Ms Ws solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
were any untrue statements of fact, alongside Ms Ws recollection of the sale.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This detailed 
that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers by email shortly 
after the initial meeting. Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P sent this document to Ms W.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by T at the time the original complaint was 
made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the total amount 
payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Ms W says that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and whether 
this supports what she says she was told as I consider the quote was central to the sales 
presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms W could expect to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Ms W could expect to receive 
a total income in year one of £205.27 from the FIT.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms W could expect from the system. The 
estimated year one electricity savings totals £351.73 and the combined income and savings 
in year one is shown as £557.00. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
There is a section headed Repayments with tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the length of the loan that and 
Ms W entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments 
of £89.33 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged 
over a monthly basis, against the agreed loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income with the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income Ms W could expect to receive, by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Ms W was told that her 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Electricity savings
T has said that P told Ms W that the system would generate free electricity.
Page nine of the quote details the electricity bill savings that Ms W could expect to receive. 
As detailed above the estimated saving in year one is £351.73.
Ms W told P that her then current monthly electricity spend was £110  so £1,320 a year. 
Therefore, I think its clear that Ms Ws electricity bills would reduce but there would still be 
an amount for her to pay.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Ms W that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system against 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Ms W was expected to have made a 
loss of £42.27 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £39.72 a 
month. It wouldnt be until year 13 that the expected benefits would exceed the monthly loan 
repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until after the loan was repaid that 
she would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system would be 
paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Ms W was told by P that the system would be self-funding over 
time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 30 years. This shows that 
by year 19 the overall benefits that Ms W could expect to receive would have exceeded the 
total amount payable under their loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 19, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I 
were satisfied that this induced Ms W to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms W. The MCS certificate set out that the system was expected to 
produce 3,012.00 kWh a year and this in turn would generate income for Ms W by way of 
FIT payments and energy savings.
I have looked at Ms Ws FIT statements and can see that the system generated 3,023.07 
kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the 
system is performing as expected.
I can also see that Ms W accepted a £50 offer from P for the loss of generation due to their 
system being down.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these was fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data from 2006 to 2015 to calculate the utility 
price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020. 
The increases have been lower than the assumptions used by P at the point of sale and I 
think that explains why Ms W hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels.
Ive gone on to consider whether the assumptions used by P for both RPI increases and 
utility price increases were reasonable at the time that Ms W entered into the contract. As I 
have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential income Ms W could have expected 
to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been 
as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms W entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms W to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman