Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators view of this 
complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close 
Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr O. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed 106,548 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
DRN-3492480Page 2 of 3would expect quite a bit of wear and tear and they may expect an engine that had completed 
that amount of mileage to be nearing the end of its life too.
But here, it's important to note that the engine had been replaced on this car in September 
2019. The advert said that the car had a new engine fitted at 82,500 miles and a comment 
at the end of the advert said, attention grabber 1 owner, FSH (full-service history), new 
engine. Close Brothers have suggested that would have been a reconditioned engine of 
equivalent mileage but thats not what the advert said, and Ive not been provided with 
evidence to suggest the engine wasnt new.
The relevant legislation says that when we consider whether goods are of satisfactory quality 
we should also consider whether theyve been durable. The independent engineer didnt 
consider that when he provided his report and neither did he consider that the replacement 
engine had been reported as new. I dont think a new engine should have failed after less 
than 30,000 miles. I think its widely accepted that engines should last much more than that 
as long as they are serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. This 
engine had been, and I dont therefore think it had been durable or was of satisfactory 
quality.
The relevant legislation says that a business should be given one opportunity to repair a car 
in those circumstances. So, Im asking Close Brothers to do that.
Close Brothers may argue that the engine was actually a reconditioned one of a similar 
mileage. I dont think thats currently been demonstrated but, even if it could be shown to be 
true, I think there would likely be a case of misrepresentation here. The advert clearly stated 
a new engine had been fitted and that would have been an important feature Mr O would 
have been relying on when agreeing to the deal. 
Putting things right
Close Brothers should collect the car at no cost to Mr O and repair it. I note the garages 
email to Mr O sent in March 2022 suggests that will mean the engine unit will need 
replacing.
Its not fair that Mr O has been paying for a car hes had no use of since it broke down on 3 
December 2021. So, Close Brother should refund any finance instalments Mr O has paid 
since then and they should add 8% interest as Mr O has been deprived of that money.
Mr O has also been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to arrange alternative 
transport and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have 
been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Im asking Close Brothers to pay him £100 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
Collect and repair the car at no cost to Mr O.
Refund any finance instalments Mr O has paid since the car broke down on 3 
December 2021. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr O £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.Page 3 of 3Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman