DRN-2165888
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos), has wrongly recorded missed payments on her credit file. She says this 
has made it difficult for her to obtain a mortgage.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her husband.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Argos wrongly reported two missed payments to the credit reference agencies. This was 
because of a delay in receiving the payments which came via its debt collection agency. Im 
satisfied that Argos has made changes to its payment processing system so that there arent 
delays in the future. And Im satisfied that it asked the credit reference agencies to amend 
their records. Different credit reference agencies record this information in different ways, 
and I cant hold Argos responsible for how each of them updated their records. Im 
persuaded that Argos told the relevant parties that there should be no missed payments 
reported. And Im satisfied that Mrs Cs credit file shows the correct account balance.
In addition, Argos wrote to Mrs C to explain what had happened. It clearly said, I can 
confirm payments have been made in February and June 2019 and your Credit File should 
not indicate you have not made the payments. I think this letter could be used as evidence if 
Mrs C has any difficulty in obtaining credit in the future. She may also want to consider 
registering a notice of correction with the credit reference agencies to explain, from her 
point of view, what happened, given her concerns about her creditworthiness.
Mrs Cs credit file wrongly showed her account was six months in arrears. This was due to 
an error by Argos. Argos apologised and quickly arranged for her credit file to be amended. 
Her account is correctly shown as being five months in arrears, because this was the 
position of the account before the debt management plan was put in place.
An error was also made with the level of interest being charged on the account. But Argos 
made the appropriate adjustments so that the account reflects no interest charges since it 
was passed to the debt collection agency. I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
I fully understand Mrs Cs strength of feeling on this matter and can see its been frustrating 
for her and her husband to get to the bottom of whats happened, particularly with the 
different parties involved in this account since the debt management plan was put in place. 
But Im satisfied that Argos has corrected its mistakes and that Mrs Cs credit file is an 
accurate reflection of the conduct of the account. Since the complaint was referred to us, 
Argos offered to pay Mrs C £100 for the trouble and upset caused. I consider this to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos 
Financial Services, should pay Mrs C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman