DRN-3363603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained about how long it took The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as 
Platform to tell them it was unable to port their existing mortgage to a new property they 
wanted to buy.
Theyve said that the delay meant their sale and purchase werent simultaneous, so they had 
to move into rented accommodation for a while, pay for storage for their belongings and pay 
two lots of removal costs. They feel Platform should cover those costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Platform and they wanted to move home. Their existing 
mortgage had a fixed interest rate until 30 September 2021, and if Mr and Mrs C repaid it 
before then theyd incur an early repayment charge. 
Mr and Mrs C phoned Platform on 27 May 2020 as they wanted to port their mortgage to a 
new property, and a call back was arranged. Platform says it tried to call Mrs C twice without 
success, and so it sent a letter asking for her and Mr C to get in contact.
On 17 June Mrs C made contact and an initial appointment was booked for two days later, 
and then on 19 June the initial affordability checks were undertaken and the full mortgage 
appointment call was booked for 13 July.
Mr and Mrs C tried to move the full appointment call forward, but unfortunately that was the 
earliest that Platform was able to do.
Following the full mortgage appointment call on 13 July, Platform sent the application pack to 
Mr and Mrs C and it received that back on 21 July.
The valuation was booked on 27 July and, once completed, the report was received back on 
4 August with a nil valuation. The surveyor said that part of the land was being used for 
agricultural purposes which didnt fit Platforms lending criteria.
Mrs C looked into whether they could buy the property without the agricultural land, and on 
7 August she sent through information about that to Platform and a new valuation was 
booked.
On 18 August Platform asked for some more information from Mr and Mrs C. It said their 
chosen solicitor wasnt on its panel, and it wanted evidence of the rental income for another 
property and copies of the HMRC Tax overviews for 2018 and 2019.
Platform asked Mrs C about the annex to the property as it had a separate council tax 
liability (rather than being included as part of the main property). And on 24 August Platform 
said it couldnt proceed with the application unless Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor provided more 
information about why the annex had its own council tax liability, and whether they could be 
reincorporated.
Mr and Mrs C then applied to another lender and completed the new property purchase on 
24 September. As the sale had progressed on the property they were selling, they 
completed on the sale of that on 2 September and moved into rented accommodation for 
three weeks.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs C raised a complaint with Platform and it didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Our investigator looked at things and said she couldnt identify any unreasonable delays or 
incorrect information.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust the parties wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way 
that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs C have said that Platform should have asked upfront how the land was used (in 
terms of whether it was agricultural or not) and whether the annex had a separate council tax 
liability, as if it had done so then they would have known much sooner that the application 
would be turned down, giving them time to get the alternative mortgage in place.
Ive considered this point very carefully, but whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs C feel that 
way I dont agree Platform did anything wrong by not asking those questions sooner. 
The initial phone calls were with Platforms mortgage advisers, not underwriters. Whilst I 
would expect a mortgage adviser to know the main facets of the lending policy, they cant 
know every intricacy and know what specific questions to ask to cover every possible 
eventuality  thats just not feasible. Mr and Mrs C told the Platform mortgage adviser that 
their son would be living in the annex, and on the face of it that was enough to satisfy the 
lending criteria.
It was only once the valuation was completed and the underwriter then looked at the full 
application that the underwriter wanted further information and upon receiving that wasnt 
willing to approve the mortgage application without further information from Mr and Mrs Cs 
solicitor.
Platform tried to call Mr and Mrs C back to book in the initial appointment, but its calls 
werent answered. When Mr and Mrs C got in touch the initial appointment was booked 
within two days so I cant see any delays from Platform there. Whilst it was then three weeks 
until Platform was able to book Mr and Mrs C in for the full mortgage appointment, it made 
them aware of that timescale so if they werent happy to wait they had the option to go 
elsewhere at that time. Platform simply didnt have any earlier appointments, and it made 
Mr and Mrs C aware of that so they could make an informed decision about whether to wait 
for Platform or to apply elsewhere.
Once Mr and Mrs C returned the application pack the fees were taken and the valuation was 
instructed so things were moving forward with Platform. The period between 27 July (when 
the valuation was instructed) and 10 August was outside of Platforms control as it was awaiting a full valuation report. In that time the initial valuation came back with the 
agricultural use issue, and then a revaluation was needed with the agricultural land removed 
based on the revised property plans Mrs C provided. There was nothing Platform could do in 
that period.
Mr and Mrs C said:
valuer put a value of zero on the property when you finally organised a valuation, as he 
said that the land was agricultural which it actually is not and never has has an 
agricultural tie.
And:
On top of this we had to have new landlord registry plans created so that we could look 
at the possibility of buying the house and one acre and not the three acres that the 
surveyor was calling agricultural even though they are just three acres of a large garden. I 
had to organise those plans and send them to the surveyor and then he had to revisit the 
property look again at the value.
But thats not correct. The notes at the time indicate Platform had a conversation with Mrs C 
after the valuation came in Mrs explained that the current owners are renting 2 acres to a 
neighbouring farmer. They advised they are in the process of getting formal confirmation that 
this will end in septmber. And the following day Mrs confirmed sols are applying for vacant 
possesion of the land rented to the farmer, this is to take effect from 15/09.
So even if Mr and Mrs C were asked up front whether the land was used for agriculture Im 
not persuaded it is more likely than not that they would have correctly said it was, as even 
when complaining about this issue they said which it actually is not and they are just three 
acres of a large garden  which werent correct. The land was being rented to a neighbouring 
farmer for agricultural purposes at the time of the application, and that is outside of 
Platforms lending criteria, even if Mr and Mrs C intended for that to stop soon after they 
purchased the property. 
For all the reasons given, I cant hold Platform liable for any delays before the revised 
valuation report was received with the agricultural land removed from the equation.
On 31 July, when Mrs C raised the complaint, she was told that applications are dealt with in 
order and there were 79 applications ahead of hers in the queue. Mrs C said she was 
worried about the purchase falling through, so she and Mr C had the opportunity then to start 
a mortgage application elsewhere (as back up) if they were certain they wanted to sell and 
buy simultaneously, rather than move into rented accommodation. But their broker didnt 
upload documents to the new lenders application portal to apply for the mortgage elsewhere 
until 29 August.
From the contact notes I can see that on 4 August Mrs C was again told Platform couldnt 
confirm it would be able to complete for the end of August as had been requested, and that 
Mrs C accepted this but asked for her existing complaint to be expedited. This was another 
opportunity for Mr and Mrs C to choose to start an application elsewhere.
However, putting everything else aside there is another overarching reason why I simply 
cant uphold this complaint against Platform, and that is due to the fact Mr and Mrs Cs 
solicitor wasnt ready to complete on the purchase.
Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor told our investigator:As far as the purchase is concerned having checked the file a number of enquiries were 
raised with the vendors solicitors in July with a part response being received on the 
3rd August 2020. As we were aware of the delays with Platform, I can see that we did not 
chase those replies until the 28th of August. 
Had we have known that Platform would not proceed and instead [Mr and Mrs C] 
obtained a mortgage offer from a different lender, then we would have chased the replies 
to enquiries a lot sooner and there is a strong possibility that they would have been in a 
position to exchange contracts and complete their sale and purchase simultaneously.
But that doesnt make sense. The information that the solicitor didnt chase up for over three 
weeks was nothing to do with the mortgage, it was information from the sellers solicitor. The 
legal work still needed to proceed irrespective, as (if the application wasnt later turned 
down, which no-one knew was a possibility at that time) when Platform then produced a 
mortgage offer everything else could have been in place to proceed. The solicitor had no 
way of knowing on 3 August that the Platform mortgage wouldnt go ahead as the first 
valuation didnt come back until 4 August, and then Mrs C was appealing it and looking at 
buying the property without the agricultural land. 
As far as everyone was aware there was no reason why this mortgage shouldnt have been 
able to proceed (without the agricultural land) and that Platform couldnt have produced a 
mortgage offer on that basis in time for completion on 4 September. If that had been the 
case, though, completion still couldnt have happened on time because Mr and Mrs Cs 
solicitor didnt chase up the legal work with the sellers solicitor until 28 August.
Mr and Mrs C say their solicitor would have pushed the legals through had they received a 
mortgage offer from Platform, but their solicitor wasnt the only party involved. The solicitor 
said it had only received a part response from the sellers solicitor and so we cant say it is 
more likely than not (which is the test I must use) that the legal work for the onward 
purchase would have been in place in time for a simultaneous sale and purchase anyway.
Its not in dispute that this application took longer to get to a decline decision than you would 
normally expect outside of a pandemic, or that the new lender agreed the application quickly. 
But those arent the things I need to take into account. I need to decide if Platform kept 
Mr and Mrs C informed of the timescales so they had the option to go elsewhere if they 
wanted to, and whether Platform ought reasonably to have been able to say at an earlier 
point that it definitely couldnt lend.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Platform kept Mr and Mrs C informed of the 
timescales it was working towards, giving them the opportunity to mitigate their losses (in 
terms of potentially having a non-simultaneous sale and purchase) and apply for a back-up 
mortgage in case the Platform one wasnt in place in time. And Im also satisfied that the 
mortgage adviser wouldnt have known to ask the more detailed questions about the annex 
and let Mr and Mrs C know their application would be declined, as that was something that 
came up at valuation stage and that decision is the role of the underwriter based on the 
individual circumstances of a mortgage application. Even in August it wasnt a definite 
decline due to the annex, instead Platform was willing to consider it if more information was 
received from the solicitor.
Finally, whilst it doesnt impact on the outcome of this complaint, I mention this for 
completeness. Mr and Mrs C have said EVEN AFTER EXCHANGE PLATFORM MADE A 
HASH OF THE COMPLETION WHICH MT SOLICITOR HAD TOO DEAL WITH and The 
problems that the solicitors had themselves with Platform were ongoing it took weeks for 
Platform to sort out the redemption certificate and final statement even though we had 
cleared the mortgage. But those werent mistakes by Platform. Ill explain.Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor wrote to Platform twice on 25 August. The first message said We 
shall be glad if you will let us have a Mortgage Redemption Statement made up to Thursday 
3rd September 2020 and the other said We shall be glad if you will let us have a 
Mortgage Redemption Statement made up to Wednesday 2nd September 2020
The notes show that Mr C phoned on 26 August to chase up the redemption statement as 
his solicitor had told him they cant complete on 28 August because Platform hadnt sent a 
redemption statement through. It was explained to Mr C that his solicitor had only requested 
a redemption statement the day before, and that was for 2/3 September  there was no 
indication of an intended completion date of 28 August.
On 28 August Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor phoned to say it had received a redemption statement 
for 3 September, but it wanted one for 2 September. The solicitor was told the redemption 
statement for 3 September could be used, and the surplus £12.71 would be refunded after 
the account closed, but the solicitor said they wanted a replacement redemption statement.
That was issued, and then on 3 September the solicitor phoned to say they had received two 
redemption statements and they had sent the funds for the lower amount (so that was the 
statement to redeem the mortgage on 2 September). It was explained there were two 
redemption statements because the solicitor had requested them for the two different dates.
The mortgage redemption funds werent sent until 3 September and so the solicitor should 
have used the redemption statement for that date, rather than the one for 2 September that 
theyd insisted be issued (which was for a lower amount). This meant there was a shortfall 
upon redemption which Platform wrote off rather than insisting be paid (as was its right).
None of that was the fault of Platform, so I cant agree that it made a hash of completion.
Going back to the original complaint that was made, having considered everything I simply 
cant uphold this complaint however much Mr and Mrs C may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman