DRN-3574180
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the transfer of her holdings from Halifax Share Dealing Limited, 
referred to as HSDL or the transferor to a third-party provider, referred to as the 
transferee. 
Shes unhappy that HSDL failed to do the following:
Transfer £130,250 cash within a reasonable period of time. 
Transfer £9,400 worth of Novartis shares within a reasonable period of time. 
Notify her that it needed regulatory approval before it could sell the Novartis shares 
within a reasonable amount of time.  
To put things right, Mrs S would like substantial financial compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused as well as any financial loss suffered. 
What happened
A brief chronology of events (as outlined by the investigator) is as follows:
On 6 August 2020, Mrs S lodged her application to transfer with HSDL. 
On 26 August, HSDL chased the broker for a response, as it hadnt received a 
response from either the broker or the transferee. HSDL chased the broker again on 
11 September 2020. 
On 15 September 2020, the transferee provided its acceptance and the transfer was 
processed. 
On 16 September 2020, the custodian was notified and HSDL tried to arrange/agree 
the trade and settlement dates.  
On 25 September 2020, HSDL chased the transferee for a response. On 29 
September 2020, the transferee said that it would get back to HSDL to arrange the 
trade and settlement dates.  
On 30 September 2020, HSDL arranged the transfer for UK equities.
On 8 October 2020, HSDL chased the transferee for a response on the foreign 
equites and continued to do so every 10 days.  
On 5 November 2020, HSDL arranged the transfer of foreign equities. On 27 
November 2020, the transferee provided a response.  
On 2 December 2020, Mrs S requested to send cash to the transferee. But, because 
the bank account details didnt match, HSDL placed a restriction on the transfer. 
The transfer of shares completed on 3 December 2020  although Mrs S feels it 
shouldve completed by 6 September 2020. 
On 4 December 2020, HSDL tried to contact Mrs S to move things forward. 
On 8 December 2020, HSDL contacted the transferee to arrange a stock settlement. 
It continued to chase the transferee until it heard back. 
The Novartis shares  purchased in 2017  caused delays to the transfer because they 
couldnt be sold. Despite being asked by the transferee to sell the shares HSDL was unable 
to do so. HSDL doesnt believe it has done anything wrong or breached the customer 
agreement. 
On 12 February 2021, it contacted Mrs S to say that Novartis shares had been suspended  
through the Swiss market  since 2019. It has since confirmed that it doesnt have license to 
trade these shares and hasnt since 2019. Mrs S maintains that if shed been notified sooner, 
she wouldve transferred the shares to another provider or sold them. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Despite numerous requests the business failed to provide the business file. 
In the absence of any evidence that the business acted fairly, she upheld the 
complaint. 
It took almost four months for the transfer to go through and Mrs S provided evidence 
of the distress and inconvenience caused. In the circumstances HSDL should pay 
her £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays.
She cant safely say that Mrs S suffered a financial loss as a result of the delays. 
Shes unable to say that HSDL acted unfairly by not allowing/facilitating the transfer 
of the Novartis shares which was out of its control. 
On 12 February 2021, HSDL told the transferee that the shares had been 
suspended. It has since said that it hasnt been able to trade on the Swiss stock 
exchange since 2019 because it doesnt have a license to do so. 
If Mrs S had been made aware sooner, she might have decided differently about how 
to proceed. But as an execution only platform it wouldve been up to Mrs S to decide 
what action to take with the aid of independent financial advice and not HSDL. 
In the circumstances she cant blame HSDL for not being able to sell the shares as 
matters were beyond its control. She also cant say that the business is responsible 
for any financial losses suffered.
Mrs S is however entitled to some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused through lack of information and clarity from the business. In the 
circumstances the business should pay her an additional £500 compensation. 
In total HSDL should pay Mrs S £750 compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
HSDL responded and said that it agreed with the investigators view. But Mrs S disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, she said:
Although the investigator upheld the complaint, she (the investigator) doesnt appear 
to address the point further in her initial findings. 
The transferee might also have been responsible for the delays but that isnt the 
point. HSDL shouldve transferred the cash held by 6 September 2020.  
She hasnt complained about the equity holdings, just the cash, in respect of which 
HSDL is in breach its obligation to transfer holdings within a reasonable amount of 
time. She requests that the investigator makes that finding.  
As per her email to the investigator, shes seeking compensation of £5,000 not 
£1,000 as originally claimed. The compensation of £250 is completely inadequate. 
In regard to the second part of her complaint, shes seeking £10,000 compensation 
not £2,000, as initially claimed.
Her complaint isnt about not being notified that HSDL had suspended trading. But 
that she shouldve been notified of its decision not to maintain regulatory approval to 
sell/transfer Novartis shares, a reasonable period before it took place. Had she been 
informed, she wouldve instructed HSDL to sell or transfer her shares. 
She understands that HSDL havent provided her with any further information. But the information provided to her confirms that HSDL didnt tell her because it wasnt 
told itself until the last minute. HSDL also confirmed that if it had been notified earlier, 
Mrs S wouldve also been notified sooner. She didnt in fact learn of this until April 
2021. 
By failing to notify Mrs S of the situation in good time, HSDL treated her unfairly.  
Theres no evidence to justify the investigators conclusion that HSDL was unable to 
sell the Novartis shares because of reasons beyond its control. She doesnt see the 
relevance of it being an execution only platform. 
In light of the details given in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused she 
would like the investigator to reconsider the award. 
In the absence of a response from the business, and given Mrs Ss rejection of the 
investigators view, the matter was referred to me for review.  
HSDL has since provided the following response:
Its common industry practice to transfer cash after the equities have been 
transferred. It hasnt behaved unreasonably or treated Mrs S unfairly by doing so on 
this occasion. 
The £250 compensation recommended for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
broadly fair and reasonable and in line with what our service would award in these 
situations. 
HSDL hasnt refused to carry out Mrs Ss instructions to transfer and/or any 
associated request to sell the shares, it was unable to carry out this request. The 
decision to prevent these instructions being carried out is due to the expiration of the 
equivalency agreement between the EU and Switzerland in June 2019. 
This resulted in the Swiss authorities moving to protect the Swiss markets and this 
removed its capability to facilitate trading and settlement for Swiss shares. 
This change is beyond its control and notifying customers of such a change is not 
part of its core service. Its accounts are self-managed, its service is execution (non-
advisory) only. 
Its unable to trade any Swiss stocks on its platform despite equivalence being 
restored to the London Stock Exchange (LSE) in February 2021. 
Its not, and never has been, licensed to trade on the Swiss market and previously 
conducted all Swiss stock trades through the German Xetra Stock Exchange (GXSE) 
 which is still facing the same sanctions and equivalence hasnt yet been restored  
which means HSDL continue to be unable to offer the trading of Swiss securities on 
its platform. 
Mrs S made the following final comments:
On 13 May 2022, her IFA explained that the Novartis shares have been transferred 
but HSDL hasnt explained why this was possible now.
Whilst a delayed transfer is still welcome, HSDLs failure to do it sooner is a breach 
of its contractual obligations towards her and its failure to treat her fairly. 
She accepts that the transfer means shes not lost the value of the investment. 
However, had the delay not occurred in the first place, she wouldnt have suffered 
distress and inconvenience between 6 September 2020 and 11 May 2022.
She still believes the transfer should have happened by 6 September 2020  30 days 
from when HSDL logged the request. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think the business behaved reasonably 
in respect of the delays. However, the redress recommended by the investigator is broadly 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I also note that HSDL has now transferred the 
Novartis shares and that Mrs S is probably in a better position now, than she was when the 
view went out.  
The above notwithstanding, I cant say that the business has done anything wrong by not 
being able to transfer the Novartis shares sooner. Its more likely than not that due to 
reasons outside of its control it wasnt able to do so. I assume that the difficulty with the 
Swiss exchange and/or GXSE has improved so that HSDL was able to successfully transfer 
the relevant shares.
 
In any case, I dont think HSDL deliberately delayed matters to cause Mrs S distress and 
inconvenience. I also dont think the business has behaved unreasonably by not, at the 
outset, transferring the cash before the equity.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ss strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs S 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs S, and HSDL, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Im aware Mrs S has raised various questions but my not answering all her questions doesnt 
prevent me from reaching a decision in this case.
I should also make clear that Im only considering the actions of HSDL in this case and not 
the actions of the transferee. Whilst I appreciate that delays can occur during a transfer  its 
worth remembering that its not always someones fault. 
I dont think its necessary for me to reiterate the chronology, but on the face of the evidence, 
and on balance, despite what Mrs S says, I cant blame HSDL for the entire delays that shes 
experienced. In other words, Im unable to safely conclude that HSDL is solely responsible 
for the delays experienced. 
Im conscious that HSDL couldnt act without the relevant information from other parties, and 
therefore it was only so far that it could go with the transfer request. Having dealt with similar 
complaints, Im aware that for example, a transferor is unlikely to transfer any holdings until 
the transferee has agreed with the valuation of the funds, and confirmed whether it can accept the holdings, usually within a specific period. Im aware that this isnt uncommon 
within the industry.   
In any case, I dont think HSDL managed Mrs Ss expectations as well as it couldve or 
provided a level of service that she could expect from it, including accurate and up to date 
information about what was going on. So, in relation to the first part of Mrs Ss complaint, on 
balance Im satisfied that £250 compensation is broadly fair and reasonable. I note that the 
transfer request logged in August 2020 was complete by December 2020, except for the 
Novartis shares.
 
Despite what Mrs S says, Im not persuaded that the business did anything wrong by not 
transferring the cash first at the outset, before transferring the equities. I note its a common 
industry practice, so HSDL hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. In the 
circumstances I cant say that the business behaved unreasonably, or that it treated Mrs S 
unfairly, by not transferring the cash first. 
I note HSDL says that it wouldnt normally transfer cash first unless there was an exceptional 
reason. But once Mrs S called the business to request the cash transfer, I note HSDL 
obliged fairly promptly. 
I note Mrs S says that the delay deprived her of the opportunity to invest her cash, but I cant 
blame HSDL for this. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she needed/wanted the money 
urgently to buy any specific shares. Even if she decided to use the money to buy shares in 
the future, in the circumstances that doesn't mean the business is responsible for her not 
being able to do so sooner, or for any loss. 
Arguably Mrs S couldve used the cash to purchase specific shares if thats what she wanted 
to do and then transfer them in-specie, but she made no effort to do so. In this instance, and 
on balance, Im satisfied that the compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delays, as referred to above, is reasonable for this part of the complaint. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs S was under no obligation to disclose her investment plans to 
HSDL, I think that this wouldve been evidence of her intention at the time. So, despite what 
Mrs S now says, on balance I cant safely say that she only wanted to transfer her cash so 
that she could buy specific shares.
Based on what HSDL says, its inability to successfully transfer the Novartis shares arose, in 
the main, from issues that were outside of its control. On balance Im persuaded by its 
explanation involving the EU and the Swiss exchange and that it simply couldnt transfer the 
shares at the time, even if it wanted to. Despite what Mrs S says, Im not persuaded that 
HSDL deliberately took steps to prevent her from transferring the shares in a timely manner. 
In the circumstances, and on balance  notwithstanding the eventual successful transfer of 
the Novartis shares  I think Mrs S shouldve been furnished with the correct and up to date 
information  regarding the Novartis shares  much sooner, in order to manage her 
expectations better. In other words, HSDL shouldve made its position clear from the outset 
 I note that Mrs S still is unsure about how or why HSDL was eventually able to transfer her 
shares which Ive taken into account. 
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Mrs S suffered significant distress and inconvenience 
during the entire process, chasing HSDL for answers, and not knowing what to do about the 
shares, for which I think an additional £500 compensation is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Despite what Mrs S says, Im satisfied that the compensation adequately reflects the time 
and effort put in by her to try and resolve the issues, before the shares were successfully transferred. In my opinion the award also adequately considers her frustration by the 
process as detailed by her in her chronology. Im mindful that she now has her shares, 
therefore any claim regarding the loss of these shares is no longer material and need not be 
considered by me. 
Despite what Mrs S says about HSDLs obligations, Im mindful that it provided an execution 
only service, therefore it wasnt responsible for providing any advice. On balance it could be 
argued that Mrs S (as a non-advised investor) ought to have known what was going on with 
the Novartis shares globally, rather than expecting/relying on HSDL to notify her. That 
notwithstanding, Im upholding the complaint on the basis that it didnt provide clear and 
accurate information when it wouldve been reasonable to do so.  
I appreciate Mrs S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give her 
what she wants beyond what I have awarded.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mrs S £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mrs S redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman