DRN-2303465
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made under her 
travel insurance policy. She also says that the policy was mis-sold.
All reference to URV includes its agents and appointed representatives. And although Mrs C 
is being represented by her mum in this complaint, Ive referred to Mrs C throughout 
because she was the policyholder. 
What happened
Mrs C had the benefit of a single-trip, bronze, travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, 
to cover a trip abroad which was due to take place between 15 and 22 September 2019 (the 
policy). 
Mrs C was due to leave her children in the care of a family member whilst she went away. 
However, very unfortunately, due to that family member being unwell, the family member 
was unable to travel to where Mrs C lived to look after her children. So, Mrs C cancelled her 
trip.
She made a claim on the policy to cover her unrecoverable costs in relation to the trip. URV 
declined the claim on the basis that it didnt fall within one of the cancellation reasons 
covered by the policy. 
Mrs C didnt think that was fair and complained to URV. She also said that the policy was 
mis-sold as the circumstances that shed be able to claim for if her trip was cancelled hadnt 
been made clear.  URV didnt uphold her complaint so she complained to our Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the outcome, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did URV unfairly decline Mrs Cs claim?
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of policy being met, the policy does provide cover of up to 
£1,500 if a trip needs to be cancelled for the following reasons:
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before   
 you left home:
-you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
-you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
-you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
-you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces had your leave orders 
cancelled.
I know Mrs C says that those prescribed reasons are too limited. But those are the terms on 
which the policy provided cover for, if a trip is cancelled. And given the reasons why Mrs C 
couldnt go on her planned trip, I dont think URV has unfairly and unreasonably concluded 
that her claim isnt covered in the circumstances of this case. Although Mrs C says that the 
policy covers a trip being cancelled if the person the policyholder was going to stay with falls 
ill, I dont think that can reasonably be interpreted to cover Mrs Cs circumstances. 
From Mrs Cs perspective, I can understand why she thinks her claim should be covered but 
a travel insurance policy isnt designed to cover every eventually. 
Was the policy mis-sold?
I understand that the policy was taken out, online, by Mrs Cs mum or Mrs Cs behalf. Given 
what I know about online sales, Im satisfied that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. 
Thats consistent with whats reflected on the schedule of insurance. 
As such, URV didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs Cs needs. But it did 
need to provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of the policy 
when it was sold. 
Ive asked URV to provide screenshots showing the online journey when the policy was 
taken out. Its been unable to do so. Thats unfortunate as it means I dont know how the 
main terms of the policy were presented or what information was provided to Mrs Cs mum, 
on her behalf. 
However, I think its unlikely that each cancellation term was highlighted during the online 
process. Thats because the insurance product information document (IPID) which Mrs C is 
likely to have been provided with after the policy was sold, doesnt set out each of those 
terms either.  But given that the cancellation terms in the policy werent particularly unusual 
compared with a lot of travel insurance policies, I dont think URV wouldve been required to 
highlight each insured event under the cancellation section of the policy before the policy 
was sold. 
The IPID did refer Mrs C to the policy document and if she wasnt happy with the 
cancellation terms, she was free to cancel the policy within the cooling off period, receive a 
refund of the premium paid and take out another policy elsewhere. But she didnt do this. 
Further, in my experience, its unlikely that Mrs C wouldve been able to find a travel 
insurance policy which covered cancellation due to childcare issues as an insured event  
particularly one that was within a similar pricing bracket to the one Mrs C had the benefit of. 
Besides, Mrs C has said that at the time the policy was taken out she didnt know that she 
wouldnt have been able to go on the trip because of childcare issues. So, even if she 
shouldve been made better aware of the cancellation terms  and what was covered - at the 
time of sale, its unlikely that this wouldve put her off taking out the policy.
So, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
I know Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help her to know that 
her complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent of the parties.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman