DRN-1992176
The complaint
In summary, Mr F and Mrs F have complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as 
Direct Line, didnt pay the amount they think it should have paid out when they made an 
insurance claim. And they wanted to purchase replacement items of jewellery from a jeweller 
of their choice. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr F and Mrs F made a claim on their household insurance policy. UKI instructed 
one of its loss adjusters to deal with the claim. It offered to replace items of inherited 
jewellery that had been stolen.
Mr F and Mrs F didnt want to use UKIs supplier. They preferred to purchase replacements 
from a jeweller of their choice. 
In response to their complaint, UKI explained it was confident its loss adjuster could replace 
the stolen items using the methods it had offered. And it went on to explain how the figure for 
a cash settlement had been calculated. 
Mr F and Mrs F didnt agree, and their complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. 
She explained why she didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. And she referred to the 
terms and conditions for Mr F and Mrs Fs insurance policy. 
As Mr and Mr F and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators answer, the case has been 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
 
The crux of the issue in this case is whether UKI have reasonably settled Mr F and Mrs Fs 
insurance claim. The terms and conditions of Mr F and Mrs Fs insurance policy set out how 
UKI will settle claims made in respect of personal possessions. They say specifically at 
section C, that UKI will choose whether to:
Replace or repair the item or part
Pay the costs of replacing or repairing the item or part up to the amount it would cost 
UKI to replace or repair using UKIs own suppliers or
Make a cash payment 
It goes on to explain that it wont pay more than the amount it would cost UKI to replace or 
repair using its own suppliers. 
UKI offered to replace Mr F and Mrs Fs jewellery using its own suppliers. This is what it 
could do under the terms of the insurance policy. This isnt in my experience an unusual 
provision in insurance policies of this type. And I dont think it was unreasonable of UKI to 
settle the claim in the way the policy terms specify and use its own suppliers. 
Mr F and Mrs F told UKI that a lot of the jewellery was inherited, and they didnt think this 
could be replaced by UKIs suppliers. And they preferred to use jewellers of their choice. 
Although Mr F and Mrs F had those concerns, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to indicate 
that UKIs loss adjuster couldnt provide appropriate replacements for the stolen items.
The terms of the policy provided for a cash settlement to be made, in lieu of replacement of 
the stolen items. Mr F and Mrs F wanted to exercise that option. 
But by accepting a cash settlement, the terms and conditions provided that a cash payment 
would only be made up to the amount it would cost UKI to replace the items. And in this 
case, that meant that the cash offer was less than the valuations Mr F and Mrs F had for the 
items that were stolen. 
Ive considered the valuations and the amounts cash offered by UKI. It seems to me that the 
valuations reflected retail prices for purchasing replacement items from a jeweller. But I dont 
think the figures offered by UKI to reflect the discount that it could achieve through using its 
own suppliers, were unreasonable or excessive. 
I also note that the policy provides for a maximum payment of £4,000 per item unless the 
policy schedule shows otherwise. And there isnt anything listed on the policy schedule. One 
item was valued in excess of £4,000 and wasnt specifically listed on the policy schedule. As 
a result, this would inevitably lead to a reduction in the cash payment compared to the 
replacement valuation. 
It doesnt seem unfair to me that whilst the policy provided for a cash settlement to be made, 
the cash amount was based on the cost to UKI of using its own suppliers to provide 
appropriate replacements. If the full valuations amounts were paid this would mean that UKI 
would have to pay more than it needed, to replace the stolen items. And Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen, that Mr F and Mrs F did have the flexibility to use jewellers other than UKIs 
suppliers.
Ive also thought about the replacement valuation given by UKI in respect of the bangle. 
UKIs loss adjuster has explained how it came to its valuation, which was based on its 
experience of the type of gold carat used in bangles of this type; and the cost of replacing 
bangles like the one that had been stolen. And from what it has described, the valuation and 
the basis for it doesnt appear to me to be unreasonable considering what it has said. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr F and Mrs F have said about the valuation they 
have obtained from a jeweller. But the difficulty I have is that this valuation was obtained 
after the item had been stolen. And I simply dont have enough evidence to say that this is a 
more accurate valuation than the one provided by UKIs loss adjuster.
I do understand that Mr F and Mrs F had a very traumatic time having to deal with the 
consequences of the burglary to their home. And I empathise that some of the items stolen 
had sentimental value for them. But for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think UKI 
has done anything wrong in the way it has settled their insurance claim in respect of the 
stolen jewellery. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman