DRN-3617803
The complaint
Ms G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) sent her a letter advising her 
of errors that had occurred with the administration of her pension plan. She didnt feel the 
letter gave her a proper explanation of what had gone wrong, which caused her significant 
worry. When she complained to Aviva, she didnt feel the response answered her concerns.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity, I 
repeat it here
Ms G is a member of a personal pension administered and provided by Aviva. The
pension is invested in a lifestyle retirement fund which works by moving money into lower-
risk investments as the member approaches retirement. This means, as they approach 
retirement, their exposure to fluctuations of any great effect will be reduced.
Aviva wrote to Ms G on 15 July 2020, to let her know they had identified a mistake with
these automatic lifestyle switches. Some of the switches had not taken placed as expected. 
It also explained they had identified the annual management charges (AMC) had not been
deducted between March 2017 and January 2020. The letter confirmed the plan had been
adjusted to correct the error.
Ms G felt this letter was inadequate. She was very concerned about whether this error on 
Avivas part has caused her to lose money or indeed what the impact on her pension long 
term would be. She didnt feel it was personalised to her circumstances and so she 
contacted Aviva on 20 July 2020, to discuss the letter and her concerns.
 Avivas notes show she wanted a full explanation and to understand:
a. Exactly what had gone wrong
b. How it had happened
c. What reassurances Aviva could offer to prevent it happening again
d.What Aviva would do to rectify the mistakes
On 8 September 2020, Aviva wrote to her with a view to answering her questions and 
alleviating her concerns. It also issued its final response, dated 9 September 2020 alongside 
this response, and offered Ms G £100 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Ms G didnt accept that the explanation in the second letter addressed her concerns and she 
found the language to be jargonistic and so she referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms G. In summary, he found that the first letter was 
very limited in its explanation and he could see why that would give rise to Ms G requesting 
further information. He found the second letter to contain a high level of jargon and still didnt 
answer her questions fully, so he upheld Ms Gs complaint and whilst he agreed £100 
compensation was fair and reasonable for the upset the first letter caused he felt Aviva 
should pay a further £100 for then failing to provide an adequate response to Ms Gs 
questions in the second letter.
Ms G accepted the investigators view but Aviva didnt.
Aviva said it issued the second letter with more technical information as it felt that would help 
explain the error and there was no loss to Ms G. It feels Ms G accepted this was an 
adequate response but she pointed out a layperson may not understanding the technical 
information, but she did understand it, as such it feels a further £100 compensation is not 
warranted and the offer of £100 it made is fair and reasonable.
Aviva asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I said I was aware that Id summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties and Id done so using my own words. I explained I wasnt going to 
respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I found in this case, both parties have agreed the first letter sent to Ms G was limited in its 
explanation of what had gone wrong. It was a standard letter and raised further concerns for 
Ms G which understandably caused her to be worried about the administration of her 
pension and as a result she lost confidence in Aviva.
Aviva acknowledged this and apologised offering a £100 for the trouble and upset this 
caused and issued a second letter by way of explanation.
The dispute here is whether an additional payment of £100 is warranted for the poorly 
worded second letter issued by Aviva, by way of a more detailed explanation, as requested 
by Ms G.
I explained at the outset, its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I said the first letter, which is accepted as being rather mediocre explained there had been a 
system error which impacted pension plan holders at Aviva, of which Ms G was one. I 
appreciate, that there was little by way of a full explanation in this letter and I said I could see 
how this caused Ms G understandable worry about the implication for her pension. It seems 
to me that Aviva also agreed this could have been explained in a better manner and so it 
apologised and offered £100 by way of recognition and issued a second letter explaining the 
error in more detail.
I have considered carefully the second letter sent by Aviva. I agree it contains some jargon 
and it is quite a technical letter. I dont think it explains particularly well the background to the 
system error, but it does explain it and Ms G has said she understood it, so I said I didnt 
think it warranted a further compensatory payment. I went on to explain why.I think there is some jargonistic terms within the second letter, Ms G says within her 
complaint that she does understand the terminology but that it isnt in plain English and 
probably a layperson wouldnt understand it. She may be correct in her assumption, but I 
determine complaints based upon the individual merit of the complaint, not in a wider sense, 
unless that irrelevant to the complaint. Ms G acknowledged that she did understand the 
second letter. The letter does make it clear that a system error has occurred and was 
corrected as soon as it was identified and there has been no financial loss to her as a result. 
So, on balance Im persuaded Ms G understands this.
Aviva has been unable to tell this service how the system error was identified, but once it 
had been, the issue was corrected allowing the pending transactions to take place. The 
transactions were executed as at the dates they were originally scheduled for. In other 
words, if Ms G looked at the transaction history for her pension, it would show the switches 
as having taken place on the date they were originally scheduled for, using the unit prices 
available on that day.
So, I said whilst its unfortunate that the error occurred, Im persuaded that Aviva acted 
swiftly to correct it as soon as it was identified and wrote to effected customers to confirm 
that was the case. 
The second letter, whilst it could have been better worded, has explained that Ms Gs 
pension has been corrected and all transactions carried out as they would have been at the 
time. In other words, Ms Gs pension plan has been put back in the position it would have 
been in had the error not occurred and she has said she understood the basis of that letter.
In these circumstances, I said I found an apology and £100 compensation a fair and 
reasonable compensatory award for the trouble and upset this matter has caused and is in 
keeping with the level of redress offered in similar circumstances by this service.
I said I appreciated this would come as a disappointment to Ms G but Im persuaded Aviva 
has acted fairly and reasonably in offering £100 compensation for the trouble and upset its 
error caused Ms G and I didnt intend to make any further award.
Aviva accepted my provisional findings and had no further comment to make.
Ms G didnt accept my findings. She said:
In her view this was a systemic problem and she still doesnt feel Aviva has provided an 
acceptable reason why this has happened. She doesnt feel it acceptable that this service 
would accept large regulated financial institutions making errors and not providing an 
explanation.
She also says this has taken three years to get some form of answer and there has been 
considerable worry throughout that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I read and considered all the information provided by both parties again.I thank Ms G for her comments, and I understand she feels frustrated with the time the 
process has taken and what she considers an inadequate response.
It is unfortunate but system errors do occur from time to time. The important consideration is 
what action a business takes once a system error has been identified and whether there has 
been any financial loss in the process.
In this case, once the error was identified, Aviva has notified all the affected customers and 
corrected its error, backdating transactions and putting customers back in the position they 
would have been in. There has been no financial loss to Ms G.
I understand the loss of confidence Ms G has experienced and as I have already said I can 
understand her challenging the first letter. But Ms G hasnt pointed to what part of the 
second letter she doesnt feel is adequate, in fact she said she did understand it, so its 
difficult to identify what precisely Ms G isnt happy with by way of explanation.
As I have said, the awards offered by this service are modest - this simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ms G hasnt provided any additional information to that which she has already provided to 
this service. So, as there is no new information to consider it follows that I have reached the 
same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision the details of 
which I have set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold the complaint or make any award. I find the 
offer of £100 to be fair and reasonable. 
If Ms G wishes to accept Avivas offer of £100 and if she has not already done so, she can 
contact them directly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman