DRN-3481784
The complaint
Ms D and X have complained that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) failed to pay for treatment 
X needed.
What happened
Ms D and X have private medical insurance, underwritten by Vitality.
In March 2021, X was referred to a consultant by his GP for a consultation and tests. Ms D 
called Vitality and it provided authorisation. 
Following these tests, the consultant recommended that X should be monitored as an 
inpatient and so he went to a private hospital for further tests and monitoring. The next day, 
Ms D called Vitality and explained that X had been admitted into hospital. Vitality treated this 
as an emergency admission and said it was excluded under the policy terms.
Ms D and X complained but Vitality maintained its position.
Unhappy, Ms D and X referred their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think Vitality acted unfairly by treating 
Xs admission as an emergency but did think Vitality should pay £250 compensation as it 
hadnt corrected any misunderstanding about what it would pay. 
Vitality disagreed and said it thought an apology was sufficient as its mistake hadnt caused 
a financial impact and it had acted within the policy terms.
Ms D and X disagreed and in summary, they have made the following comments:
Vitalitys customer service was very poor.
Vitality failed to provide clear and accurate information on 24 March 2021 when it 
should have told them that Xs admission wasnt covered at all. Instead, it asked for a 
letter from the consultant and didnt seem to know its own policy terms and 
conditions.
Vitality agreed to pay for the treatment on 26 March 2021 but then failed to do so, 
and didnt explain this to Ms D and X. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Vitality could have been clearer about non-payment of any 
costs following Xs admission. But I dont think it unfairly treated Xs admission as an 
emergency. 
I should also say that whilst I wont comment on everything they have said, I have carefully 
considered Ms Ds and Xs detailed comments. And I will focus on what I consider to be key 
to my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms exclude emergency treatment which includes:
any admission to hospital that was scheduled less than 24 hours in advance
As Xs admission to hospital was immediate, any treatment following this, including the costs 
of the stay, are excluded.
Ms D is unhappy as on 26 March 2021, Vitality told her it would cover the costs of 
diagnostics and treatments but not the cost of the stay. She had also been told to get a letter 
from the consultant to confirm the admission wasnt an emergency and she had done this 
but Vitality still refused to pay for any part of the admission or tests which were required after 
X was admitted. 
X was admitted on 23 March 2021. Vitality had authorised tests and authorisations on an 
outpatient basis earlier on that day.
Ms D called Vitality on 24 March 2021 and explained that the consultant had advised X to be 
admitted into hospital. The adviser confirmed emergency admissions wouldnt be covered. 
Ms D said the consultant had advised X needed to be observed and it wasnt an emergency 
such as a car crash - so it should be covered. The adviser again confirmed an emergency 
admission wouldnt be covered. 
Ms D explained the consultant suggested it was better for X to be under observation rather 
than being at home. She said this was the first opportunity she had had to call, X needed 
another MRI and was also definitely going to be staying in hospital for another night. 
The adviser said Vitality would need a letter from the consultant to confirm X needed to be 
admitted and that hed had these conversations with X and Ms D. Ms D said she would get 
confirmation from the consultant to confirm that hed recommended X needed to be admitted 
and to confirm this wasnt an emergency admission. I dont think the advisers suggestion 
was unreasonable based on what Ms D told him. 
Ms D called again a number of times on 26 March 2021 and said she had sent the letter in 
but hadnt heard back. She was told that the letter had been received but as it was dated the 
same day as the admission, this would still be classed as an emergency and therefore not 
covered. Ms D asked whether the diagnostics and consultations would be covered to which 
the adviser responded yes. 
However, none of the treatment following Xs admission was covered and it was only the 
agreed treatment before Xs admission which had been authorised. Vitality didnt pay for any 
of the treatment following the admission which is what Ms D and X are unhappy about. They 
think Vitality should cover the costs as agreed in the call of 26 March 2021.
Having considered all of the above, I agree that Vitality could have been clearer, and could 
have confirmed on 26 March 2021 that no costs following Xs admission would be covered. This caused unnecessary confusion and Ms D called a number of times in which she 
explained she had to hold for at least 20-40 minutes each time, at a time when she was 
already stressed with Xs admission. Had Vitality clearly confirmed that no costs following 
the emergency admission were covered, Ms D wouldnt have had to call back so many 
times. And as Vitality didnt clear this confusion up immediately, it clearly caused frustration 
to both Ms D and X for which I think £250 compensation is appropriate. 
I dont think Vitality should pay the diagnostics as I dont think its mistake had any impact on 
the costs which had already been incurred. By the time Vitality mistakenly confirmed all 
costs for diagnostics and consultations would be paid, those costs had already been 
incurred. So even if Vitality had correctly told Ms D and X that no costs would be covered, 
they would have been in the same financial position. 
I appreciate Ms D and X will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think I can fairly 
ask Vitality to pay any costs following Xs admission for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay Ms D and X a total of 
£250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman