DRN-3682504
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) lent 
to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss A was given a loan of £3100 by EDL in February 2020. This was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of around £245. The total amount repayable including interest was just 
over £5,891.
A second loan was advanced in November 2020. This was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments of around £341. The total amount repayable including interest was just over 
£8,196.
The reasons for the first loan was to clear three existing loans. The reason for the second 
loan was to repay the balance of the first loan and clear three existing loans.
Miss A complained that EDL lent irresponsibly to her. She says she was pressurised into 
borrowing more than she initially intended and that the second loan was advanced to her 
even though she hadnt cleared the debts she was meant to clear with the first loan.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He didnt think that EDL had done anything 
wrong in providing the loan to Miss A. Miss A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss As complaint.
EDL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Miss 
A irresponsibly. This means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss A could repay the loans in a sustainable way. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amount and 
Miss As income and expenditure. 
EDL carried out some checks before it lent to Miss A. These included obtaining details of 
Miss As monthly income, reviewing bank statements from Miss As primary account, 
carrying out a credit search and verifying Miss As income. EDL says it used ONS data to 
estimate Miss As living expenses and obtained information to show that Miss As general 
living expenses and monthly financial commitments came to £1526, leaving monthly 
disposable income of around £1153. For the second loan, the same checks were carried out 
and the information showed that Miss As general living expenses and financial 
commitments were £1164 leaving monthly disposable income of around £1401.
From what Ive seen, the checks carried out by EDL were reasonable and proportionate.
EDLs account notes indicate that Miss A told them that she intended to clear three existing 
loans with the first loan. Ive considered whether the extent of Miss As existing credit 
commitments meant that EDL ought reasonably to have concluded that Miss A would be 
unlikely to be able to repay the loan sustainably. But it seems to me that EDL considered 
Miss As ongoing credit commitments and took into account the likely positive impact of 
consolidating some of her existing debt. On balance I cant fairly say that EDL ought 
reasonably to have concluded that lending to Miss A would be irresponsible.
Ive considered whether EDL treated Miss A unfairly in some other way. Ive done this 
because Miss A has said that EDL pressured her to take out a large loan. EDL has said that 
it didnt pressure Miss A and pointed out that there was a 14 day period during which Miss A 
couldve withdrawn the loan application.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Miss A and EDL. As I wasnt present, I 
cant be certain of what was said. Theres nothing to suggest that Miss A tried to withdraw 
from the loan application. On balance, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that 
Miss A was pressured into taking the loans.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think EDL lent irresponsibly to Miss A. Im unable to 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman