DRN-2643061
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a Royalties Gold Account (RGA) in October 2006 and 
a Select Platinum Account (SPA) in July 2015 by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
Mr S took out an RGA in 2006 and he says he did this because he was told by RBS that all 
accounts would become fee-paying accounts going forward. He also says that he was not 
informed when his account was migrated by RBS to a SPA in 2015.
Our adjudicator did not uphold his complaint. Mr S disagrees so the complaint has come to 
me for consideration.
For clarity Mr S did complain about things that happened earlier than 2006 on his account 
but another ombudsman has ruled the complaints out of this services jurisdiction, so I 
cannot look at them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by assuring Mr S that I have seen his doctors letter and I accept that he has 
had substantial health issues since 1998. Im very sorry to hear about them and Ive taken 
them into account in my reasoning below.
the sale of the RGA in October 2006
The sale of the RGA took place following a discussion between Mr S and RBS. From 2000 
to 2005, Mr S had used other packaged bank accounts that RBS offered. In March 2006 he 
had downgraded to a fee free account. He had this for seven months before upgrading to the 
RGA, which provided very similar befits to those hed had before.
The RGA cost £12 a month and its benefits included worldwide travel insurance, car 
recovery service, home emergency cover, extended warranty, card and ID theft protection, 
better interest rates on loans, mortgages, credit cards and savings; and a £250 interest free 
overdraft. The RGA also provide a range of discounted travel and insurance products.
Mr S says that RBS told him that all accounts were becoming fee-paying and so he believed 
he had to take one out. I dont doubt his honest recollections and I think its entirely possible 
that RBS implied to him that packaged bank accounts were the direction of travel that bank 
accounts were taking.
But Mr S had recently changed to a fee free account. And fee free accounts were widely 
advertised and available from other banks and financial institutions. So, if Mr S had been told 
he had to take out the RGA and he hadnt wanted a fee-paying account, I think hed have 
challenged it and sought and found a free account elsewhere.
Ive considered whether Mr Ss health issues wouldve prevented him from doing this. Ive 
looked at Mr Ss financial record and it shows that hed applied for and been accepted for 
overdrafts, mortgages and loans since 1998. Ive also looked at Mr Ss account record 
before and after the sale. There are very substantial sums being moved into and out of the 
account in what appears to be a managed way. So, in my view, Mr S had experience of 
important and substantial financial transactions and activity done with RBS in an apparently 
satisfactory manner, both before and after taking out the RGA. 
So, I dont know whether RBS was aware of Mr Ss health situation or not, but I dont think I 
can reasonably say that his health was a significant adverse factor in his taking out the RGA, 
when it doesnt appear to have been in his other dealings with RBS.
So, taking all this into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr S chose to take out the 
RGA based on the cost and benefit information about it that RBS gave him.
This service is aware that in 2006 RBSs approach to sales was on an information only, non-
advised basis. By this I mean that RBS didnt advise customers to take out RGAs or 
recommend the accounts to them, it only provided the relevant information on the product. 
Ive not seen any evidence that this sale was any different, so I think its more likely than not 
that the RGA sale was non-advised. This means that RBS didnt need to ensure the RGA 
was suitable for Mr S. It only needed to provide him with enough information about it for him 
to make an informed decision.
Mr S says that he wasnt given information about the RGA. But Ive found above that Mr S 
chose to take the account out. And as RBS was trying to sell the account to Mr S, I think its 
more likely than not that it told him a lot about the RGA both at the time and in subsequent 
communications. 
I think the RGA was of interest to Mr S, as he travelled abroad regularly, had a car, and a 
home, he benefitted from the overdraft facility, he registered for the card protection, and later 
when mobile phone cover was added, he registered for that as well. Mr S couldve closed 
the RGA at any time but didnt and kept it for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr S chose to take out the RGA based on what he 
was told about it and that there was no information that RBS didnt give him that would have 
put him off it.
the migration to the SPA in July 2015
This change was a migration rather than a sale, in that RBS was no longer providing the 
RGA and was offering customers the chance to move to the nearest similar account which 
was the SPA.
RBS sent customers letters about the migration and has provided evidence that it had Mr Ss 
correct address. The branding on the statements and correspondence Mr S received 
changed as well. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr S was aware of this change and 
would have challenged it if he wasnt happy. Ive again considered Mr Ss health issues but 
for the same reasons as above, I dont think this wouldve stopped him from downgrading to 
a fee free account if he wasnt happy with the SPA.
summary
So overall, having taken everything into account, I think its more likely than not that RBS did 
not do anything wrong in the sale of the RGA or the migration to the SPA.My final decision
My final decision is that I don not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman