DRN-2926805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain the investment strategy recommended by an advisor at SG Kleinwort 
Hambros Bank Limited (SG) wasnt suitable. Theyre also unhappy that SG didnt charge 
fees when they were due which they say gave them a false impression about historical 
performance and influenced their investment decision. Also, Mr and Mrs B complain they 
were pressured into accepting the recommendation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say they met with their financial advisor at SG in March 2018 to review their 
investments and received a report with his recommendation. They already had some money 
invested, but the recommendation was to invest this in a new strategy alongside further 
funds. Mr and Mrs B accepted the recommendation and SG started to implement the 
strategy.
 
However, on 6 April 2018 Mr and Mrs B were charged a significant amount of backdated 
fees. They contacted their advisor to complain about this as no explanation had been 
provided. The advisor explained this was because their account hadnt been properly 
charged. They complained this had given them an inflated view about how their investments 
had previously performed and meant they accepted the advisors recommendation more 
readily.
There was correspondence in April 2018 about the issue and Mr and Mrs B also had to 
decide what they wanted to do with their investments going forward. They decided to 
proceed with the recommendation but say they felt pressured into making a quick decision 
by SG. They were unhappy with how SG handled the complaint and have told us they didnt 
receive a final response. 
Mr and Mrs B sent a further letter of complaint in May 2020. SG responded in June and 
agreed there had been administration issues. However, they didnt agree Mr and Mrs B had 
been financially disadvantaged or coerced into making investment decisions. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The Investigator issued their 
view explaining why they didnt feel SG needed to do anything further. The Investigator felt 
that SG should have handled the backdated fees better, but the 25% fee rebate was 
appropriate compensation to recognise the impact.
 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the Investigators view and provided detailed responses. In 
summary, they said:
  
- SG should have provided advice on inheritance tax (IHT) planning during the 
meeting. But this wasnt discussed. SG accepted and apologized for not updating the 
previous IHT planning advice. Mr and Mrs B dont accept it was for them to have 
asked for advice on IHT planning. Also, that theyve proven this was a priority for 
them at the time. 
- The conversation with SG on 17 April 2018 was not about the profit or loss on the 
original investments. The transcript they provided show that SG said they would 
transfer the SIPP back into its original investment and the ISA back into what it was 
before. They say they were discussing the profit and loss of selling the current 
investments and buying the old investments. 
- If there was a shortfall then this would have been reimbursed to them by SG. But SG 
couldnt tell them whether there would be a profit or loss at the time of making this 
offer and this caused them stress. They didnt know whether to accept the offer as it 
hadnt been quantified. 
- There was undue pressure to accept the recommendation caused by SG because 
they were required to make a quick decision. They say the internal email provides 
evidence of this. Also, because SG set a deadline and then removed it.
- The offer made by SG was an incentive to accept the recommendations and Mr and 
Mrs B believed it would have been withdrawn if they did not agree to proceed.
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recommendation 
I understand SGs advisor was a restricted advisor and could only recommend their own 
products. Its not unusual for some financial advisors to be restricted in this way (as opposed 
to independent) but I would expect this explained in writing. 
Ive considered the terms of business and can see that SG stated they only provided 
restricted advice. They also went on to explain what this meant in terms of the analysis and 
products they might recommend. And having reviewed the correspondence between SG and 
Mr and Mrs B from the time of the recommendation, there isnt anything to suggest SG were 
unclear about this. As a result, Im content SG reasonably informed Mr and Mrs B about the 
type of advice they would be giving and with this knowledge Mr and Mrs B could go 
elsewhere if this wasnt what they were looking for. 
However, Id still expect the advisor to make a suitable recommendation within the products 
they were able to recommend. Ive reviewed the note of the meeting and the 
recommendation letter sent in March 2018. The advisor made a note of Mr and Mrs Bs 
financial and personal circumstances. This included their investments, pensions and income 
needs. Moreover, the advisor noted their capacity for loss and the risk Mr and Mrs B were 
willing to take in order to meet their investment objectives. He confirmed a loss of up to 25% 
would not impact Mr and Mrs Bs standard of living. The advisor also noted that Mr and Mrs 
B had sufficient emergency funds. 
Additionally, Ive listened to the call on 8 March 2018 in which Mr B called to discuss income 
tax. I can see the advisor explained the strategy would use Mr and Mrs Bs remaining 
personal tax allowance, use some of the dividend allowance but then the rest of the income 
would incur tax. Therefore, I can see the advisor took into account Mr and Mrs Bs personal 
tax circumstances. 
Further to this, the advisor set out Mr and Mrs Bs objectives. Amongst other things, this 
included investing a significant sum of money to achieve a balance of capital growth and income over the long term (seven years or more). The information recorded in the note and 
the recommendation letter show me that the advisor obtained sufficient information 
regarding experience, financial situation and investment objectives to enable him to 
recommend an investment strategy. 
The recommendation included: 
Investing cash into an income fund; 
Investing funds held in Mr Bs SIPP into a return fund; and 
Investing the two NISA amounts fully into the Balanced ISA Strategy. 
  
I can see the advisor categorised Mr and Mrs B as having a medium attitude to risk. 
Information about this was included in their recommendation letter and this shows it meant 
they could withstand a certain level of loss (up to 25%). This is consistent with the 
circumstances set out by the advisor. 
Ive considered the information about the income fund provided with the recommendation 
letter. I can see the fund aimed to provide an above average and sustainable level of income 
over the medium to long term. Therefore, this fund met Mr and Mrs Bs income objective and 
the duration for which they wanted to invest. It was categorised as a medium risk fund. Ive 
also considered the asset allocation of the fund. They provided the current allocation along 
with their recommendation letter. Also, they summarised the allocation percentages for 
bonds and equities. Having considered this, Im content the income fund was also suitable 
for Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk. 
In respect of the return fund, I have seen the information provided by SG in their 
recommendation letter. The purpose of the fund was to grow the value of investments and 
they aimed to deliver a return over the medium term. They confirmed this was five years and 
so I dont think it was unsuitable for someone looking for longer term investments. It was 
categorised as a medium risk fund. Also, they included information about the asset classes 
which made up the fund. I can see it included equities and bonds, as well as alternative 
investments such as gold and infrastructure funds. Additionally, SG explained they would 
invest in open-ended funds such as unit trusts and closed-end funds (such as investment 
trusts). Having thought about this, I can see the return fund met with Mr and Mrs Bs 
objectives and was appropriate for their attitude to risk. 
Ive also considered the balanced fund and can see the aim of this fund was to achieve long 
term equity returns with a moderate level of risk. SG provided information with the 
recommendation letter including about the asset allocation. I can see the positioning at that 
time included fixed income, equities and commodities. Having reviewed the information, Im 
content the recommendation was suitable because it did not exceed the level of risk Mr and 
Mrs B were willing to undertake and met with their objectives. 
Overall, the advisor took sufficient information about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances to 
enable him to make a recommendation. Also, investing in the funds (outlined above) was 
part of an investment strategy which seems to have been suitably recommended by the 
advisor. This is because the strategy sought to achieve balance between income and capital 
growth over the longer term which met their objectives. Also, Im content the strategy didnt 
exceed the level of risk Mr and Mrs B were willing to take to meet those objectives. 
IHT PlanningI want to assure Mr and Mrs B that Ive considered what they have said about the IHT advice 
and I understand how strongly they feel about this. I do agree looking at the note of the 
meeting that some specific advice ideally would have been given. I have seen SG sent a 
letter which included advice and options regarding IHT only two years earlier in 2016.
Ive also seen from the meeting notes in 2018 that the advisor did obtain information about 
Mr and Mrs Bs objectives. Therefore, he reasonably gave them the opportunity to outline 
what their priorities were. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have said they werent capable of 
raising IHT at this time given their personal circumstances and they were relying on the 
adviser.
Nevertheless, the advisor took reasonable steps to understand their objectives and his 
recommendation was based on this. Mr and Mrs B have said the references to IHT in the 
meeting note show it was a priority at the time.  I can see there was discussion of IHT during 
the meeting. For example, the advisor noted that Mr and Mrs B didnt want to draw on funds 
from the SIPP due to IHT benefits. Also, under section three it was noted, with reference to 
the SIPP, that Mr and Mrs B were looking for IHT benefits. However, I can see these 
benefits were primarily discussed in relation to the funds in the SIPP. The advisor noted Mr 
and Mrs B had specific requirements which included further monthly income and capital 
growth. 
The advisor also went on to confirm his understanding of Mr and Mrs Bs objectives in his 
recommendation letter. He didnt include IHT planning as part of this. The section on 
objectives also explained it was important SG had up-to-date information about Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances and objectives in order to ensure the recommendation was suitable.   
Overall, I appreciate the advisor ideally could have considered the IHT planning in more 
detail. SG have apologised for this. However, the meeting note shows the advisor took 
reasonable steps to understand Mr and Mrs Bs objectives and this was confirmed in the 
recommendation letter. The recommendation made was then based on the advisors 
understanding of their objectives, and Im not persuaded this was unreasonable. Ive already 
set out why Im content the investment strategy recommended was suitable. I appreciate this 
conclusion will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs B in light of their concerns. I note their 
new advisor has now provided this advice and they have since rearranged their investments. 
However, I cant say SG have done anything wrong because they made a suitable 
recommendation based on what they understood of Mr and Mrs Bs objectives.   
Management Fees and Accepting the Recommendation
SG have accepted that there was an error when the management fees werent charged. 
Theyve also apologised they didnt handle it better when the error was identified. And I 
agree the fees should have been charged at the time they arose, and SG should have also 
ensured they explained why they were taking fees prior to doing so as it was such a large 
sum.
I can appreciate this was concerning for Mr and Mrs B. They feel they may have made a 
different decision about accepting the recommendation had they accurately understood the 
past performance of investments. 
I can see a significant amount of fees were taken on 6 April 2018. This was a Friday and Mr 
B discussed this with the advisor on the following Monday. Ive listened to the call and can 
hear Mr B was shocked and upset by the amount which had been charged to the account all 
at once. The advisor agreed to escalate the complaint at that time and apologised Mr and 
Mrs B hadnt been notified beforehand. There was further correspondence about the issue. During the call on 17 April 2018, Mr B 
accepted that he didnt know if he would have made a different decision about the new 
advice if hed been aware of the charging situation. But he did feel that his decision had 
been influenced. The advisor went on to explain that the recommendation made was 
independent of the fee situation. 
Also, the recommendation was sent with accurate figures from the funds past performance. 
I can see Mr and Mrs B had this information to view prior to accepting the recommendation. 
Ive also listened to the call from 22 March 2018 and can see Mr B had a discussion about 
the income fund with the advisor. He raised questions about the fund and past performance 
based on the information hed been given with the recommendation letter.
Additionally, in the call on 17 April 2018, the advisor offered to waive 25% of the fees should 
Mr and Mrs B wish to go ahead with the recommendation for the new investment strategy. 
He explained this was to acknowledge the error made and to recognise their feeling that 
their investment decision had been somewhat influenced by the error. Alternatively, he 
offered to put the account back to the investment position it had previously been in. He 
thought SG would take the loss and leave any profit with Mr and Mrs B. He didnt have the 
calculations but explained that he didnt think the markets had moved much since theyd 
started implementing the new investment strategy.
I understand Mr and Mrs B feel the offer was unfair as it was unquantified. They said they 
didnt understand the true position because they didnt know if there would be a loss or profit. 
So, they didnt know if they would be worse off overall if they returned to their previous 
investment position. However, during the call on 17 April 2018 the advisor did say Mr and 
Mrs B could come back to him if they didnt agree with the offer. Also, that they could refer 
their complaint to our service. 
Therefore, SG took reasonable steps to inform Mr and Mrs B of their options should they not 
wish to accept the offer. I cant see Mr and Mrs B went back to say they needed further 
information before they could decide whether to accept it. Also, it doesnt seem they 
explained to the advisor that they felt the offer was unfair on this basis.  
Mr and Mrs B also said they felt there was undue pressure as a result of the deadlines 
imposed by SG. Ive listened to the calls and reviewed the correspondence during this time. 
Mr B explained to the advisor during the call on 17 April 2018 that he needed time to think 
about the offer.
The advisor called for a second time on the same day and explained that they needed to 
know reasonably sort of sharpish and in a day or so if Mr and Mrs B wanted them to put 
things back to where things were. He explained they were effectively hedging the position 
and SG couldnt leave that position open indefinitely. Mr B confirmed hed think about it and 
come back. Ive also seen an internal email sent between the advisor and his colleague at 
SG. It shows they wanted a decision quickly. 
Mr B called on 18 April 2018 and explained they werent in a position to make a decision and 
referred to 24 hours being up. The advisor assured him that he wasnt saying that they only 
had 24 hours to decide but just that they needed to know within a reasonable time and it 
couldnt be weeks. Mr B explained he didnt want to feel he was on a timetable. There was 
some discussion about the offer during this call and the advisor said he would leave it with 
Mr B. 
In response to the view, Mr and Mrs B highlighted the correspondence at the time and 
explained how they felt SG had applied pressure by setting a deadline and removing it. Ive 
seen an email sent by the advisor on 20 April 2018 and I can see he asked to talk on the 
following Monday to discuss Mr and Mrs Bs thoughts on the situation and the actions they would like to take. He asked if they were in a position to do this or if they required further 
time and whether theyd like him to proceed with the investment recommendations. Having 
considered the contents of this email, Im not of the view there was unreasonable pressure 
as there were no demands or explicit deadlines in which Mr and Mrs B needed to make a 
decision. 
Mr B called on 20 April 2018 and explained that their plan was to stick with the advisor and 
the new strategy. I do agree that Mr and Mrs B were in a difficult position, however, a 
decision needed to be made regarding what they wanted to do moving forward. Im content 
they were given time to think about the decision and it wasnt unreasonable that SG asked 
for this to be made within a reasonable time. Looking at the correspondence, Im not 
persuaded SG applied unreasonable pressure.  
Overall, I agree SG acted unfairly by failing to take the management fees and by then taking 
them all at once without notice. I can understand why Mr and Mrs B feel it impacted their 
decision. However, they had the figures for the past performance of the funds they were 
investing into under the new strategy as they were included with the recommendation letter. 
They discussed these figures with the advisor over the telephone. Also, the strategy was 
suitable as previously explained. They also had the opportunity to put things back to the 
position they had been in respect of their investments. Moreover, Im not persuaded by the 
evidence that SG acted unfairly in trying to resolve things or put undue pressure on Mr and 
Mrs B to make a decision. Mr and Mrs B were invited to return to SG if they felt the offer was 
unfair and seem to have been aware they could bring the matter to our service. For these 
reasons, Im unable to conclude, on balance, Mr and Mrs B would have made a different 
decision about their investment strategy had the fees been taken appropriately. 
Complaint Response 
Additionally, Mr and Mrs B have explained they did not receive a formal response in line with 
SGs complaint process. I understand their comments here and I appreciate Mr and Mrs B 
wanted answers to their concerns over the circumstances in which they accepted the 
advisors recommendation. I can see it would have been helpful if SG had addressed their 
concerns in a written response at that time. 
However, the advisor spoke to Mr and Mrs B on 17 April 2018 and discussed their complaint 
and the issues around accepting his recommendation. Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B 
understood they could refer the matter to our service as this was discussed during the 
telephone call on 17 April 2018. Nevertheless, I appreciate it wasnt resolved and when Mr 
and Mrs B complained in May 2020, SG responded and explained why they felt the 
recommendation had been suitable and also answered Mr and Mrs Bs other concerns. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded SG have acted unreasonably here.   
Putting things right 
SG should have charged the fees within a reasonable time of them becoming due. They 
should have also ensured they informed Mr and Mrs B when they did intend to take them. 
SG have already provided a fee reduction of 25%. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B were caused 
worry about such significant funds leaving their account over a weekend. Also, they have 
been left thinking about how SGs failure to take fees may have affected their decision to 
accept the recommendation. However, the evidence doesnt persuade me that Mr and Mrs B 
would have made a different investment decision at the time. Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Im content the 25% reduction in fees 
appropriately recognises this issue and the impact caused. This amounted to a reduction of 
over £7,000 in fees.  
My final decision
SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank Limited have already apologised and waived 25% of the fees 
charged on 6 April 2018. This is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman