DRN-3958370
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited unfairly registered missed payments on his credit 
file after he thought his account was closed.
What happened
Mr M says that he has always been on time with his payments towards his Vanquis credit 
card and he logged into his account online and paid his outstanding balance. Mr M says that 
he rang Vanquis and asked them to close his account. Mr M says the call handler told him 
that hed cleared his balance and cancelled the direct debit, but a direct debit was still 
debited from his account and Mr M later found out his account was in arrears. Mr M made a 
complaint to Vanquis as he feels he was misinformed when he was told the balance had 
been cleared.
Vanquis did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said that on the calls he made on 23 
September 2022, neither colleague advised him to make any payments as he told them he 
had cleared the balance himself prior to calling them. Mr M brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said Mr Ms 1 September 2022 
statement confirmed his account balance of £496.97, and although he made a payment of 
£350 on 2 September 2022, this didnt clear the balance as he used the card for further 
purchases. She said she listened to the calls Mr M had with Vanquis and he informed the 
call handlers that he just paid off the remaining balance five minutes ago and he would like 
to close the account, and Mr M was then transferred to the closures team. She said the call 
handler would cancel the direct debit from his end but advised Mr M to cancel it with his 
bank as it had already been applied for. She said the call handler told Mr M his account was 
pending closure which would go through once the payment Mr M just made cleared and the 
balance became zero, and once this balance went to zero, he confirmed Mr Ms account 
would go into a full closure.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that he was informed that the account was pending closure, but he was 
not informed to clear the outstanding balance regardless of if he had said that he cleared the 
outstanding balance five minutes ago. Mr M said it would be ideal of Vanquis to advise the 
customer in good faith to not apply the closure until he could see that the outstanding 
balance had been paid in case any interest/charges needed to be paid. He questioned why 
he had been advised to cancel the direct debit if there was a balance outstanding as they 
shouldve advised him to not cancel the direct debit until the outstanding balance was 
cleared in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive listened to the phone calls that Mr M had with Vanquis on 23 September 2022. Mr M 
tells the call handler hes paid the remaining balance and hed like to close the account 
down. He then tells her he paid the balance five minutes ago and he asks her if the payment 
has gone through. She tells Mr M she doesnt think she would be able to see the payment 
yet. She told him that she could see the payment made at the beginning of the month for 
£350 and she tells Mr M his current balance was £293. She then transfers Mr M to their 
closures team. So Mr M should have been reasonably aware that at that point he owed £293 
before any payment he may have made would have cleared.
In the conversation with the closure team, the call handler says that although his account is 
showing a balance on their end, his colleague had told him that Mr M had made a payment 
and Mr M confirmed he literally paid it five minutes ago. The call handler tells Mr M there is a 
direct debit on the account and it would be due on Monday (the call was made on the 
Friday). The call handler said he could cancel the direct debit on their end, but they 
recommend him to cancel it with the bank on his end as it would have likely been applied for. 
The call handler tells Mr M that the account status is pending closure. He informs Mr M that 
once the balance is at £0 his account would fully close. He tells Mr M about how this would 
show on his credit file. Mr M is told if youve got our mobile app, it will still let you log into the 
app even when its pending closure until the time when its fully closed. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about the direct debit. Mr M told Vanquis that he had 
paid the outstanding balance, so as he wanted his Vanquis account to be closed, this is a 
step I would expect them to take as they would have no reason to doubt what Mr M had told 
them. And there would be no need to keep an active direct debit on an account which would 
be closed. The call handler explained to Mr M all of the outstanding balance was comprised 
for purchases and by paying the full amount by the due date he wouldnt be charged interest 
for purchases. Due to the conversation being on the Friday, which was one working day 
before the Monday when the direct debit payment was due, the direct debit was still paid, 
and this would have been outside of Vanquis control if Mr Ms bank still sent them the 
payment even though it was cancelled on Vanquis side. 
As Mr M had told both call handlers he spoke to on 23 September that he had paid the 
outstanding balance, it would not have been proportionate for them to reiterate to him that he 
would need to clear the outstanding balance. The second call handler clearly explained to Mr 
M that the account would only fully close once the account balance was zero. And he told Mr 
M that he could still log into their application (app). Vanquis continued to produce statements 
for Mr M, so he shouldve been aware of the status of the account. At no point of the calls did 
either call handler confirm his account balance was zero or that they could see the payment 
Mr M says he made.
Ultimately, Mr M did not make the payment to his Vanquis account that he told the call 
handlers that he did. I dont doubt that Mr M made a genuine error here, as he says he 
transferred the funds from his savings account to his current account, but it appears he 
forgot to complete the transfer from his current account to Vanquis. But Vanquis have a 
responsibility to accurately report the account activity to the Credit Reference Agencies. As 
Mr Ms credit card statements show no payment for two statement cycles, then I cant ask 
Vanquis to amend Mr Ms credit file. So it follows I dont require Vanquis to do anything 
further.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman