DRN-4156862
The complaint
Mrs W complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined her claim for a lost bracelet under her 
home contents insurance policy. 
All references to QIC include its agents and intermediaries.  
What happened
Mrs W lost her bracelet and contacted QIC to make a claim under her policy. She says it 
declined her claim as her policy has a single article limit of £2,000 and QIC valued the 
bracelet at £3,150. Mrs W says the bracelet cost £300. Although it was bought twenty years 
ago, she didnt think it had appreciated in value this much. 
Mrs W complained to QIC. In its final response it says unspecified items are covered up to 
£2,000. As the bracelet is valued above this it must be listed on Mrs Ws policy. QIC says 
there are no items listed on the policy and so there is no cover for the lost bracelet. 
QIC says it reviewed its valuation based on Mrs Ws testimony that the bracelet was hollow, 
and contained diamond chips, not full stones. Its specialist advised the value was still in 
excess of the £2,000 single article limit that must be specified on the policy. 
Mrs W disagreed with QICs findings and referred the matter to our service. She also 
supplied a valuation from a jeweller she approached who valued the bracelet at £1,200. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was unreasonable for Mrs W to think her 
bracelet was worth less than £2,000. This was based on the purchase price and the 
valuation she obtained. 
Our investigator says QIC should pay the claim up to the policy limit for non-specified items, 
which is £2,000. 
QIC disagreed with this outcome. It says its Mrs Ws responsibility to know the value of her 
items being insured. Because it disagreed it asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Mr Ws policy covers her for the cost of replacing items that are lost, away from home. I think 
its understandable that she expected to be covered for the loss her bracelet. However, 
payment of a claim is determined by the terms of the policy which generally include limits. 
Mrs Ws policy includes a limit for unspecified items that are valued in excess of £2,000.
Mrs Ws policy schedule says:
Cover limits - £2,000 - Total unspecified personal possessions away from the property - 
each worth £2,000 or less (not including bikes).
And her policy terms under the contents section says:
Unspecified valuables - £10,000 or the amount shown in your schedule, which is higher. 
The most we will pay for any single unspecified valuable is £2,000.
QIC valued Mrs Ws bracelet at £3,150. Although it revised this down once it was aware the 
bracelet contained less gold than initially thought. However, it still valued it in excess of 
£2,000. Because of this it says the bracelet should have been specified in the policy. QIC 
says it acted in line with the terms of the policy by declining the claim. 
Mrs W said the valuation she obtained shows the bracelet is worth under the cover limit 
specified in her policy. She has provided examples of similar bracelets for sale at prices 
under £2,000. Mrs W believes shes shown the value of her bracelet is much lower than QIC 
indicates and falls under the policy limit for non-specified items.  
Mrs W says the original cost of the bracelet was £300. But this was 20 years before its loss. 
Its reasonable to expect the value of precious stones and metal to increase in value over 
time and that Mrs W would be aware of this. However, she wasnt aware quite how much her 
bracelet had increased in value, in the absence of a current valuation.
The cover to protect higher value items is optional under Mrs Ws policy and requires insured 
items to be specified. In these circumstances we look at how clear the insurer explained 
what was necessary in terms of valuation - and also if the consequences of not providing 
accurate information was made clear.
Ive looked at the policy documentation Mrs W received. It asks that she checks the 
information she provided in her insurance application is correct and to let it know 
immediately if not. The Questions and answers document says:
You have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to us. We assume you have 
conducted reasonable searches to obtain all the relevant information held by you and any 
other person. 
And: 
We only offer you home insurance products that meet your demands and needs for the 
amounts you have selected, and the specific covers you have requested. 
Under the section on Settling claims under content covers the policy terms say:
It is your responsibility to make sure that, at all times, the contents sum assured reflects the 
full value of the property insured. This is how much it would currently cost to replace each 
item as new (except for works of art when the full value is the current market value). You 
must keep the sum insured up to date when you buy new items 
If you fail to keep the amount insured at the full value (or current market value for works of 
art), we may reduce the amount we pay for each claim in proportion to the assessed shortfall 
in insurance. For example, if the limit of your contents cover is equal to 75% of the amount 
needed to replace all the contents, we will only pay 75% of your claim. The policy explains that if the sum insured isnt enough the policyholder is underinsured and 
a claim may be settled proportionately. I cant see that it gives advice on obtaining valuations 
prior to taking insurance. But the terms do say Mrs W should make a fair presentation of the 
risk by conducting reasonable searches. 
I dont think policyholders are generally experienced in calculating the values of their items - 
so it can be difficult for them to estimate whether they should be specified. In Mrs Ws case 
Im not persuaded she shouldve expected the bracelet had increased more than ten times in 
value since it was bought. The jeweller Mrs W contacted put its value at £1,200 and the 
comparable items shes shown advertised for sale are all under £2,000. I think this shows 
that it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs W to consider her bracelet was worth less than £2,000. 
Having considered the policy and circumstances of the claim, I dont think its fair for QIC to 
refuse any payment for Mrs Ws bracelet. I think a fair outcome is for it to pay her claim to up 
to the cover limit for unspecified items. I dont think it would be fair to require QIC to pay the 
full value its specialist advised. Had this been specified on the policy the premium for Mrs W 
may well have been greater. Payment of the claim to the limit for unspecified items is 
consistent with the approach our service has taken in other similar cases. I think its the fair 
approach in this case.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should:
pay the claim up to the policy limit of £2,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman