DRN-4288457
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs T complain about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the 
refusal to provide cover for Mrs T to drive in France, under the motor insurance policy they 
held.
Mr G, the policy holder, has acted as the main representative during the complaint process. 
So, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr G 
or Mrs T as Mr G throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr G took out a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Mrs T was included as a 
named driver on the policy, under the provisional UK license she held. Mrs T did hold a full 
US driving license but, as Mrs T had been in the UK for more than a year, she was unable to 
drive under this license as stipulated under the Road Traffic Act, 1988.
In the Spring of 2023, Mr G contacted AIC to confirm whether Mrs T would be covered to 
drive under the insurance policy in France, as they were planning to travel there later in the 
summer. AIC confirmed Mrs T wouldnt be permitted to drive in France under her UK 
provisional license, as per Frances own laws. So, they confirmed Mrs T wouldnt be insured 
to drive in France under the insurance policy they provided. Mr G was unhappy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Mr G thought AICs decision was unfair, as Mrs T held a full US license that she was able to 
use to drive in France. So, he thought AIC should cover Mrs T to drive in France on this 
basis and he wanted AIC to agree to provide this level of cover.
AIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the insurance policy 
provided Mr G and Mrs T with the same level of cover abroad, as it does in the UK. And as 
the policy only insured Mrs T to drive under her provisional UK license, this was the only 
license Mrs T would be insured to use. So, they didnt think they had done anything wrong 
when advising Mrs T wouldnt be insured to drive using her US license, which wasnt valid in 
the UK. And so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr G remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AIC had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy, when explaining Mrs T would only be insured to 
drive using her provisional UK license. So, they didnt think AIC had done anything wrong 
when refusing to cover Mrs T if she drove using her US license. And because of this, they 
didnt think AIC needed to do anything more. 
Mr G didnt agree. And he provided extensive comments explaining why. These included, 
and are not limited to, his belief the policy terms and conditions were vague and because of 
this, benefit of doubt should be given to him and Mrs T. He also didnt think AIC made it clear 
that, when they discussed a full license within the policy, this referred only to a full UK 
license. And he maintained his belief that, as Mrs T would be driving legally in France under 
her full US license, AIC should compromise and agree to offer cover, considering his 
disabilities and his inability to drive long distances. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I dont dispute the fact 
Mrs T holds a full US driving license. And that she would be legally able to drive in France, 
using this license. So, I do understand why, as Mr Gs insurance policy covers him to drive 
abroad and Mrs T is a named driver on this, Mr G would feel it is fair for AIC to cover Mrs T 
to drive on this basis. And, when AIC confirmed this wasnt the case, I can appreciate why 
Mr G may feel as though AICs decision was unreasonable.
But for me to say AIC should do something more, such as agree to provide additional cover 
for Mrs T to drive in France, I first need to be satisfied AIC have done something wrong. So, 
Id need to be satisfied theyve failed to act in line with the policy terms and conditions when 
refusing to cover Mrs T to drive in France. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to 
be satisfied that AIC acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. It is not my role, or the role of our service, to make 
legal determinations, as we are an alternative to the courts, rather than the court itself. So, 
while we can take into consideration any relevant law, we are unable to make a finding on 
whether any laws have been breached or broken. Instead, it is my role to think about the 
actions AIC have taken and decide whether I think they were fair and reasonable, in the 
individual circumstances of the complaint.
Ive seen the schedule of the policy Mr G held, which confirms Mrs T was included as a 
named driver and insured to drive under the provisional UK license she held. This is 
because legally Mrs T is unable to drive under her full US license in the UK, due to the 
length of time shes resided here. So, Im satisfied that the within the UK, AIC insured Mrs T 
to drive under her provisional license only.
And Ive seen within this schedule, under the policy features and benefits section, it explains 
that when driving abroad, the same level of cover as you have in the UK applies for up to 90 
consecutive days in the EU. Ive seen that this term is reiterated in the Insurance Product 
Information document, and in the policy terms and conditions where it explains under the 
heading Full policy cover abroad that This policy also includes the cover described in your 
schedule of insurance and Certificate of motor insurance for each trip up to 90 consecutive 
days. 
So, Im satisfied the policy documents make it reasonably clear that Mr G and Mrs T would 
receive the same level of cover as they hold in the UK, for up to 90 days, in France. And I 
think its clear Mrs T was only insured to drive on her provisional UK license. So, I think AIC 
were only obliged to provide cover for Mrs T to drive on this license when she was in France, 
and I think they acted in line with the policy when making this clear to Mr G.I recognise this had an impact on Mr G and Mrs T, as France doesnt permit drivers to drive 
on a foreign provisional license. But this is a decision made by the relevant law makers in 
France, and not AIC. So, I dont think AIC are responsible for this, nor would I expect them to 
make changes to their terms of cover to reflect this.
And while I appreciate Mrs T does have a US license which she can use to drive in France 
legally, I dont think the legality of this license in France impacts the insurance policy Mr G 
and Mrs T hold with AIC, which is a UK insurance policy. And as Ive already explained, I 
think this policy makes it reasonably clear Mrs T is insured to drive on her UK provisional 
insurance only. Should Mrs T wish to drive using her US license in France, she has the 
ability to purchase alternative insurance that will provide her with cover while she does so. 
So, because of the above, I think AIC have acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. And so, it follows that I dont think they need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr G Ive 
considered all the comments hes put forward when reaching my decision. But, as Ive 
explained above, I do think the policy terms were reasonably clear. And I think its 
reasonable for AIC to assume any reference to a full license within the policy would be taken 
as reference to a UK license, as the policy is designed to insure a car to be driven primarily 
in the UK.
I also wouldnt expect AIC to alter the terms of the cover to allow Mrs T to drive in France 
using her US license, as this would be altering the risk they agreed to take on at the 
inception of the policy. And it is within AICs own commercial decision making to decide the 
level of risk they are willing to take, which wouldnt be something our service is able to 
comment on or impact, as this falls under the remit of the industry regulator.
While I dont doubt the impact this has likely had on Mr G, considering his disability and the 
fact he cant drive long distances and the drive to France would be a considerable distance, I 
also must consider the fact Mr G had the option of purchasing alternative insurance to allow 
Mrs T to drive on her US license. And Im satisfied Mr G was aware of this option, as he 
referred to the financial implication of this in the complaint form he sent to our service. So, I 
dont think AIC can be responsible for any upset caused to Mr G, if he has indeed decided to 
cancel his trip.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman