DRN-3044482
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the transfer of two personal pensions to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) in 2015. His transfer proceeds were invested in a property development 
scheme that has since failed. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
responsible for his losses.
What happened
In 2015 Mr R transferred the benefits he had in two personal pensions (with one provider) to 
The Orbis SIPP administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). 
The proceeds of Mr Rs transfer were invested in Dolphin Capital, a German property 
development scheme that has since failed. The investment now looks to have little value. 
Mr R says Wellington Court is responsible for his losses.
Mr R complained to Wellington Court in 2018. In response, Wellington Court said Mr R has 
never been its customer, so it has no case to answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr R to 
Wellington Court is fraudulent. Mr R referred his complaint to us. 
In August 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the evidence that 
was available to me. I repeat what I said here:
Review of evidence as described in my provisional decision
1. Documents provided by Mr R and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr R and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP on Mr Rs behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the 
SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN Group 
(administrators and trustees) on 31 July 2015. The letter is signed on the behalf of 
Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable.
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the 
covering letter, this was signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather 
than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the 
one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has been printed by 
hand. Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An 
incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  
the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. 
The form was signed on 30 July 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr R on 15 July 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr R on 15 July 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr R had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the Company")
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum 
of £800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement
Mr R signed the form on 15 July 2015.
VI. Two Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Forms. These set out the details of 
Mr Rs two transfers, including the policy number of the two pensions he was 
transferring from and their transfer values. These were signed by Mr R 
on 15 July 2015.
VII. Various documents from Mr Rs transferring pension provider.
VIII. A Dolphin Capital loan note application form signed by Mr R (and a witness) on 
30 September 2015. The investment amount was recorded as £73,000.
 
2. Mr Rs recollections
Mr R hasnt provided us with any detailed recollections of the events in question. 
3. Information from Mr Rs previous pension provider
Mr Rs previous pension company provided information as part of the transfer process 
and in relation to our investigations. This information shows that, amongst other things, 
Mr R was previously invested in a with profits fund and a fund with a relatively high 
equity weighting and that he likely dealt with unregulated introducers in relation to his 
transfer.
4. Documents from Wellington Court
Ill come on to what Wellington Court has said in response to Mr Rs complaint later in 
my decision. But its worth pointing out at this stage that it hasnt provided any 
documents in relation to Mr Rs transfer because it says it didnt advise Mr R and that 
Mr R has never been a client of Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did some
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into the OrbisSIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of
safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of
transfer.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but 
it hasnt done so. [It did, however, provide notes of a meeting it had with the regulator, 
the FCA, in 2016 in which its work with GMTC was discussed. In my provisional 
decision I quoted from these notes. I havent done so here because it isnt essential to 
the outcome of the case.]  
5. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr R
Mr R transferred £9,661.72 and £68,043.19 from his two personal pensions to the Orbis 
SIPP on 11 September 2015. A 1% fee on the combined amount (along the lines of the 
initial fee in the Adviser Remuneration Form described above) would equal £777.05. 
According to his SIPP transaction statement, this exact amount was taken from Mr Rs 
transfer value on 6 October. It was recorded on his SIPP statement as a Wellington IFA 
fee. I can see the £777.05 was paid from the SIPP deposit account to the GMTC client 
account on 6 October. This amount was included with 45 other 1% fees for other 
individuals and the total amount, which came to £12,672.03, was then paid from the 
GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank account on 7 October.
6. Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Rs case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, for context I think its 
reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that 
has been collected in relation to Mr Rs case. Specifically:
I. GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal 
for some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  
Mr P  and the name of an introducer. 
II. Paperwork from other cases show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these transfers.
III. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed.
IV. Other payments to Wellington Court 
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Rs were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM 
ADVISER FEES.£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES.
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES. This payment included Mr Rs £777.05 fee.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Rs case and other similar cases. 
Its not necessarily comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries 
for September 2015 for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at 
least £87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in 
relation to over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible 
that payments were happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being 
received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 25 August 
and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August. This is because Wellington Court has 
only provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. I see no plausible reason 
why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington Court and Ill proceed 
on that basis. What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr R (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Rs pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had been paid a 1% advisory fee in 
relation to Mr Rs transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion because the 
documentary evidence showed Mr R (and others like him) agreed to pay a 1% advisory fee 
in relation to the Orbis SIPP and the investments intended to be held in the SIPP. I thought 
the documentary evidence persuasively showed that the 1% fees were paid to Wellington 
Court. These fees were, in aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court didnt query 
them at the time, and didnt provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt query them at 
the time, I concluded that the fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but 
were in line with what it was expecting for its involvement in the transfers in question. I 
therefore provisionally concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business 
relating to the transfer of pensions  including Mr Rs pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Rs complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr R was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr R brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also 
satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.
With regards to the merits of Mr Rs complaint, I noted Wellington Court doesnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the 1% advice fee it was paid in relation to Mr Rs transfer. I 
didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew it 
had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because  given
the advisory relationship between the parties  the key point was whether the transfer was
suitable. And, on this point, I was satisfied that the transaction wasnt suitable because Mr R 
ended up investing in a way that was beyond his risk tolerance.
I provisionally upheld Mr Rs complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right. I invited both parties to respond. Mr R had no further comments. 
Wellington Court made a number of comments, which I address below.
What did Wellington Court say in response?
Wellington Courts response contained, in aggregate, over 50 bullet points. Its arguments 
werent specific to Mr Rs case but were intended to apply to a number of similar cases. 
Because a number of its comments overlap, I think its reasonable to group and summarise 
Wellington Courts response as follows:
1. The Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt undertaken a thorough investigation into the 
complaint and the provisional decision includes findings that are unwarranted and not 
based on the evidence. The Financial Ombudsman Service is biased and is trying to 
frame Wellington Court.2. Evidence hasnt been shared; a full disclosure would be required in court.
3. There are no grounds for complaint because the complainants have never been clients 
of Wellington Court. Any transfer paperwork that refers to Wellington Court is fraudulent 
and paperwork that looks to have originated from Wellington Court has been cloned. 
Complainants testimony does little to prove Wellington Courts involvement and 
Wellington Court has testimony from at least one client that says it didnt advise him and 
had no role in arranging his pension. No evidence has been provided of any direct 
contact between Wellington Court and the complainants or Dolphin Capital (where many 
complainants invested). 
4. The adviser on the paperwork  Mr P from Wellington Court  was not a registered 
advisor and therefore couldnt give advice on the transfers in question.
5. GMTC accepted business directly from individuals or from unauthorised advisers and 
introducers. 
6. GMTC, and its associates, were running a scam. The FCA should have known this and 
advised Wellington Court and the Financial Ombudsman Service of this at the time. 
GMTC and others are now involved in a mammoth cover-up of what happened.
7. Wellington Court isnt responsible for the operational failures of GMTC or its regulatory 
supervision. It is being held liable because it is the last man standing. It may be the 
victim of a turf war going on between various regulatory agencies. It has been singled 
out for being an Irish company. 
8. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed to recognise the obligations of GMTC, in 
particular in relation to undertaking due diligence on the underlying assets held in its 
SIPPs.
9. Because the complainants werent clients of Wellington Court, it cant comment on their 
previous pension arrangements, or their attitude to risk and needs.
10. Wellington Courts advisory involvement with GMTC was limited to three clients, the files 
for which have previously been given to the FCA. It makes little sense that Wellington 
Court has files for these three clients yet doesnt have files for other clients that it 
supposedly advised.
11. Wellington Court wouldnt have risked its reputation and licence by supporting 
unregulated activities.
12. The claims management companies (CMCs) that represent many complainants are 
bringing unwarranted complaints for commercial gain and are being encouraged by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to do so. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed 
to report fraudulent activities of CMCs and their clients to the police. 
13. To resolve matters, Wellington Court has proposed the following:
A conference call with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigation to be conducted by Wellington Court on the Financial 
Ombudsman Services behalf, for an agreed fee.  14. Wellington Court reserves the right to take legal action against the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and any other parties.
Wellington Court has also provided telephone notes and emails which, in its view, support its 
position that the complainants cant recollect, and therefore couldnt have been clients of, 
Wellington Court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this means Ive considered everything Wellington Court has 
said, although I will limit my findings to those areas that I now consider to be relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint and the process by which that outcome has been reached. 
Interpreting the evidence
My starting point here, as it was in my provisional decision, is the evidence that points to 
Wellington Court being paid advisory fees in relation to a number of transfers to GMTC in 
2015. I outlined this evidence in my provisional decision. Ive repeated it in the review of 
evidence section above. To recap, the evidence was four-fold.
First, Mr R and many others signed an Adviser Remuneration Form which appointed Mr P 
of Wellington Court to provide advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP and any related 
investments held in that SIPP. The fee for that advice was recorded as being 1%.
Second, Mr Rs SIPP statement shows that a 1% Wellington IFA fee was taken from his 
two transfers on 6 October 2015. This amount (which totalled £777.05) was then paid from 
the SIPP deposit account to the GMTC client account and then included with the 1% fees for 
30 other individuals transferring to the Orbis SIPP and the total amount, which came to 
£12,672.03, was then paid into Wellington Courts bank account on 7 October 2015. 
Third, 1% fees along the same lines were paid from GMTC to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to a large number of other transfers to the Orbis SIPP over a six 
month period in 2015. Payments of at least £87,000 relating to at least 200 policies were 
paid in this period. The payment references were GM IFA FEES or something equally 
clear.
Fourth, Wellington Court didnt at any point query the above payments despite them being 
substantial and all clearly coming from the same source  GMTC. 
My view was, and remains, that this evidence is critical to the outcome of the complaint. It 
shows that many individuals  Mr R included  agreed to pay Wellington Court 1% of their 
transfer value for advice on the Orbis SIPP and their proposed investments. And it 
persuasively shows that Wellington Court received 1% payments in relation to those 
transfers. Wellington Court didnt query why it was receiving these fees. And its difficult to 
see how it could have overlooked the payments  they are simply too large to not notice. It 
would also have had to have overlooked the payments when preparing its financial accounts 
which also strikes me as being unlikely given the impact the fees had on its income in this 
period. So its reasonable to conclude from this that the fees were in line with what 
Wellington Court had been expecting from GMTC for its role in the transfers. Putting all this 
together, Im satisfied Wellington Court was paid a 1% advice fee for the transfer of Mr Rs 
pension and many others like it. Wellington Court hasnt directly addressed the money trail outlined in my provisional 
decision other than to repeat its arguments about being a victim of fraud. And it hasnt 
explained why (or even denied) it received payments of at least £87,000 from GMTC over a 
six month period, which is significant given how central it is to the outcome of the complaint. 
For completeness, however, Wellington Court has previously said it did some consultancy 
work for GMTC. It says this involved checking people werent giving up guaranteed benefits 
by transferring their pensions (which was business GMTC didnt want to be involved in).  
Wellington Court has never articulated in detail what its argument is in respect of its 
consultancy work. But it can only be that all the payments it received from GMTC were for its 
consultancy work or that its consultancy work meant the 1% payments from GMTC could 
easily have been overlooked which would give credence to its argument that the transfers 
were happening without its knowledge. 
I dont think the first argument stands up to much scrutiny because theres documentary 
evidence  outlined in my provisional decision and above  that persuasively shows the 
payments werent for consultancy work but instead related to 1% advice fees that were taken 
from transfer values and then paid by GMTC to Wellington Court.
With regards to the second argument, Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any details of 
the fees it earned for its consultancy work. And the bank statements it provided have been 
too heavily redacted to see the full pattern of payments Wellington Court received from 
GMTC. In my provisional decision, I did invite Wellington Court to provide unredacted bank 
statements for the period under review but it hasnt done so. So whilst its possible that the 
fees for its consultancy work were of a similar magnitude to the 1% initial fees outlined 
above, were paid around the same time and had similar payment references  which, taken 
together, could mean Wellington Court reasonably overlooked them  theres no evidence to 
support this. 
Also, as I said in my provisional decision, other financial advice firms did similar consultancy 
work in relation to transfers to GMTC. These firms charged a fixed fee of around £30 per 
case. So for Wellington Court to have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some 
payments from GMTC, it would have to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to 
make the numbers add up. Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But 
even with this assumption, the numbers dont look realistic. The charge per case would have 
to be implausibly high to generate an income high enough that Wellington Court could, 
reasonably, have overlooked the £87,000 advice fees it received from GMTC. By way of 
example, a charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to just check whether a pension had 
safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in order to produce an income in the 
region of £87,000. 
As I say, Wellington Court could have clarified matters by providing us with greater detail on 
its consultancy work and/or a more comprehensive record of the payments it did receive 
from GMTC. It did neither. Therefore, whilst I accept Wellington Court may have earned 
additional sums for its consultancy work, I dont consider it plausible that the fees it earned 
for such work could, realistically, have caused it to overlook the 1% advisory fees it was also 
receiving from GMTC. 
Wellington Court says responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically 
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a 
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court 
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from 
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration 
should speak for itself.In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received 
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington 
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried 
these payments at the time given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view, 
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  GMTC  so I dont see any 
practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the issue with GMTC (or even the 
police). The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the payments werent fraudulent 
but were, instead, in line with what Wellington Court was expecting to be paid for its 
involvement in the transfers. 
Wellington Court also points out that theres no evidence of there being any direct contact 
between it and the complainants (Mr R included). To support its case, it points to the 
recollections of the complainants, many of whom say they cannot remember dealing with 
Wellington Court. It also refers to one of its clients who says Wellington Court wasnt 
involved in his pension with GMTC. 
I covered this in my provisional decision, where I acknowledged that there wasnt any 
evidence of paperwork being sent to Wellington Court in relation to Mr Rs transfer, or any 
other transfer as far I was aware. And I made the point that based on their recollections 
complainants likely dealt primarily with unregulated introducers. So I can understand why 
they cant recall much, if anything, about Wellington Court. 
However, this doesnt preclude the possibility of Wellington Courts involvement in the 
transfers. GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before 
accepting any transfers as evidenced by its Important Risk Notices document. The 
paperwork described above was evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted a transfer as 
coming through an IFA  Wellington Court. As a result, the transfers went ahead and the 1% 
initial advice fee was taken from each transfer value  Mr Rs included  and paid to (and 
accepted by) Wellington Court. So whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with 
Mr R, it was still nonetheless engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer and 
investment  and the transfer of many other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual 
paperwork one would expect from an advice process, and the absence of substantive 
testimony about meetings with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means 
Wellington Court didnt properly advise Mr R, and others, despite being paid to do so.
I agree with Wellington Court when it says some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. 
For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC enclosing Mr Rs transfer papers was 
undated and signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. 
The signature on that letter is indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application 
Checklist was signed on Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is again 
indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the one on the covering letter). Under the 
signature, Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. And an 
incorrect FCA reference number was also provided. 
So, as I said in my provisional decision, there are question marks here. However, as I also 
went on to say in my provisional decision, my role is to make findings of fact based on the 
available evidence in order to establish whether this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, what the fair and 
reasonable outcome of the complaint should be. My role isnt to speculate beyond that. Taking all the above into consideration, I see no reason to change my findings of fact, which 
were  and remain  as follows:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of 
pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This includes the transfer of Mr Rs pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of fraudulent 
activity.
Wellington Courts other comments
Wellington Court says GMTC failed to undertake due diligence of the SIPPs intended 
investments. On a similar note, it questions whether the Financial Ombudsman Service and 
the FCA have investigated GMTC. 
As my remit here is to consider Mr Rs complaint against Wellington Court, I wont be 
investigating GMTCs due diligence or conducting a broader investigation into that business. 
Similarly, it is for Wellington Court, rather than the Financial Ombudsman Service, to report 
individuals and organisations to the police if it thinks doing so is warranted.
 
Wellington Court has said it is willing to help us get to the bottom of the claims for a fee. 
But, as Im sure Wellington Court will appreciate, we are an impartial dispute resolution 
service. Delegating an investigation to the respondent of the complaint would go against that 
impartiality. Besides, Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to provide all the 
evidence and arguments it thinks are relevant.  
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us in order to resolve this matter. Under the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, either party can request a hearing. It is for the 
ombudsman to consider whether the issues raised in such a request are material enough to 
warrant a hearing. 
Having read the case in its entirety once again, I havent seen anything that makes me think 
a hearing is required. Ive outlined the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my provisional 
decision. And Im satisfied theres nothing in that evidence that would necessitate me 
speaking to either party in order to better understand that evidence. Much of the evidence is 
paper based and, to my mind, incontrovertible (pension and bank statements showing 
money flowing from GMTC to Wellington Court for instance). Wellington Court hasnt 
explicitly denied receiving the large sums of money in question anyway. The paperwork that 
is more debateable  the transfer paperwork  has been debated extensively and I see no 
persuasive reason why a hearing would add significant insight to that debate. I also note that 
Wellington Court hasnt actually provided any specific reasons for why a fair decision can 
only be reached following a hearing. In the circumstances, and after considering all the 
evidence, arguments and relevant DISP rules, Im satisfied I can fairly determine this 
complaint without a hearing.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It doesnt say exactly what 
hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied Wellington Court has 
seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants, Mr Rs included. Indeed, its case 
relies heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork. Im also satisfied 
Wellington Court has seen copies of SIPP statements showing the 1% Wellington IFA fee 
being deducted from a number of transfer values, Mr Rs included. In my provisional 
decision, I recorded in detail the evidence that showed Mr Rs 1% fee being paid into 
Wellington Courts bank account. And I also recorded in detail the evidence that showed 
similar payments relating to other transfers being made to Wellington Court. Wellington 
Court hasnt directly referred to these payments in its response despite their importance to the complaint. It hasnt explicitly denied receiving those payments either, which would 
indicate acceptance of the evidence I outlined in my provisional decision on this matter. 
I also pointed out that because Wellington Court didnt provide complete bank statements, I 
only had evidence of it receiving some of the payments in question. But I said I thought it 
was reasonable  given the available evidence  to assume all the payments would have 
been received by Wellington Court. I invited Wellington Court to provide a more 
comprehensive set of bank statements if it disagreed with this assumption. It didnt do so.
Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made aware of, and had the 
opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my decision.
Jurisdiction
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought Mr Rs complaint was in the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I said:
Jurisdiction  in respect of the activities of Wellington Court
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one
or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to
that SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an 
advisory relationship between Wellington Court and Mr R. There is a lack of documentation
to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr R. Potentially
it didnt do anything (whether that was deliberate or an oversight isnt for me to speculate
on). It doesnt make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were
omissions in the provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less
regulated as a result.
In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG)
says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is,
arrangements that bring it about).
I consider it unlikely that Mr R would have transferred and invested in Dolphin Capital if it
hadnt been for Wellington Courts involvement. GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm before it would accept a transfer. Mr R signed up for advice on the transfer and
investment. He paid for that advice too. So I consider it unlikely that he would have
proceeded if Wellington Court had indicated he shouldnt do so. Im satisfied, therefore, that
Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Rs transfer and
investment. In short, what Wellington Court did here constitutes making arrangements under
Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Taking everything into account. Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising
on and arranging pensions and investments.Jurisdiction  was Mr R an eligible complainant?
DISP 2.7 covers what is required for someone to be an eligible complainant. Broadly
speaking, there are two requirements that need to be met, relating to the entity bringing the
complaint (DISP 2.7.3) and the relationship between that entity and the business being
complained about (DISP 2.7.6).
Im satisfied that Mr R meets the requirements of DISP 2.7.3 because he is a consumer
(which is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that
individuals trade, business, craft or profession).
With regards the second requirement, Mr Rs complaint must also arise from matters
relevant to a relationship with the business he is complaining about (referred to as the
respondent in the rules). DISP 2.7.6 sets out 17 different types of relationship. The first of
these is the relevant one for the purposes of Mr Rs complaint:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money
holder of the respondent"
Clearly, for the reasons given previously, Wellington Court doesnt think Mr R was its
customer. I disagree.
Mr R signed a document agreeing to Wellington Court to provide him with advice and to pay
Wellington Court 1% for that advice. That 1% fee was duly taken from his SIPP and 
recorded as a Wellington IFA fee on his SIPP statement. Ive seen nothing to show Mr R
queried the fee when it was taken so I think its evident he wasnt, at that point, concerned
about paying advice fees to Wellington Court. Clearly there doesnt appear to be any
documents showing what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for that advice fee. But
Mr R doesnt strike me as being a particularly experienced investor so he wouldnt
necessarily have known what to expect. So I think he would therefore have reasonably
considered himself a customer of Wellington Court. And from Wellington Courts perspective,
its difficult to argue Mr R wasnt its customer given it knowingly accepted the 1% payment in
relation to Mr R and the transfer wouldnt have happened if it hadnt been for its involvement.
In short, Mr R signed up for advice. He paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and
accepted, payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical
to Mr R transferring and investing in the way he did. So all things considered. Im satisfied
there was a customer relationship here.
I should point out at this point that I have seen similar cases where the advisory firm has had
a relationship with another business (the introducer firm for instance) which involved it
checking some aspects of a persons transfer paperwork. In such a situation, its likely that
there is a business-to-business relationship (between the advisory firm and the introducer
firm) rather than a direct relationship between the person transferring and the advisory firm.
This has implications for the eligibility of the person bringing the complaint under DISP 2.7.6
because the complainant doesnt appear to have been a customer of the respondent.
This argument doesnt appear to apply here. Yes, Wellington Court may well have
undertaken some consultancy work for GMTC. But, as outlined above, it hasnt provided
enough information to establish what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC was.
And, for the reasons given above, there was a relationship between the complainant, Mr R,
and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any consultancy arrangement that may havebeen in place.
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the
merits of a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against
a regulated business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be
brought within the time limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on
from an establishment in the UK. Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr R
brought his complaint to us within the relevant time limits.
With all the above in mind. Im satisfied that this is a complaint I can consider.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to jurisdiction except for 
its broader arguments about Mr R never being a client of Wellington Court. Ive dealt with 
those broader arguments and how they related to jurisdiction in my provisional decision. Ive 
addressed those arguments once again in my comments above and my conclusions havent 
changed. So, in the absence of any specific arguments about jurisdiction, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings in this area. 
The merits of Mr Rs complaint
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. I said: 
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced
potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to
transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an
advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show
what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due
to an oversight on its part - that is, it didnt fully understand what it should have done given
the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either
way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window dressing,
providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of
transfers.
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Rs
financial needs and circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the
transaction wasnt suitable for Mr R. I say this because Dolphin Capital was a non-
mainstream, high risk, unregulated investment. Mr R doesnt appear to have had the degree 
of investment knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would have required. And it 
also looks like he allocated most of his pension savings to just this one investment which 
strikes me as being an unsuitable strategy even for the most knowledgeable and least risk 
averse investors. Its also not apparent to me from the available evidence why Mr R would 
have needed to amalgamate his pensions in a SIPP, especially given the costs involved in 
doing so. All things considered, therefore, I dont think the transfer was suitable.
That said, it strikes me that Mr R had some interest in reviewing his investment strategy
because that seems to have been behind his decision to think about a transfer in the first
place. And it looks like he was a medium risk investor given his previous pensions were
invested in a with-profits policy and a fund with a relatively high equity weighting. My
approach to compensation, which is set out below, reflects these considerations.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to what Ive said except 
for its broader arguments about Mr R never being a client of Wellington Court. I addressed 
these issues in my provisional decision. I revisited the same issues earlier in this final 
decision and my conclusions havent changed. I also havent been provided with any 
arguments or evidence from either party that makes me think my assumptions regarding Mr Rs needs and circumstances at the time of the transfer were incorrect  It follows from this 
that I remain satisfied with the approach I took with regards to the merits of Mr Rs complaint 
and the best approach to take in order to compensate him.
Putting things right
What should Wellington Court do?
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts actions. Its not possible to say precisely
what Mr R would otherwise have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr R fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr R is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. Here, its 
reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age. 
 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax
from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should
give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis
SIPPStill existsfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my
final
decision8% simple per
year from date
of final
decision to
date of
settlement (if
compensation
is not paid
within 28 days
of the business
being notified
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Wellington Court should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mr R 
provides an undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive from the 
investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Wellington Court will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Wellington 
Court should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of Wellington Courts actions. But to close the SIPP and
prevent further fees from being incurred, the illiquid investment needs to be removed. If
Wellington Court cant do this, Mr R is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assumefive years of future SIPP fees. So, if Wellington Court cant buy the investment, it should pay
an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current full tariff. This is in addition
to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that Mr R 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
To compensate Mr R, Wellington Court Financial Services Limited must take the steps 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman