DRN-3662889
The complaint
Mr P1 and Mrs P, as representatives of the estate of Mr P, complain that Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) has unfairly refused to meet a claim they made on an 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P1 and Mrs P are representing the estate of their late son, Mr P. 
Mr P was killed in a tragic road accident. He held motor insurance with LV that would 
potentially pay £10,000 under a personal accident clause.
Mr P1 and Mrs P claimed on behalf of the estate. LV considered the claim, but said it 
wouldnt meet the claim as Mr P hadnt been wearing a seat belt when the accident 
occurred. It said the policy specifically excluded cover in these circumstances.
Mr P1 and Mrs P didnt think that was a fair reason for LV to not meet the claim, as they 
believe whether or not Mr P wore a seatbelt would have made no difference to the outcome 
of the accident. LV didnt change its stance when Mr P1 and Mrs P complained, so they 
asked us to review their complaint. 
Our investigator concluded that LV had applied the terms and conditions fairly when deciding 
if it need meet the claim, and noted that a coroners report confirmed Mr P hadnt been 
wearing a seatbelt at the time of the accident. He didnt think he could ask LV to meet the 
claim.
Mr P1 and Mrs P dont agree, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to offer my condolences to Mr P1 and Mrs P. I do understand that this is a very 
difficult time for them.
Im afraid Im unable to uphold their complaint. This is for much the same reason as our 
investigator gave, but I have also considered the content of the police report about the 
accident and the witness statements it contained. So I want to assure Mr P1 and Mrs P that 
Ive looked at all the available evidence before reaching my conclusions.
The motor insurance policy Mr P held included a benefit of £10,000 if either he, Mr P1 or Mrs 
P  and Mr Ps partner if he had one  were injured whilst in the car. This is described in a 
list of the benefits provided by the policy. Immediately next to this list is a list of whats not 
covered. Included in the list is that theres no cover if a seatbelt isnt being worn when its a 
legal requirement to wear one.
Theres been no argument that the law didnt require Mr P to wear a seatbelt, and he was 
driving on a public road at the time of the accident. Both the coroners report and the police 
report say that Mr P wasnt wearing a seatbelt. 
Mr P1 and Mrs P say they were told by the police that even if Mr P had been wearing a 
seatbelt it wouldnt have helped. So they dont think LV should apply the exclusion to the 
claim. I have no reason to doubt Mr P1 and Mrs Ps were told this, so I checked the reports 
carefully (especially the police report) to see if that opinion was included. Im afraid it wasnt. 
Without some independent support for this opinion I cant conclude that LV has been unfair 
when applying the exclusion to the claim. LV has said it will consider any further evidence Mr 
P1 and Mrs P can provide, and thats what Id expect it to do. But I dont think it needs to do 
more than it already has without this.
My final decision
My decision is that I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 202329 December 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman