DRN-4330995
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made mistakes with 
a series of loan repayments and interest payments. They want NatWest to investigate the 
lending, establish whether any mistakes have been made and take corrective action if 
necessary.  
What happened
Mrs K and Mr S are business customers of NatWest. Since 2008, they have taken out the 
following business loans from NatWest either personally or through limited company P:
£550,000 in February 2008  personal business loan (Loan 1)
£450,000 in October 2008 - personal business loan (Loan 2)
£100,000 in October 2008  limited company P loan (Loan 3) 
£400,000 in February 2016  personal business loan (Loan 4).
Mrs K and Mr S and P made a series of repayments towards loans 1, 2 and 3. In February 
2016, Mrs K and Mr S put the proceeds of sale from a property towards the outstanding 
balance on Loan 1. Loan 4 was then used to refinance the outstanding balances on loans 1 
to 3 so that they could be closed. NatWest says loan 4 was fully repaid and closed in July 
2022.
In June 2021, Mrs K and Mr S complained to NatWest after they calculated that the 
outstanding balances on loans 1 to 3 should have been nearer £191,000 so loan 4 should 
not have been for £400,000.
NatWest said that the calculations Mrs K and Mr S provided didnt include interest. So, 
NatWest didnt agree that it had made a mistake.
Mrs K and Mr S were unhappy that NatWest failed to provide a breakdown of the 
repayments made together with copies of loan agreements. Mrs K and Mr S wanted to check 
the repayments as there is a significant difference between their calculations and those of 
NatWest.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He didnt 
think the discrepancy between Mrs K and Mr Ss calculations and those of NatWest was due 
to them not taking account of interest charges. Instead, the investigator thought the 
difference in figures was due to a series of international payment transfers made from the 
account for loan 1 between August 2010 and February 2014.
The investigator said he couldnt identify any error by NatWest when calculating the balance 
of loan 4. However, as the discrepancy between Mrs K and Mr Ss calculations appeared to 
arise from not factoring in the international payments, the investigator said NatWest should 
provide complete statements for each account if Mrs K and Mr S accepted his assessment.
After Mrs K and Mr S asked for the complete statements so they could comment further, the 
investigator explained that if they accepted his assessment, then part of his recommendation 
was that NatWest should provide the statement records.
A second investigator took over and reached the view that part of Mrs K and Mr Ss
complaint had been made outside the time limits which apply in our rules. The second
investigator said she agreed with the first investigator that Mrs K and Mr Ss complaint
shouldnt be upheld. But that as they wanted an ombudsman to make a final decision, she
didnt think that we had the power to look into the entire complaint.
The second investigator said that due to the age of loans 1, 2 and 3, it wouldnt be possible 
to consider a complaint about them. She did say that it was possible for this service to 
consider a complaint about loan 4.
Mrs K and Mr S thought that the investigator has made a mistake as they made their 
complaint within six years from 2016. Mrs K and Mr S said that it appears NatWest has 
provided nothing to show that it hasnt made a mistake and question why NatWest doesnt 
have any evidence when Mrs K and Mr S have been able to provide evidence.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 August 2023 which said:
I first want to clarify something about the scope of this complaint. When Mrs K and 
Mr S complained to us in 2021, they provided their own repayment calculations for 
loans 1 and 2 but also referred to the outstanding balance on loan 3. By Mrs K and 
Mr Ss calculations in their complaint form, the merged outstanding balances on 
loans 1, 2 and 3 came to just over £191,000 as at 2016. So, Mrs K and Mr S couldnt 
understand why loan 4 was for £400,000 instead of £200,000.
As loan 3 was taken by limited company P, rather than Mrs K and Mr S as individuals 
and because P hasnt complained about the loan repayments, the investigators 
havent said much about loan 3. However, as it appears that loan 3 formed part of the 
lending consolidation in February 2016, I have referred to it in my provisional 
decision.
The rules under which we operate are set by the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority. These are known as the DISP rules and they set out what complaints we 
can and cant consider.
DISP 2.8 sets out the rules about when the ombudsman can investigate complaints. 
DISP 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communications; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgment or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 
or .
.
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the 
complaint where the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R have 
expired
DISP 2.8.2 (2) means that this service can only consider a complaint if it has been 
raised within six years of the event complained about or, if later, within three years of 
when the complainant should reasonably have been aware of their cause for 
complaint.
Part of the purpose of my provisional decision is to address what we can and cant 
consider as part of this complaint. NatWest thinks that as loans 1 and 2 were opened 
in 2008, this service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about them as 
Mrs K and Mr S didnt bring their complaint until 2021 i.e. more than six years later. 
This means any complaint about loans 1 and 2 is outside the first part of the time limit 
set down at DISP 2.8.2.
The second investigator thinks that as loans 1, 2 and 3 were consolidated in 2016, 
Mrs K and Mr S should have been aware at this point they had cause to complain. As 
Mrs K and Mr S didnt complain about the lending until 2021 (and P hasnt brought a 
complaint at all), more than three years has passed, which means the complaint 
about loans 1 and 2 (and therefore 3) falls outside the second part of the time limit in 
DISP 2.8.2.
I disagree that a complaint about loans 1 to 3 falls outside the time limits set down in 
the DISP rules because the basis of the complaint is that the settlement figure used 
for the consolidation in 2016 was incorrect. So, the event complained about took 
place in 2016 which was less than six years before Mrs K and Mr S complained. But 
even if Im wrong about that, its not in question that Mrs K and Mr Ss complaint 
about loan 4 was referred to us in time. As Mrs K and Mr S are essentially disputing 
loan 4 by saying that the sum advanced should have been half the amount that it 
was, it has been necessary to look back at loans 1 to 3, to try and determine whether 
NatWest has correctly accounted for the payments to and from each loan account 
when calculating the closing balances.
NatWest has already provided this service with full statements for loans 1, 2 and 3. 
Given the age of loans 1, 2 and 3, NatWest doesnt hold copy agreements which I 
think is understandable. From reviewing the statements, I cant see that NatWest has 
miscalculated the loan balances. It looks to me like the total amount of the 
outstanding balances on loans 1, 2 and 3 (taking account of the proceeds of a 
property sale of £217,000) was over £390,000 in February 2016. This would tie in 
with the amount advanced by loan 4 in 2016.
I dont intend any disrespect to Mrs K and Mr S but I dont think their calculations for 
loans 1 and 2 are correct. For example, they appear to have applied the loan repayments for loan 2, against loan 1 and vice versa. Mrs K and Mr Ss calculations 
also dont seem to account for the quarterly interest debits applied to loans 1 and 2. 
Although Mrs K and Mr S say that theyd been paying interest prior to the loan actual 
loan repayments, this isnt reflected on the statements provided by NatWest.
I can also see from the statement for loan 1 provided by NatWest that there were a 
series of debits marked ITL. These debits increased the outstanding loan balance 
by £76,000. The ITL statement abbreviation is usually used for international 
payments. Given the time that has passed, NatWest has limited information about 
these debits which is understandable. However, NatWest has provided a note from 
August 2010 which indicates that Mrs K and Mr S held an interest hedging product or 
facility. It is referred to as a 10 year swap and is likely to have been used to manage 
interest rate risks. I appreciate Mrs K and Mr S might not recall the product given the 
time that has passed. However, it seems unlikely to me that NatWest made a 
mistake and included debits which werent made by Mrs K or Mr S at the time.
As Im not persuaded that NatWest made a mistake when calculating the balances 
on loans 1 and 2 and there doesnt seem to be any disagreement over loan 3, I dont 
find NatWest needs to make any corrections to loan 4. If Mrs K and Mr S disagree, 
they have the chance to provide further evidence before I make my final decision.
Further submissions
NatWest didnt make any further submissions in response to my provisional decision but Mrs 
K and Mr S, through their representative Ms K, remained unhappy. In summary Ms K said:
interest payments were made prior to when the loan repayments commenced and 
some of these had been paid from the account for which she provided a statement 
she made it clear to the previous investigator that no international payments had 
been made and that he investigated this on her behalf
I had not taken account of the statement for the account from which the loan 
repayments were debited 
I had ignored her request for NatWest to provide calculations and a copy of the loan 
agreement
she calculated the interest separately and provided this when the complaint was first 
made
loan 3 had no relevance to this complaint as it is for a separate identity from the 
complainants
I asked our investigator to go back to Ms K with some points of clarification. In summary, I 
said:
I referred to loan 3 as Mrs K and Mr S referred to it when they first complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman and because it was settled on the same day as loans 1 and 2 
 which indicated to me that loan 3 was included as part of the refinancing in 
February 2016.
I hadnt ignored Ms Ks calculations but didnt think they accurately reflected what 
had happened with the loan accounts. Although over £304,000 of loan repayments and £217,00 from the proceeds of a property sale were applied to reduce the balance 
on loan 1, there were also interest charges of more than £63,000, ITL payments of 
almost £77,000 and some other debits totalling almost £8,000. This left a balance 
outstanding in 2016 of just over £173,000.
I wasnt going to ask NatWest to provide further calculations as I was satisfied it had 
already supplied the relevant loan account statements
Based on the evidence I had, I was disinclined to conclude that NatWest had made a 
mistake with the payments marked ITL
The statement Ms K recently provided showed monthly standing orders and debits 
marked SBT which corresponded with the statements for loans 1 and 2. This made it 
difficult for me to decide that NatWests loan statements were wrong. 
interest payments made against loan 1 before 2010 didnt reduce the opening 
balance of £550,000 as there was a capital repayment holiday. As the repayments 
were interest only, they didnt appear on the statement for loan account 1.
Ms K responded to my points of clarification with her calculation that around £793,700 of 
repayments had been made leaving a total outstanding balance on the loans of just over 
£206,000.  
Ms K said that even if you include the ITL debits, it still wouldnt add up to an outstanding 
balance of £400,000. However, Ms K said that as the hedging product had been mis-sold, it 
should not have been included in any outstanding balance.
Ms K cant understand why NatWest is unable to provide a calculation or loan agreement 
when she has provided evidence, calculations, and explanations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs K and Mr S but after considering everything that Ms K said in 
response to my provisional decision and my points of clarification, I still dont think NatWest 
made a mistake with the loans. 
Despite what Ms K says about her calculations being correct, the fundamental thing for me is 
that NatWests statements for loans 1, 2 and 3, show the relevant opening balances, 
followed by a series of credits and debits. In February 2016 the closing balances across the 
three loans totalled more than £390,000 rather than the figure Ms K has provided of around 
£206,000.
As Ive explained to Ms K, any interest repayments made between 2008 and 2010 were not 
applied to the capital balance for loan 1. Once Mrs K and Mr S started to repay both the 
capital and interest on the loans, the quarterly interest debits increased the outstanding 
balances which were then reduced by the monthly loan repayments  all of which have been 
accounted for in the loan statements. 
Ms K would like to see a calculation for loan 4 but Im satisfied that the statements NatWest 
has provided for loans 1, 2 and 3, show how it has calculated the outstanding balances for 
each loan. The amount required to repay the combined outstanding balance on loans 1, 2 
and 3 was just over £394,000. As Ive said above  this seems to fit with the £400,000 refinancing loan in 2016. 
From looking at the bank statement that Ms K recently provided, the credits and debits on 
loan accounts 1 and 2 tally with this statement. This makes it difficult for me to decide that 
NatWest made a mistake or failed to properly credit the loan accounts.
I can appreciate Ms Ks frustration that NatWest hasnt provided a copy of the agreement for 
loan 4 but I accept that NatWest no longer holds a copy. I also dont think I need to see the 
agreement for loan 4 to decide that NatWest didnt make a mistake with the amount it 
advanced to repay the outstanding balances on loans 1, 2 and 3.
Ms K says that the hedge fund product was mis-sold but I dont have enough evidence to 
decide that this was the case. I also think that if Mrs K and Mr S thought the product was 
mis-sold back in 2008, it would have been reasonable to expect them to have complained far 
sooner. 
For all the reasons outlined above, I dont consider NatWest made a mistake with loan 4 so I 
dont require it to take further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman