DRN-3684498
The complaint
Ms L complains about the affordability of a loan Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans lent to her in August 2014. Ms L also says Everyday Loans didnt freeze the 
interest on her loan when she struggled to repay.
What happened
Everyday Loans lent Ms L one loan in August 2014, the loan was for £3,587  which 
included the main loan and a secondary loan
Ms L complained to Everyday Loans about its lending decision, in response Everyday Loans 
said Ms L had complained outside the time limits that apply. The adjudicator thought we 
could look at Ms Ls complaint, but Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. An ombudsman looked at this point and decided the complaint was 
one this service could look into.
Following the ombudsman decision, the adjudicator looked into the substance of Ms Ls 
complaint and thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to her. The adjudicator said Ms L 
was significantly indebted and couldnt afford to take on further borrowing. Everyday Loans 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Ms L was borrowing to 
consolidate her other loans and she had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan 
repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Ms Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Everyday Loans treated 
Ms L fairly and reasonably when it provided them with the loan.
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms L 
would be able to repay their loan in a sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time? 
Ultimately, did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans has provided information to show before it agreed to lend, it searched Ms 
Ls credit file, saw her most recent payslip and her bank statements for three months. I think 
based on the term and the cost of the loan, those checks were reasonable.
However, I dont think Everyday Loans reacted sufficiently to the information those checks 
revealed. Although Ms L was consolidating two of her credit card debts, it should have been 
clear to Everyday Loans she was dependent on credit and was borrowing for living.
The bank statements Everyday Loans saw showed;
Ms L was using a significant portion of her overdraft limit and the account wasnt in 
credit on any of the statements it saw.
Ms L was borrowing from several payday lenders.
Ms L was over the limit on some of her credit cards and had made cash withdrawals 
from a credit card.
I think all these factors together should have alerted Everyday Loans that Ms L was likely 
going to struggle to make the monthly repayment of £257.43 over the 36-month term of the 
loan. Even with the debt consolidation, Ms L was still going to pay a significant portion of her 
monthly income towards unsecured lending. Ms Ls position wasnt sustainable and, in the 
circumstances, Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to her and it needs to put things right.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way. Ms L has said 
Everyday Loans didnt freeze interest when she struggled to repay the loan. From what Ms L 
said she struggled to repay the loan and had a repayment plan but struggled to keep that up.
Everyday Loans is expected to treat its customers in financial difficulties positively and 
depending on the situation different measures may be appropriate, theres however no 
automatic requirement for Everyday Loans to freeze interest but that isnt to say it wont be 
appropriate in some circumstances.
Although I havent seen information about Ms Ls circumstances when she struggled to 
repay the loan or how Everyday Loans reacted, I think the measures to put things right 
below should redress this point.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms L to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, but 
she has paid interest and charges including life cover charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to her. As Ms L has lost out, Everyday Loans should;
Refund all interest and charges Ms L paid towards the loan including the associated 
life cover charges;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ls credit file about the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for oneMy final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ls complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman