DRN-2604487
The complaint
Miss L complains about the service that she received from Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
(Quilter). Miss L says that she was promised a full financial review but despite several 
meetings, no recommendations were provided. Miss L complains that she has been charged 
for a service that she didnt receive.
Miss L is represented by her partner, Mr W.
What happened
Miss Ls portfolio was acquired by Quilter when they took over the firm where she held her 
investments. Miss L met with adviser from Quilter in February 2018 and this meeting was 
used as an introduction and to discuss her financial details.
Further meetings were held with the adviser and Miss L says that she discussed all aspects 
of her finances. The meetings were held in conjunction with Mr W and his details were also 
discussed.
Mr W received recommendations for parts of his portfolio, but Miss L did not receive any 
recommendations following the meetings with the adviser.
The original adviser was replaced with another adviser and Miss L tried to arrange a meeting 
but did not receive a response. In December 2019, another adviser from Quilter contacted 
Miss L to introduce himself and to arrange a meeting.
A meeting was arranged and Miss L went through her financial details again with the new 
adviser. Although Miss Ls partner received recommendations for parts of his portfolio, Miss 
L did not receive any recommendations.
Miss L and Mr W complained to Quilter on 25 October 2019 who investigated the complaint. 
Quilter acknowledged that there had been delays in the time taken to deal with her financial 
reviews and the fact that she had not received a summary of her policies and upheld her 
complaint.
Quilter offered a refund of fees of £56.96 and £150 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused bringing the total redress to £206.96.
Miss L did not accept Quilters offer and referred her complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed her complaint. The investigator thought that Quilter had acted unfairly 
and upheld her complaint.
The investigator thought that Quilter should refund the fees and add 8% simple interest on 
this amount. The investigator also thought that the award for trouble and upset should be 
increased to £500.
Both Miss L and Quilter did not agree with the redress that the investigator had awarded and 
asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I know that Miss L and Quilter feel 
strongly about the complaint and did not agree with the redress awarded by the investigator 
so I will explain why I have reached my decision.
As the actual circumstances of the complaint are not in dispute and Quilter have 
acknowledged that the service was not acceptable, its not my intention to go over the 
circumstances of the complaint in detail. 
In their submission to the service, Quilter have raised a couple of objections to the award 
made by the investigator:
8% interest added to the refund of fees that were levied
Trouble and upset award of £500
8% interest added to the refund of fees that were levied
Quilter say that Miss L has not been denied use of these funds because if they were not 
levied then they would have remained invested. They say that Miss Ls holdings would have 
been representative of the investment risk that she was prepared to accept but the 
investigator in his award has provided a guaranteed return of 8% on monies that were 
intended to be left invested. Quilter say that this is clearly incorrect.
In response to the challenge made by Quilter, the investigator said that had Miss L been 
aware that she was not going to receive the reviews she was expecting, she would have 
transferred her investments elsewhere.
The investigator said that as no reviews took place, he couldnt be certain what investments 
would have been chosen but if recommendations had been made, he would have been able 
to compare to a relevant benchmark for comparison. 
The investigator also said that Miss L had indicated that her investments may not have been 
in line with her attitude to risk so this was another reason where he couldnt be sure of what 
benchmark would be appropriate.
I have considered what Quilter have said in relation to the 8% award of interest to be paid 
and have also reviewed what our investigator has said in his response. I think the approach 
that the investigator has used is fair and reasonable.
I agree with the investigators view that had Miss L known that a full review of her portfolio 
would not be carried out then she would probably have transferred to another provider. 
Quilter have said that her funds would have remained invested in line with her attitude to 
risk, but this statement is in doubt as the meeting notes indicate that Miss L may have had a 
different attitude to risk.
I am not persuaded by Quilters argument that the funds would have remained invested and 
subject to normal investment risk as it is unclear if Miss Ls attitude to risk would have 
remained unchanged. As no recommendations were made, the service cant make any 
benchmark comparison. In the absence of this information, I think that the award of 8% 
interest on the fees to be refunded is the fairest option available.Trouble and upset award of £500
In their submission to the service, Quilter did not agree with the investigator that the award 
for trouble and upset should be increased from £150 to £500. They said that their offer was 
in line with what the service would recommend to a business faced with a fee issue.
The investigator said that after Quilter had offered £150, Miss L had a further 12-month 
delay and she had to provide the same information all over again. Miss L was also told that 
despite a full financial review being offered in the final response to her, she was told that this 
would not be provided.
In her submission to the service, Miss L said that she had accepted the original offer of £150 
in order to move things along but as the issues remained unresolved, she felt that the offer 
of £500 was too low and should be increased.
I have considered both submissions and I think that the offer of £500 for the trouble and 
upset caused is fair and reasonable. Quilters original offer was made before Miss L 
experienced further delays and they did not provider her with a full financial review. 
Miss L has said that the offer of £500 is too low and does not consider the stress, trouble 
and upset that has been caused by Quilters actions. Although I sympathise with Miss L that 
she has been inconvenienced and I have no doubt that this has been a stressful time for her, 
the award of £500 is in line with what the service would normally award in situations like this.
In summary, I think that the awards made by the investigator are fair and reasonable and I 
am not going to suggest any changes to these awards or how they are calculated.
 
Putting things right
I require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to undertake the following actions:
Refund any fees that were applied to Miss Ls account from February 2018
Add 8% simple interest to this amount until payment is made 
Make a payment of £500 for the trouble and upset caused 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman