DRN-2233505
The complaint
Mr H and Ms V complain that TSB Bank Plc unfairly refused a further borrowing application 
on their residential mortgage. 
What happened
Mr H and Ms V hold a residential mortgage with TSB. In December 2018 they approached 
TSB to apply for further borrowing. Their intention was to buy a property abroad that they 
would rent out and sometimes occupy themselves.
Following initial affordability checks Mr H and Ms V were provided with an agreement in 
principle. The application was later declined. The underwriting notes show the refusal was 
based on concerns about Mr H and Ms Vs intentions for the security property and their 
employment circumstances. Ms Vs nationality was also noted in the underwriters decision.
Mr H and Ms V have presented various reasons why theyre dissatisfied with the overall 
application and appeals process. In summary, they complain that multiple errors were made 
during the initial application process. They werent given a fair opportunity to clarify issues or 
provide necessary supporting evidence  both during the initial application and the appeals 
process. They say this led to a lending decision based on factual inaccuracies and 
assumptions. Due to the reference made to Ms Vs nationality in the underwriting notes, they 
feel discriminated against. They feel theyve been lied to and misled throughout the process, 
which they feel took too long to conclude. 
As a result, Mr H and Ms V are seeking compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused. In particular, the loss of time and income as a result of going through the application 
and the impact this has had on their investment opportunity. They also want TSB bank Plc to 
waive their early repayment charge (ERC) so they can find funding from elsewhere.
A formal complaint was logged with TSB in April 2019. In response TSB said it was not able 
to overturn the underwriters lending decision and it didnt agree to waive the ERC 
associated with their mortgage. It did however accept that there were some unnecessary 
delays that could have been avoided. TSB paid Mr H and Ms V £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr H and Ms V brought their complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked in to things and upheld this complaint in part. He felt that whilst its 
ultimately for the lender to decide whether an application for borrowing should be accepted 
or not, a more thorough application and underwriting process should have taken place. He 
felt TSB should allow Mr H and Ms V to submit a further application without any associated 
fees and awarded a further £200 to reflect the trouble and upset caused. He explained why 
he could not recommend TSB waive the ERC.
Both parties responded with further comments. Ill summarise both in turn.
TSB responded to say that it accepted the recommendation to increase the compensation 
award to £300. It accepted that Mr H and Ms V could submit a new application but did not 
agree to waive any associated fees. It explained the fee, if any, would be product related and 
as such its not possible to waive it. There may be products that dont charge an application 
fee. Its for the customer to decide which product theyd prefer. No fees are applicable if the 
application is declined.
Mr H and Ms V responded on a couple of occasions with various comments in response to 
the investigators opinion. In summary they said:
they were concerned about the fairness aspect of a further application;
they asked we recommend TSB share all documents and underwriting notes as part 
of any further application;
and extend any mortgage offer for longer than three months, in light of the current 
pandemic and the restrictions this poses on them and their plans;
they asked for clarity on whether any decision to decline the lending based on 
nationality (whether incorrectly recorded or not) was in breach of the Equality Act;
they felt the compensation amount of £300 didnt fairly reflect the impact on them.
Out investigator responded to Mr H and Ms Vs comments in detail. After careful 
consideration he explained why his outcome remained the same.
Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely to have happened, in light of 
the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Although Ive read and considered all submissions, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. No discourtesy is intended here, but this reflects the informal service we provide. If 
I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Lenders can use their commercial judgement about to whom to lend and on what basis, if 
they act fairly and reasonably. Lending policies are something which each lender puts in 
place to ensure risks remain manageable, and they are allowed a broad discretion  
provided they exercise it fairly and in line with the rules  in deciding whether or not to lend. 
A lender doesnt have provide a reason for refusing an application. 
In Mr H and Ms Vs case, the evidence shows that TSB wasn't willing to lend because it had 
concerns about Mr H and Ms Vs intentions for the security property and their employment 
circumstances. Mr H and Ms Vs application couldn't meet TSB's lending policies. Although it 
does have a broad discretion, Ill need to consider whether TSB made a fair decision.
Mr H and Ms V understand that its the banks prerogative whether to lend or not. But they 
say in this instance, the decision has been reached unfairly and the refusal is based on 
assumptions and discrimination. 
Mr H and Ms V complain that multiple errors were made during the initial application 
process. Ive looked through the application notes to establish the information recorded. 
Because the mortgage appointment took place in branch, Im unable to ascertain the conversation that took place and whether information Mr H and Ms V provided was correctly 
recorded. 
Nevertheless, from the application notes and from what Mr H and Ms V have said, its clear 
there were some details that needed clarifying - in particular, relating to their employment. 
Mr H and Ms V say they werent given a fair opportunity to clarify issues or provide 
necessary supporting evidence  both during the initial application and the appeals process. 
I can see that as part of the standard application process, documentary evidence in relation 
to employment and bank statements were requested and provided. It appears some income 
details had been incorrectly calculated and there was a discrepancy in relation to salary 
payment dates. TSB asked for clarification, accepted Mr H and Ms Vs explanation and 
made the necessary amendments to their records. 
At underwriting stage, the application was declined, partly due to further concerns around 
their employment. Mr H and Ms V say that following this they made several attempts to 
contact TSB to gain a better understanding of the reason for refusal and to provide further 
information that would clarify any uncertainties and support their application. They say 
further appeals went ahead without the opportunity to provide the additional information 
which then led to a further refusal. 
According to the application notes, a conversation took place in March 2019 whereby Mr H 
explained that hed been advised by another party to submit a new application. TSB advised 
Mr H that there was no guarantee the lending decision would be overturned, but additional 
documentary evidence was provided, and the case was reconsidered. Around a month later 
another refusal was returned from the underwriters. 
At this time Mr H and Ms V submitted a subject access request. They say that the results 
showed inaccuracies in the information recorded and an indication that the additional 
information and evidence provided wasnt considered as part of their formal appeal process. 
The reason for the refusal was also presented  leading to concerns about discrimination 
and a decision being made based on factual inaccuracies and unreasonable assumptions.
It is not in dispute that TSB couldve provided a better service during the mortgage 
application. TSB has admitted it got things wrong. But, the main crux of this complaint is the 
refusal of the lending decision and the overall impact the process has had on Mr H and 
Ms Vs investment plans and the inconvenience this has caused them. This is what I must 
consider further. 
It is unclear how many appeals took place, but I can see that at least on one occasion Mr H 
and Ms V were provided with the opportunity to supply some additional information. TSB 
says the additional information provided didnt change the underwriters decision. Mr H and 
Ms V believe the information wasnt duly considered and a tick box exercise took place. 
Mr H and Ms V should have experienced a fair and reasonable application and appeals 
process. This would involve a thorough and careful consideration of all the information and 
evidence provided. The grounds on which this application has been declined suggest its 
less likely this happened. I say this because the underwriters comments suggest the refusal 
was based on assumptions made about Mr H and Ms Vs intentions for the security property. 
There were also some further concerns about their employment circumstances. Mr H and 
Ms V believe the information and evidence provided should have cleared things up, so they 
dont feel it was properly considered.
At this stage I cant say Mr H and Ms V have lost out as a result of TSBs actions. I say this 
because even if all the employment information was considered and further questions were asked to clear up any uncertainties, there is no guarantee the lending would have been 
accepted. Lenders have broad discretion as to who they chose to lend to. They do not have 
to lend in every case, even if the applicants meet affordability criteria and they do not have to 
provide a reason for the refusal. 
However, to put things right, TSB has agreed to allow Mr H and Ms V to reapply for the 
further borrowing. This process needs to take place if Mr H and Ms V want their application 
reconsidered. I dont think any associated fees should be waived. Mr H and Ms V havent 
incurred any costs in relation to fees to date. They can choose a product that suits them, 
either with a fee or not. 
Ive considered the concerns Mr H and Ms V have raised about it being a fair process this 
time. TSB should provide Mr H and Ms V with the opportunity to explain their circumstances 
and all documentary evidence should be carefully considered. The process should be 
transparent, and Mr H and Ms V provided with a copy of their application to check the details 
are correct before submission. TSB is under no obligation to share underwriting notes during 
the application process.
Ive considered all the things Mr H and Ms V have said about how theyve been impacted as 
a result of the declined application. I understand the refusal has impacted Mr H and Ms Vs 
plans, but I cant hold TSB responsible for that, for reasons Ive explained. Mr H and Ms V 
can choose to seek funding from elsewhere, albeit if they switch their existing mortgage to 
another lender, an ERC will apply. Mr H and Ms V have asked, if their application is 
subsequently accepted, the mortgage offer be extended for longer than three months in light 
of the current pandemic situation. This isnt something I can direct TSB to do. They can ask 
this at the time of application. If TSB doesnt agree, Mr H and Ms V can decide the right time 
to submit an application that works for them.
Mr H and Ms V complain that Ms Vs nationality was also noted in the underwriters decision 
and input incorrectly. Ive considered the underwriting notes carefully and it appears TSB 
had some concerns about Mr H and Ms Vs intentions and what this meant for the security 
property. This was more because they had a lodger staying in the security property and 
planned on spending some parts of the year in the property abroad. This raised concerns 
about where Mr H and Ms Vs main residence could end up being in the future. TSB also 
had concerns about their employment situation. These things combined led to overall 
uncertainties about the whole scenario. When Mr H and Ms V received the content of their 
SAR, they saw the notes and thought Ms Vs nationality was the basis of the refusal. I 
appreciate why this caused them a degree of distress. But when considering all the notes in 
context, I dont think this was the reason for the refusal. 
To summarise, I think TSB could have provided a better service for the reasons mentioned 
above. When considering everything and the impact of TSBs failings on Mr H and Ms V, I 
think a compensation award of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Putting things right
I have decided that TSB has been reasonable in its attempt to put things right. I think the 
compensation amount of £300 that it has agreed is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the case. TSB has already paid Mr H and Ms V £100 compensation. It needs to pay them 
a further £200. TSB should also reconsider Mr H and Ms Vs further borrowing application, 
ensuring a fair and reasonable process.My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should:
reconsider Mr H and Ms Vs further borrowing application, ensuring a fair and 
reasonable process; and
pay Mr H and Ms V a further £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman