DRN-3561759
The complaint
Miss T complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) mishandled a claim on
her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Churchill, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Churchill
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
In mid-December 2019, Miss T had her car insured with Churchill. Unfortunately, on 12 
December 2019, Miss Ts car was involved in an accident and Miss T was injured. A car 
following hers hit the rear of her car. Miss Ts car hit the rear of the car she was following. 
There was conflicting evidence about whether it was Miss Ts car or the rear car that made 
the first contact.
Churchill later settled the claim on the basis of a 50/50 split of liability.
Churchill also insured the front car. Miss T complained to Churchill that she wasnt even 
partly at fault because the rear car had shunted her into the front car.
By a final response dated April 2021, Churchill turned down the complaint about split liability.
But it apologised for not discussing this in advance with Miss T and her personal injury
lawyer. It said it was paying Miss T £100.00.
Miss T brought her complaint to us in September 2021.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think
that Churchill had conducted a fair and reasonable investigation. He said that evidence
directly from the witnesses was necessary and should have been fairly straightforward to
keep a record of. He recommended that Churchill should:
1. offer £200.00 to Miss T for distress and inconvenience; and
2. complete a fair and proper investigation addressing the issues outlined above.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss T   
and to Churchill on 30 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
The front and rear drivers each held Miss T responsible. I also kept in mind that 
Churchill took legal advice. So I was minded that Churchill acted fairly and
reasonably in line with the policy.
I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct Churchill to pay Miss T any more 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Miss T or from Churchill, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt intend to direct U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Churchill agreed with the provisional decision.
Miss T disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that: 
Churchill's evidence, that suggests her car hit the car in front prior to the car behind 
colliding with her, is only a note of a conversation. This is not patently not sufficient 
evidence, when a written document was given by the driver of the car in front 
which does not state that two shunts were felt. It also highlights that Churchill did not 
conduct a fair and reasonable investigation and were/are not keeping proper records 
of the incident. 
The time taken for Churchill to respond to correspondence, was far too long.
As a result of this, the witness was not comfortable writing a statement as it had been 
so long since the accident. If Churchill had notified her sooner that there was some 
debate over the fault of the accident, then she would've had a witness statement to 
back up her account.
As the car in front was also insured by Churchill, this means there is even less 
reason why the process took so long. There is no other organisation involved 
between me and the driver in front, so the time taken is not acceptable, neither is the 
lack of sufficient evidence.
Liability was accepted by Churchill on a 50/50 basis without discussing it first with 
either her or her lawyers.
Churchill cannot confirm whether the impact on her car was investigated prior to its 
destruction.
There was poor communication between Churchill and her and her lawyers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurance company may incur an outlay to settle a claim either by a policyholder or aclaim by a third party. Where it has made such an outlay, its common for the insurer to treat
the claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until the insurer recovers its
outlay in full, typically from the insurer of a third party.
It may so happen that the insurer is the insurer of two or more drivers involved in the same
incident. In such a case, we expect the insurer to assign a claims-handler to each party and
for them to deal with each other at arms length as they would deal with a party insured with
another insurer. If one claims-handler recovers his outlay from the other, then I would expect
the insurer to treat that as a recovery of its outlay (notwithstanding that the insurer has made
no recovery overall).
Where two insurers (or two claims-handlers) agree split liability (e.g. 50/50) then each
insurer (or claims-handler) will recover part (e.g. 50%) of its outlay from the other.
Churchills policy terms included the following:
3 Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations
a) You must not admit liability for or negotiate to settle any claim without our written
permission.
b) We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in
your name
 take proceedings in your namefor your, or our own benefit.
c) You must give us any information and help we need.
Such a term is common in motor insurance policies. I consider that the effect of Churchills
term was that  on a question of liability - Churchills view would prevail over Miss Ts. But I
will consider whether Churchill applied that term fairly.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence form each driver to decide the extent to which any of
those drivers is responsible for causing damage or injury.
Ive looked carefully at the accident report form and diagram from the front driver dated
January 2020. She acknowledged that there were three vehicles involved. In answer to a
question about who she held responsible, the front driver said the middle driver had been
driving too close to her. The front drivers statement didnt say that she felt or heard two
shunts. But neither did she say that she held the rear driver responsible.
A letter from the rear cars insurer to Churchill dated early February 2020 said the following:
Your client had already collided with the vehicle in front prior to our insureds
involvement. The insurers of the first vehicle confirm this.
Churchills file for Miss T contains a note dated 30 March 2021 about a conversation dated
20 August 2020 with the front drivers claims handler. The note quotes the front drivers
claims handler as follows:
their vehicle felt 2 shunts and have confirmed that our PH hit them first before the
TP at the back
.
I accept that there were times when Churchill couldve moved more quickly or communicated 
better with Miss T and her lawyers. But cases involving multiple parties can take time to 
resolve. As the front driver was hit from behind, I dont think anyone was suggesting the front driver 
was at fault. Any controversy was between the drivers of the middle car and the rear car.
Churchill took the view that both the front and rear drivers were saying that the middle car
hit the front car before the rear car hit the middle car.
From its file, Im satisfied that Churchill took into account the nature and location of the 
damage to each vehicle. But it took the view that the damage didnt show which impact 
happened first. I dont see how further investigation of the damage to Miss Ts car couldve 
shown whether damage occurred first to its front or its rear.
Churchill noted that there were no video images or statement from an independent witness. 
Whilst Miss T says that there was a witness who wouldve supported her, the witness didnt 
want to give a statement. And I cant say whether this was a result of the passage of time. In 
any event, I cant say that the witness wouldve given a statement that the rear car shunted 
Miss Ts car into the front car.
On balance Im satisfied that Churchill did a reasonable and proportionate investigation.
Churchill took advice from its legal team. Churchill decided that, rather than incur the cost
and risk of court proceedings, it would settle the claim on the basis of a 50/50 split of liability
between Miss T and the rear driver.
I keep in mind that the front and rear drivers each held Miss T responsible. I also keep in
mind that Churchill took legal advice. So Im satisfied that Churchill acted fairly and
reasonably in line with the policy term quoted above.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Churchill to re-open its investigation or to 
change the way it has recorded the claim or to compensate Miss T for the effect the claim 
has had on her insurance premiums.
Churchill has apologised and paid £100.00 for not having a proper discussion with Miss T or
her injury lawyer before the settlement. I dont under-estimate the irritation that Miss T felt
when she found out what had happened. But I consider that this was more short-lived than
the effects of the accident itself. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Churchill to pay
Miss T any more compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman