DRN-2571732
The complaint
Mrs F complains that the car she acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with 247 Money 
Group Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs F entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with 247 Money Group 
for a used car. The car was seven years old and had a mileage of 90,500 and came with a 
one-month warranty.
Mrs F says that she was disappointed when she collected the car to find it hadnt been 
valeted as had been agreed, and that she had to take it back to the dealership for the MOT 
to be carried out. 
The car passed its MOT, but Mrs F says that, around three weeks later, the head lamp bulbs 
started to blow. She contacted the dealership who said that this wasnt something that would 
be covered by the warranty.
In November 2019, Mrs F says she noticed the car had heavy condensation, particularly at 
the rear. She says around two weeks after this she found about six inches of water in the 
cars footwells. Mrs F says this was a concern to her as the electrics for the car are stored 
under the seats. Mrs F says she asked a friend in the motor trade to examine the car who 
advised there was a leak, but they werent able to say where it originated from.
In December 2019, Mrs F complained to 247 Money Group about the quality of the car. It 
says it tried to make contact with Mrs F to discuss the issue but wasnt able to do so. 247 
Money Group sent Mrs F a final response letter closing her complaint due to lack of contact 
from her. 
Mrs F complained to this service as she was unhappy at 247 Money Groups handling of her 
complaint. 247 Money Group offered to have the car independently inspected and this was 
arranged for June 2020.
The independent engineer reported that there was evidence of historic water ingress, 
particularly in the boot. They said that the door seals were all intact and there was no 
evidence of any cracks. The engineer recommend that Mrs F had the off-side front window 
checked as it appeared loose. 
The independent engineer concluded that, on the balance of probabilities, the water ingress 
had not been present or developing at the point of sale. They said the cause was likely to be 
the deterioration of seals, or a blockage of the drain holes. They also noted that this car was 
a convertible type and said that water ingress would not be uncommon on a vehicle of this 
age and type, the vehicle being of convertible roof construction. 
247 Money Group said that, in light of the independent engineers findings, it wouldnt uphold 
Mrs Fs complaint.
Our investigator said that, looking at the evidence, he wasnt able to say the car hadnt been 
of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, as the issues with the car leaking were more likely 
than not due to wear and tear. He said, given the cars age and mileage, issues of wear and 
tear would reasonably be expected. Our investigator said he didnt recommend Mrs Fs 
complaint should be upheld.
Mrs F was unhappy at our investigators view. She said the evidence showed the car had 
been leaking for some time and, when she first purchased it, she hadnt noticed because 
there had been no rain for around three months. Mrs F said that car had required expensive 
work at its service in July 2020, when it had also been MOTd. She provided the invoice for 
this work.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and 
reasonable.
Ive looked at the independent engineers report, the photos and video supplied by 
Mrs F of the water found in and drained from the car, and the repiar invoice from 
July 2020.
Mrs F entered into a hire purchase agreement for the car in April 2019. This is a 
regulated credit agreement and so this service is able to consider complaints 
relating to it. 247 Money Group is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, price 
and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability, all of which can be aspects of the 
quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasnt new, being seven-years old and with a mileage of just over 
90,500.  So, I think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would 
have expected that issues with maintenance and repair would arise over time. In 
particular this is a convertible type vehicle with a fabric roof and I think issues with 
water ingress are more likely over time. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt be 
expectation that the car was fault free.
I dont think its disputed that the car is suffering from water ingress. The issue for me 
to decided is whether this was a fault that was present or developing at the point of 
sale, or a maintenance and repair issue that has arisen over time, due to the age and use of the car. 
Mrs F says she had the car inspected but infortuantely hasnt been able to provide any 
written reports as to any findings. She has provided the work invoice from July 2020. 
However, the independent engineers report, that I have seen, says this wouldnt be an 
uncommon problem for this type of car and that its more likely than not to be a 
maintenance issue arising from wear and tear. They said it wasnt likely to have been 
present at the point of sale.
Mrs F acquired the car in April 2019, and complained about the water ingress to 247 
Money Group in December 2019. I appreciate Mrs F says there wasnt any rain for 
several weeks after she aquired the car but, looking at the email Mrs F sent to 247 
Money Group making her complaint, it appears that water leaking into the car was 
noted in November 2019. I think if water had been ingressing at the point of sale that 
Mrs F would have noticed this prior to making her complaint.
Mrs F says that the bulbs blew around three weeks after acquiring the car and has 
said she thinks that, due to the position of the cars electrics, water was interferring 
with them. However, I dont have any evidence that the car was suffering from 
electrical faults. Bulbs can blow due to age and use, and so are a maintenance issue 
for a car. I think thats probably why the warranty didnt cover the bulbs being replaced.
Looking at the works invoice, dated July 2020, provided by Mrs F Ive seen this 
includes replacing the suspension rear arms and wishbone bushes, plus repairs to the 
cars brakes. Mrs F says, as she has only driven the car 6,000 miles, she wouldnt 
expect a repair bill as expensive as this one was. But the repairs undertaken to the car 
were for serviceable parts which, over time, require maintenance and repair due to 
use. Taking into account the age and mileage of the car I think a reasonable person 
would have expected these types of repairs to be required. So, I dont think this invoice 
is enough for me to say this car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
The invoice also doesnt appear to include any work for water damage to electrics, or 
unexpected rust or corrosion caused by water ingress.
So, on considering the evidence that Ive seen, while I accept the car is suffering from 
water ingress I dont have sufficent evidence to say that this was present or developing 
at the point of sale, or that the car wasnt as durable as would be expected taking into 
account its age and mileage. For these reasons, while I apprecaite this will be of 
disappointment to Mrs F, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman