DRN-3665246
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) incorrectly placed a block on his account.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with BoS, and it was a joint account held with his now             
ex-partner.
In September 2021, Mr M tried to use his debit card, but his transactions were
declined despite him having sufficient funds in his account. So, he visited a branch and was
told to try using CHIP and PIN to resolve the problem. When this didnt work, he visited the
branch again and was told the transactions were declined because a block had been placed
on the account. They said this happened after Mr Ms ex-partner called asking to be
removed from the account. To try and resolve things, branch staff called Mr Ms ex-partner
and it was arranged for forms to be printed and signed so that she could be removed from
the account. Branch staff also told Mr M his account shouldnt have been blocked. Mr M was
unhappy when he was given this information, so he raised a complaint.
BoS looked into Mr Ms concerns and issued their final response. They explained the
account had been correctly blocked following instructions from Mr Ms ex-partner. But they
acknowledged he was incorrectly told to use CHIP and PIN when he first visited a branch, so
they offered him £25 for the inconvenience this caused. Mr M remained unhappy, so he
brought his complaint to our Service.
Our Investigator felt it wasnt appropriate for us to investigate this complaint because it
involved the actions of Mr Ms ex-partner who isnt a party to this complaint. Mr M disagreed,
so it was passed to me for a decision. After an initial review of this case, I felt our Service
could adequately investigate this complaint without the consent of Mr Ms ex-partner. Both
Mr M and BoS accepted my view that we could adequately investigate this complaint. 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 August 2022. In this I explained BoS were entitled to 
block Mr Ms account. However, I considered their branch hadnt given him the level of 
customer service Id expected as theyd provided incorrect information on multiple 
occasions.
Mr M and BoS had until 24 August 2022 to send any further comments and/or evidence 
theyd like me to consider. BoS accepted my provisional decision, but Mr M remained 
unhappy as BoS branch staff have continued to tell him the block was incorrect.
Ive considered this additional information, but my decision remains the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mr Ms complain for the reasons below.
My starting point in this case was to understand the circumstances in which BoS can place a
block on an account. To determine this, I considered whats explained in the terms and
conditions of Mr Ms account. Having reviewed this, Ive seen the terms and conditions say:
15.1 We will make payments, allow withdrawals, give information (including about your
account) or do anything else if we are asked to do so by any one of you, unless regulatory
requirement means we must make enquiries or confirm instructions with the other account
holder. We can also rely on information given by any one of you about the other(s).
Mr M was told his account was blocked following instructions from his ex-partner when she
called BoS. Ive reviewed BoS complaint notes and Im persuaded this is what happened 
and thats why a block was placed on his account. I appreciate Mr M says his ex-partner has
told him she didnt ask for the account to be blocked, However, I cant comment on any
conversations the two of them may have had. But what I can make a finding on is whether
I consider BoS acted reasonably in the circumstances.
Banks are obligated to protect their customers, and that can cause some difficulties on joint
accounts if theres a breakdown in communication/the relationship between account holders.
In this case, Im persuaded BoS were asked to block the account. Because of that, I think it
was reasonable for them to act on those instructions given what the terms and conditions
say BoS will do if they receive instructions from an account holder. Therefore, I cant agree
BoS treated Mr M unfairly by blocking his account.
While I consider the block was fair, I consider Mr M didnt receive the level of service Id
expect from branch staff. Ive seen evidence that demonstrates BoS branch staff dont have
the same authority as their telephone banking advisors when it comes to placing a block on
an account. I believe its most likely that its this difference that has caused the problem here.
It appears the branch staff Mr M has spoken to have been advising him on what theyre
permitted to do. Given theyve repeated this misleading advice on multiple occasions, its not
surprising Mr M is questioning who at BoS is giving him the correct information.
Whats been particularly disappointing is that branch staff have continued to give Mr M this
misleading information  even after BoS has given assurances feedback has been given to
the relevant areas. Id expect BoS branch staff to have a better understanding of their 
policies. And when a complaint has been raised, Id expect them to take extra care to ensure
theyre providing customers with accurate information. As this hasnt happened in this case
(despite BoS assurances that feedback has been given), its only fair Mr M receives an
award that recognises the confusion hes experienced because of BoS mistakes.
Putting things right
BoS previously offered Mr M £25 in recognition of their mistakes. However, I dont consider
this goes far enough. Not only did branch staff incorrectly tell Mr M to use CHIP and PIN
when he first noticed the problem with his account, theyve continued to tell him his account
shouldnt have been blocked  despite that not being the case. In light of this, BoS should 
pay Mr M an additional £50 to recognise the time hes spent trying to understand what 
happened with his account. I consider thats a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr M an additional £50 inrecognition of the inconvenience and confusion caused by branch staff giving him misleading
information on multiple occasions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman