DRN-3027957
The complaint
Mr F and Miss W complain Pinnacle Insurance Plc have avoided their pet insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and unfairly turned down their claim.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Pinnacle are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to it in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. I set out whatd 
happened, and my thoughts on how that needed to be put right.
Mr F and Miss W took out a pet insurance policy with Pinnacle through a price comparison 
site. 
Mr F and Miss W said on 11 May 2020 their dog unfortunately became uncontrollably sick, 
so they took him to the vets. He had to have an emergency operation to correct the issue. A 
few days later he ripped the stitches and had to have another emergency operation. After 
this second operation Mr F and Miss W sent in a claim to Pinnacle. 
But it turned down the claim, saying it didnt cover the breed (which Ill refer to as Breed A) 
of Mr F and Miss Ws dog. Pinnacle also cancelled the policy, refunded all of the premiums, 
and said sorry its unable to offer cover for Mr F and Miss Ws dog. Pinnacle added that Mr F 
and Miss W had declared their dog as a mongrel when taking out the policy.
Unhappy with this, they complained to Pinnacle and said it was in breach of contract and 
were mis-selling its insurance products because they followed the advice when taking out 
the policy. Mr F and Miss W said their dog does look like Breed A, but that cant be 
confirmed without testing. Mr F and Miss W said they understood that, legally, their dog 
would be classed as a mongrel without this testing. Mr F and Miss W said there were three 
options on the price comparison site they took the policy out on which was pedigree, 
crossbreed and mongrel  and they carefully chose the correct option.
Mr F and Miss W added that nothing was shown on Pinnacles site either once they were on 
this, to say it didnt cover Breed A.
Pinnacle said Mr F and Miss W had told it when their dog was bought, he was advertised as 
a Breed A but didnt come with any documentation to confirm his pedigree or background. It 
said based on this it thought Mr F and Miss W would have had a good understanding they 
were purchasing a Breed A  not a mongrel. Pinnacle added when Mr F and Miss W 
registered their dog at the vets, he was registered as a Breed A  and thats the information 
that was put down on the claim form as well. Pinnacle said when it wrote to Mr F and Miss W 
to ask them to confirm what breed their dog was, Miss W told them on the phone he was a 
Breed A.
Pinnacle said the parties to an insurance contract must be honest with each other, and not 
hide any information relevant to the contract from the other party. It said it had no doubts 
when Mr F and Miss W bought their dog they had no doubts it was a Breed A. It said had 
they entered Breed A when buying the policy online it would have told Mr F and Miss W it 
didnt offer cover for this breed. Pinnacle said based on all of the above, it didnt uphold Mr F 
and Miss Ws complaint, and had acted correctly in terminating cover and refunding 
premiums. 
Pinnacle added in a later response that had Mr F and Miss W declared their dog was 
Breed A when completing the information on the price comparison site, their insurance policy 
wouldnt have come up  because they dont cover Breed A. But Pinnacle said Mr F and 
Miss W entered their dog as a mongrel which is why they did get a quote from it. Pinnacle 
said the price comparison site wont tell Mr F and Miss W what dogs it does or doesnt cover, 
as it provides quotes for a number of insurers. Pinnacle said had the policy been taken 
directly, and Mr F and Miss W told it their dog was Breed A, then it would have told them it 
didnt cover their dogs breed. Pinnacle said itd spoken to the vets where Mr F and Miss Ws 
dog was treated and asked what breed their dog was recorded as. Pinnacle said the vets 
told it theyd seen Mr F and Miss Ws dog twice, and each time had recorded him as a 
Breed A. So, based on all of the above it felt itd acted correctly by turning down the claim, 
cancelling the policy and refunding the premiums.
Mr F and Miss W didnt accept this, asking us to look into things. As part of this, we asked 
Pinnacle for its version of events, to allow us to consider everything. In its summary Pinnacle 
said Mr F and Miss W knew their dog was a Breed A  so should have either selected 
Pedigree or Crossbreed of the three options. But, as Mongrel was selected, there was 
nothing to show Pinnacle didnt cover Breed A which is why the policy was accepted.
Our investigator considered everything and said Mr F and Miss W had referred to their dog 
as Breed A in every interaction, so felt they would describe him as a Breed A when asked. 
And, he felt they should have recorded him as a crossbreed  and had they done so, then 
the website where they purchased insurance wouldnt have offered Pinnacle as an insurer.
Mr F and Miss W said they wanted the following points noted:
They read the options carefully and chose the correct one
The wording says if you dont know the breeds then select mongrel
Their dog could be mixed with multiple breeds, which is why they went for mongrel
They also provided a link to information about dogs from an official source which gave more 
information on the definitions of pedigree, crossbreed and mongrel. As Mr F and Miss W 
didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear in this decision Im only considering whether Pinnacle have acted 
fairly in turning down the claim. Im not deciding whether the policy itself was mis-sold or not.
Although it hasnt directly put it in these terms, Pinnacle are saying Mr F and Miss W have 
made a misrepresentation when taking out this policy. The relevant law in this case is The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Here Pinnacle seem to think Mr F and Miss W failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, because in every other contact apart from taking out the policy theyve 
referred to their dog as a Breed A  but have answered mongrel when taking out the policy 
which isnt right.
Mr F and Miss W have been clear and consistent in saying they carefully looked at the 
question they were asked when taking out the policy and answered it accordingly. So, Ive 
looked at the question they were asked and the answer they gave.
The website asked them to choose which type of dog they had, and gave them three 
options:
Pedigree  which requires documentation to prove this (which both parties accept 
couldnt have been a suitable option  so Ive not commented on this further)
Crossbreed  if your dog is a cross between 2 breeds and you know the names of 
the breeds, please select crossbreed. 
Mongrel  if your dog is a cross breed between 2 or more breeds or you do not know 
the breed of your dog, please select mongrel.
To answer the question for crossbreed accurately, you need to know the names of the 
breeds of dog  and asks if the dog is a cross between two breeds. Mr F and Miss W have 
said they couldnt know this, because they didnt know their dogs parents heritage. Because 
of that, theyve said by answering mongrel theyve done so correctly.
Theyve also provided some information from an official source about the definitions of 
crossbreeds and mongrels. For crossbreeds its said theyre a dog with two distinct breed 
pedigree relatives. And it says There are also mongrels where mum and dad have 
uncertain ancestry.
Given the questions they were asked, and the information theyve provided from the official 
source, Mr F and Miss W have answered correctly by choosing mongrel. Theyve said they 
dont know their dogs parents heritage  so that can only have left them with the option of 
mongrel when answering the questions. With that in mind, I think Mr F and Miss W have 
taken reasonable care when answering the question they were asked. As a result of that, no 
misrepresentation has occurred, so I dont think Pinnacle have acted fairly and plan to 
uphold the complaint. So, the actions by Pinnacle are unfair, and not in line with CIDRA.
I do understand Pinnacle will likely have some concerns that in every other contact Mr F and 
Miss W have referred to their dog as a Breed A  but given the questions they were asked 
and the official information Im satisfied its appropriate to uphold their claim. I also note that 
the reason for the claim is due to medical issues, which didnt have any bearing on why 
Pinnacle did or didnt want to provide cover. 
Pinnacle will be required to meet the claim as per the remaining policy terms  which will 
likely include deducting any excess as set out in the policy. Pinnacle can also do a pro-rata calculation for the time on cover Mr F and Miss W had and deduct this amount as I can see it 
refunded all of the premiums when it cancelled the policy. But, as I think they should have 
met this claim, Ill require Pinnacle to add 8% interest to the final figure if Mr F and Miss W 
have already settled the vets bill. If they have, it might be helpful if they could send that to 
us.
I dont require Pinnacle to reinstate the policy, as it never intended to offer cover for a 
Breed A dog. Given whats now known this doesnt seem unreasonable. But perhaps its 
questions should have been clearer at the time the policy was taken out.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F and Miss W said they didnt have anything further to add other than theyre paying 
through a debt collection agency  theyve not actually paid the vets bill in full.
Pinnacle didnt agree with the outcome I reached. Ive summarised its key concerns as 
follows:
Mr F and Miss W told us, and weve agreed, that the dog was advertised and bought 
as a Breed A. That meant Miss W would have known the Mother of her dog was a 
Breed A  so she clearly knew the breed of dog. 
Ive said that selecting Pedigree would have meant documentation was needed to 
prove this, but it couldnt see this on the price comparison site chosen. 
The websites have information to help people choose the type of dog  and it cant see how 
Mr F and Miss W would have thought their dog was a mongrel  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Pinnacles points, but Ill still be upholding this complaint.
I do accept Mr F and Miss W have consistently said in every other contact that their dog was 
a Breed A. Ive acknowledged that in the provisional decision.
But this case turns on the question asked and the official information provided to us by Mr F 
and Miss W. This explains in order for them to say their dog was a pedigree they needed 
documentation to confirm that. Mr F and Miss W have also been clear and consistent in 
saying they dont have this documentation, and dont know the heritage of both parents of 
their dog. Ive noted Pinnacles argument about Mr F and Miss W knowing the Mother  and 
that could be true. But that doesnt persuade me they knew about the other breeds that 
would potentially make up Mr F and Miss Ws dog. With that in mind, Im satisfied theyve 
acted reasonably in selecting mongrel in line with the questions they were asked.
Because of that, Ill still be upholding this complaint. But I need to amend the redress slightly. 
Mr F and Miss W have said theyre paying for the bill through a debt collector as their vets 
wouldnt accept the amount they could pay. 
With that in mind, Pinnacle will need to effectively pay off the debt. Itll also need to 
reimburse Mr F and Miss W for everything theyve paid to the vets or debt collector. This 
should include any charges or interest theyve paid. Once Pinnacle have calculated the 
amount Mr F and Miss W have paid towards this claim theyll need to refund that  plus 8% 
from the date the costs were paid, to the date Pinnacle reimburses these costs. Its up to 
Pinnacle how it chooses to do this  whether it wishes to contact the vets and pay them so they take back the debt, or contacting the debt collector directly. Pinnacle will likely need 
some information from Mr F and Miss W to make these arrangements, so they should co-
operate with any reasonable requests Pinnacle make.
Putting things right
I require Pinnacle to:
Pay out on the claim for the full cost of the vets bill. Some of this will need to repaid 
to Mr F and Miss W  and the remainder will need to be paid directly to the debt 
collection agency. 
Pay back any charges or interest Mr F and Miss W have incurred as a result of the 
debt.
Pay Mr F and Miss W 8% interest on any amounts they have already paid towards 
the vets bill  the 8% would start from the day Mr F and Miss W paid it, until it repays 
this to them.
Pinnacle can deduct the following costs from this figure
Any excess they would be required to pay under the policy
The cost of any premiums it has already refunded to Mr F and Miss W that 
is in excess of the cost for the time they were on cover.
Provide Mr F and Miss W a letter explaining how the final figure paid to them has 
been calculated  and the actions theyve taken in ensuring the debt / vets bill has 
been settled.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Pinnacle to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Pinnacle must give Mr F and Miss W a certificate showing how much tax 
theyve deducted if they ask it for one.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to carry out the actions in the 
putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman