DRN-4367985
The complaint
This complaint is about Miss H and Mr S mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. They 
say Nationwide gave their broker wrong information about their ability to reserve a new rate 
for their current mortgage at the same that that they were applying for a new mortgage to 
fund a house move.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss H and Mr S and Nationwide. 
Im also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of 
which has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss H and Mr S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main 
points, rounding the figures, focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss H and Mr S existing mortgage was on a fixed rate of 1.54%, which was due to expire 
on 31 August 2022.  As is the norm with such deals, an early repayment charge (ERC) 
would be payable if they exited the deal early. In the normal course of events, Nationwides 
rules would have allowed them to reserve a new fixed rate from 1 April 2022 onwards, and 
for that rate to take effect from 1 June 2022, without incurring the ERC. 
However, Miss H and Mr S had already applied to Nationwide for a new, bigger, mortgage to 
move house, and an offer had been issued on 31 March 2022. Under the terms of the new 
offer, they were porting - i.e. transferring - the existing fixed rate to the new mortgage and 
then taking a new fixed rate of 1.84% fixed for three years for the additional borrowing. What 
Nationwide failed to make clear to their broker was that Miss H and Mr S couldnt use the 
normal rules to reserve a successor rate for the existing mortgage at the same time as 
applying for the new mortgage.
Miss H and Mr S had to wait until they had completed the new mortgage on 27 May 2022, 
and as soon as they were eligible, reserve a successor rate for the ported element on which 
the fixed rate was due to expire on 31 August 2022. Rates had gone up in the meantime, 
and they ended up secured a new fixed rate of 2.79% for the carried over borrowing. 
The gist of Miss H and Mr S complaint is that Nationwide didnt provide enough information 
to make an informed choice about the alternative course of action they could have taken. 
Nationwide accepted it didnt give them the right information, and paid £100 to their current 
account by way of an apology.
Miss H and Mr S brought their complaint to us; one of our investigators looked into it, but 
didnt recommend it be upheld. He wasnt persuaded Miss H and Mr S would have acted 
differently if theyd had all the information they should have had. Miss H and Mr S asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
This isnt a complaint where I have to decide fault; Nationwide admits it made mistakes and 
has apologised and offered compensation. All that leaves for me to decide is whether 
Nationwide response provides a fair settlement or not. 
Nationwides mistake was not to explain fully to Miss H and Mr Ss broker that they could not 
reserve a new interest rate deal for their existing mortgage at the same time that they were 
seeking to port the existing rate deal to a new mortgage. Had it done what it should have 
done, Miss H and Mr S would have understood they had three choices; either
wait until the new mortgage had gone through, and risk having to reserve a higher new 
rate for the ported balance (which is what they did);
cancel the new mortgage application, reserve a new rate on the existing mortgage, and 
reapply for the new mortgage running the risk that the new borrowing would be at a 
higher rate; or
fund the house move with a new mortgage from a different lender, redeem the 
Nationwide mortgage (incurring an ERC) and hope that the fixed rate they secured from 
the new lender would insulate them against possible future rate rises and offset the ERC.
Its now a matter of record that interest rates continued to rise during 2022, so much so that 
Miss H and Mr S would have been better off if theyd mortgaged elsewhere and paid the 
ERC to Nationwide. But in deciding this complaint, I cant take account what the parties 
know now. Hindsight cant be a factor is assessing how Miss H and Mr S would have acted if 
theyd received the right information at the outset.
The conversation between Nationwide and Miss H and Mr S broker took place at the 
beginning of April 2022. At that stage, interest rates generally had begun to go up, largely as 
a response to the global financial reverberations that followed the invasion of Ukraine. Ive 
noted what Mr S has said about his occupation and the insight that gives him into how 
financial markets behave. 
However, with the best will in the world, predicting interest rate movements is a very inexact 
science, even for the most experienced professionals. Its one thing to suspect that the 
recent gradual rise in rates would continue; however, its quite another to be so confident 
that rates were going to rise that one would be willing incur a known cost (the ERC) of 
around £2,000 in anticipation of saving the same amount (as a minimum) through securing a 
new rate.As the parties bringing the complaint, it falls on Miss H and Mr S to show, on the balance of 
probabilities, that its more likely than not that theyd have been prepared to pay the ERC in 
the spring of 2022, in the expectation of recouping it through a lower rate. That test, more 
likely than not, is critical here, because equally likely is not enough for me to find in their 
favour. 
Overall, I cant fairly conclude that Miss H and Mr S have passed the more likely than not 
test on this point. From the information theyve provided, Im persuaded they could have 
funded their house move and paid the ERC, but I can only conclude that it is no more than 
equally likely as not that they would have done. For that reason, I dont find that Nationwide 
needs to pay them redress for the financial loss theyre seeking.
Assessing fair compensation for peoples time trouble and upset isnt an exact science 
either; again, it comes down to perception; every situation is different and everything has its 
own context. Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a 
complex transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and inconvenience is 
to be expected. Taking into consideration everything that both parties have said and 
provided, and mindful of our general approach. I consider that the £100 already paid 
represents fair and reasonable compensation for Nationwides admitted shortcomings in this 
case. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Miss H and Mr S. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives 
things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in a house transaction. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman