DRN-3620991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan 
used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which 
trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs S are 
represented by a claims management business, which Ill refer to as L.  
What happened
L has explained that, in August 2008, Mr and Mrs S were offered a cheap holiday in Spain 
by a company, M. As part of the holiday, they had to attend a sales presentation, 
introducing them to the benefits of timeshare resorts. 
As a result of the presentation, Mr and Mrs S entered into a contact with M under which they 
agreed to purchase the right to use, for one week each year, property at a resort in France, 
run by M.  
The contract was financed in part with a loan provided to Mr S by BPF and arranged through 
M. It was to run over 180 months. 
In October 2019 L contacted BPF on behalf of Mr and Mrs S. It said that M had 
misrepresented the terms of the contract and had misled its clients. Specifically, it said they 
had not been told that, if they wanted to use holiday exchange services, they would have to 
pay extra, they had been misled about the possibility of reselling the package they had 
bought and that they had been sold a floating week, which was not legal under Spanish 
law. 
Because the loan had been financed with a loan arranged by M, L said that BPF was equally 
liable with it, and that M had acted as agent for BPF. It said too that, because the contract 
with M was void under Spanish law, the loan itself created an unfair relationship, and all 
payments made under it should be returned, along with the management fees paid to M and 
interest. 
When L referred the matter to this service, our investigator did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. L did not accept the investigators preliminary conclusions and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, only Mr S has a complaint about BPF. Whilst the contract was between M on the 
one hand and Mr and Mrs S on the other, the loan agreement was in Mr Ss sole name, so 
only he has a relationship with BPF. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the contract with M. It appears too that it was 
made under pre-existing arrangements which M had with BPF. It follows that sections 56 
and 75 could therefore apply.    
I must therefore consider the claims against M. Mr S says that M misled him and his wife 
about the contract terms. For example, they were told that they would be able to book 
accommodation outside the resort in France, but were not told about the cost of doing so; 
they were told too that they could easily resell their rights under the contract, but that was 
not in fact true. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs S into the 
contract for the purchase of holiday rights were made on or before 31 August 2008. They did 
not however raise any complaint with BPF until October 2019, some thirteen years later. I 
think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against M was made 
outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
L says that the six year time limit does not apply here, because, under section 14A of the 
Limitation Act, time does not begin to run until the claimant knows they have a cause of 
action. On that point, section 14A applies to claims in negligence and is intended to deal with 
situations where, for example, building work is sub-standard but that does not become 
apparent until some time later. Mr and Mrs Ss claim in this case is not that M was negligent 
but that it misled them; their claim is for misrepresentation. In any event, it seems to me that 
they would have known many years ago if they had been misled. 
Be that as it may, it is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against M is now out 
of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the 
claim under section 56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a 
court would say that claims against M are time-barred, I do not believe that it would be fair to 
hold BPF liable for such claims. 
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, L says that Mr S seeks refunds of sums paid 
under the loan agreement, as well as other fees paid to M. The time limit for bring a claim under section 104A and 104B is six years from the end of the 
relationship between the creditor and debtor. Mr S had not, at the time he made the 
complaint, repaid the loan, so I dont believe time limits are directly relevant to this part of the 
complaint. 
Ls case is that the contract with M is void under Spanish law because, in summary, a 
timeshare contract requires the property to which it relates to be identified. No property was 
specified in this case. 
It seems to me very unlikely that the contract here was subject to Spanish law. It was made 
between consumers resident in England and a company registered in France. The only 
connection with Spain is that the contract was signed there. It referred expressly to certain 
provisions of French law, so I think it likely that a court would decide that the contract was 
subject to French, not Spanish, law. 
Much of the relevant law in this area does, however, derive from European legislation  in 
this case the 1994 European Timeshare Directive. That means that there was a degree of 
conformity in the laws that applied in Spain and France (and the United Kingdom). L says 
that the contract in this case did not comply with the relevant laws giving protection to buyers 
of the rights to use property on a timeshare basis. 
Mr and Mrs S did not however buy rights to use a property on a timeshare basis. That is, 
they did not buy the right to use a particular property on a particular week (or weeks) of a 
year. Rather, they bought the right to use the resort for one week a year and to occupy a 
certain type of property in the resort. What they bought was akin to a holiday club 
membership rather than a timeshare. At the time, holiday club membership was subject to 
fewer consumer protections that timeshare arrangements. 
In the circumstances I am not persuaded that the loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship within the meaning of section 104A of the Consumer Credit Act. I note in 
addition that the credit agreement itself set out clearly the amount of the loan, the interest 
rate, the level of monthly payments and the duration. Of itself, that does not mean that it 
could not lead to an unfair relationship, but I am not persuaded that the other circumstances 
here were such that the relationship between Mr S and BPF was unfair.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman