DRN-2784139
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) rejected claims
on her motor insurance policy following an accident, as she didnt have the right level of
cover.
What happened
In March 2020, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and I have attached a copy 
of it to this final decision. In it, I said why I intended to require Skyfire to reimburse sums 
which Miss B had paid to a third-party and also to settle uninsured losses on a proportionate 
basis, to reimburse loan costs and also to pay Miss B £500 for distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I asked both Skyfire and Miss B if they had any further information that they would like me to 
consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skyfire initially confirmed that it had nothing further to add. It later made a request for an 
extension of time to reply and a short extension was granted, however no further reply has 
since been provided by Skyfire.
Miss B provided evidence and calculations to show that the correct proportion of the claims 
that Skyfire should be responsible for was 70% and not 98%, bearing in mind the higher 
level of premium she thought Skyfire would have charged if it had included cover for 
commuting.
The basis on which this service would normally determine the appropriate percentage would 
be the underwriting and loading information provided by the insurer. This would show the 
cost if commuting had been added to the policy at the relevant time. Unfortunately, Skyfire 
did not provide this information when this was requested by the services investigator. The 
information has not been provided in response to the provisional decision.
Miss Bs open and honest approach is appreciated. The further evidence and calculations 
provided by Miss B are also appreciated. In the circumstances however, they dont provide 
the correct basis for establishing the appropriate proportion. I have therefore accepted Miss 
Bs initial evidence that the original premiums would have cost £10 per month more had 
commuting been added to the original policy. The appropriate proportion was indeed 
calculated on this basis and the provisional decision was also reached on this basis.
Ive concluded that 98% remains the fair and reasonable percentage of the claims for which 
Skyfire should be responsible in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and also in the provisional decision, I uphold Miss Bs 
complaint.
To put things right, I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the following;-
- Reimburse Miss B for repairs to her own vehicle and for the sums paid to the third-party in 
relation to insured costs on a proportionate basis (98%).
- When settling any uninsured losses, to settle these on the same proportionate basis.
- Pay any charges for early termination and interest paid on the loan taken out by Miss
B to settle the third-party claim, on the provision of proof by Miss B.
- Add interest, at the annual rate of 8% simple*, to all amounts already paid by Miss B
on proof of payment, calculated from the date of Miss Bs payment to the date of
settlement.
- Compensate Miss B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*If Skyfire considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Claire Jones
Ombudsman
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I receive by 29 April 2021. Unless the
information changes my mind however, my final decision is likely to be along the following
lines.
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) rejected claims
on her motor insurance policy following an accident, as she didnt have the right level of
cover.
What happened
Miss B took out a comprehensive motor insurance policy with Skyfire through a price
comparison site in January 2019. In selecting her insurance cover, the site had asked; What
do you use your car for? and then provided a list of options of cover from a drop-down box.
Miss B had an accident in November 2019 and informed her insurer. Skyfire initially
arranged for her car to be taken to a garage for repair and provided a courtesy car. Shortly
afterwards, it decided to reject Miss Bs claim, halt repairs and withdraw the courtesy car. It
therefore refused to act, apart from doing what it was required to do by road traffic
legislation. It said that it had adopted Article 75 Insurer status and that it didnt have to
meet the claim. It didnt consider the impact of CIDRA which is explained in the next
section of this decision.
Skyfire said that Miss B had been commuting home from work at the time of her accident
and her policy only covered use of her car for social, domestic and pleasure purposes. Miss
B renewed her cover with Skyfire in January 2020, to include commuting cover on this
occasion.
The rejection of the claim by Skyfire has led to very significant financial sums being paid by
Miss B to repair her own car. Miss B has also been pursued by the other drivers insurer for
its costs and shes settled the amount to avoid a county court judgment. Skyfire is also
seeking to recover uninsured costs from Miss B.
Having considered the evidence, our Investigator felt that this complaint should be upheld. In
summary, he looked at the following factors;
He accepted that Miss B believed that she was covered as she had a fully 
comprehensive policy.
He agreed that the journey in question was a commute.
Following rejection of the claim, commuting was added to the policy. The Investigator 
said this showed Skyfire would have provided cover in January 2019 had it been 
applied for, but at an increased premium.
He was satisfied that Miss B should have chosen a different level of cover but that 
she had made a careless but honest mistake and had not been deliberate or reckless 
in her actions.
Miss B was honest about the nature of the commute journey during the claims 
process.
Skyfire said they e-mailed Miss B in October 2019 asking if she would like to add 
commuting to the level of cover. The Investigator noted that Miss Bs representative said this e-mail wasnt received.
Considering the premium difference of less than £10 to cover Miss B for commuting, 
the Investigator felt it was unfair to reject the claim.
He considered that Skyfire should settle both Miss Bs and the third-party claims on a 
proportionate basis.
 He was also of the view that Skyfire should reimburse interest and any charges on 
early repayment of a loan which Miss B had to take out to pay the third-party costs.
Miss B was unaware of the third-party proceedings until September 2020 when the 
third partys representatives contacted her directly regarding cost recovery, as Skyfire 
had not answered letters. This caused shock and distress.
In conclusion, our Investigator recommended that Skyfire settle Miss Bs claim and the third-
party claim, pay any charges and interest paid on the loan and compensate Miss B £150 for
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Skyfire doesnt agree and the matter has therefore been referred to me to make a final
decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is found in The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of the consumer to take
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer. If a misrepresentation is
deliberate or reckless, an insurer may avoid the insurance contract and refuse all claims.
If a consumer fails to take care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms, or not have offered it at all if the consumer hadnt made the
misrepresentation.
If the insurer would still have provided the insurance but charged a higher premium to do so,
it may reduce the amount to be paid on a proportionate basis. It cannot entirely reject the
claim however.
Its clear then that Miss Bs policy didnt cover commuting and she didnt have adequate
cover in place. Nevertheless, I dont think that its fair and reasonable for Skyfire to have
refused to have dealt with the insurance claims at all and Ill explain why.
Section 6 of the certificate of insurance states:
6. Limitations as to use: Use for Social, domestic and pleasure purposes only
The policy terms and conditions state:
Section 9.2  General conditions. We will provide cover if a) you have met all the terms andconditions within this insurance b) The information provided to us, as far as you are aware, is
correct.
Section 10  General exceptions 10.1 Who uses your car:
The insurer will not cover any injury, loss or damage caused while your car is:
being used for a purpose not allowed by the Certificate of Motor Insurance;
Skyfires position is that Miss B was provided with appropriate and clear information when
she bought the policy and that it had acted within the policy terms. It said that Miss B had
been asked clearly what she used the car for. Miss B had been provided with options and a
clear definition of each option, so she had the relevant information to select the correct level
of cover before buying the cover.
In relation to CIDRA, Skyfire didnt comment as to whether Miss Bs representation was
reckless or deliberate on the one hand, or careless on the other, and didnt appear to have
addressed the claim in this way. It considered that it was entitled to avoid the policy and rely
on their rights as Article 75 insurers.
The Financial Ombudsman Services approach is that Article 75 of the Motor Insurance
Bureau Articles of Association can apply automatically if the use of the vehicle is other than
that permitted under the policy, as in this case. Article 75 has to be interpreted in accordance
with the CIDRA provisions however and the Act therefore trumps Article 75 in these
circumstances.
Skyfire also considered that their e-mail of October 2019, offering the opportunity to upgrade
the policy to include commuting, was significant. It was sent to the correct email
address and didnt bounce back. They said that in previous cases, this evidence has been
sufficient to show they had provided the information, irrespective of whether the customer
had opened or read what they had sent.
Turning to Miss Bs position, when she originally purchased her policy through a price
comparison company, she had completed their standard form. This asked; What do you use
your car for? and then provided a list of options of cover from a drop-down box; firstly,
social, domestic and pleasure, secondly with the additional inclusion of commuting and
thirdly with the additional inclusion of business. Miss B ticked the first box.
Miss B said that she thought she was covered for commuting for the whole time she had her
policy as the insurance was comprehensive and that it wasnt clear on her insurance
certificate that commuting wasnt covered. She felt that she had been treated unfairly and
taken advantage of because of her lack of insurance and legal knowledge. She said that
whilst applying for her insurance, shed stated that she had a full-time job and would be
using the work car park to store her car during the day.
Its my view that the question Miss B was asked on the comparison site was covered by
CIDRA.
In the circumstances, I must firstly consider the clarity of the question Miss B was asked.
Here, Miss B was asked what she used her car for. I think that the question was clear. Miss
B chose to take social, domestic and pleasure use cover. I think the definition given on the
form for commuting is less clear if a person has more than one job, as it refers to
commuting to and from your single permanent place of work. Nevertheless, Miss B could
have checked the position with her insurer, and I consider that her answer was a
misrepresentation as she was clearly using her car to go to and from work.
What I must secondly consider is whether this act was deliberate, reckless or careless.CIDRA says its deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew her answer was untrue or
misleading or didnt care if it was untrue or misleading. A misrepresentation is careless if it
isnt deliberate or reckless.
Miss B didnt hide the fact she was driving home from work at the time of the accident and
when applying for her insurance, she said that she had a full-time job and would be using
her work car park to store her car. The statement of fact held by Skyfire in relation to the
policy it issued in January 2019 also clearly recorded Miss Bs employed status. In the
circumstances, Im satisfied that Miss Bs response to the question; what do you use your
car for? was careless, but not deliberate or reckless. Im satisfied therefore that Miss Bs
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
With regard to Skyfires email of October 2019, if it had been received by Miss B, it again
appears that Miss B had not taken proper notice of or appreciated the significance of her
failure to insure her car for commuting purposes. This would have been a careless rather
than a deliberate or reckless act however, bearing in mind all the surrounding
circumstances.
Skyfire have not provided their underwriting criteria requested by our Investigator, however
Ive considered the available evidence in relation to the difference in price for the levels of
cover at the relevant time. I accept the evidence provided by Miss Bs representative that if
Miss B had included commuting in the level of cover chosen, this would have cost less than
£10 extra for the years cover.
The very small increase in premium, to include commuting cover would also suggest there
was no meaningful incentive for Miss B to exclude commuting cover. If shed known she
wouldnt be covered for journeys to and from work, Im convinced that she would have paid
the extra amount.
In cases like this, CIDRA says that if the insurer would still have sold the policy but would
have charged a higher premium, it may reduce proportionately the amount paid on a claim.
Skyfire would still have sold Miss B the policy but charged a very slightly higher premium if it
had covered Miss B for commuting. It did so later, after Miss B added commuting to her
policy. In the circumstances, I consider that Miss B should have been covered for the
appropriate proportion of the claim (which would be approximately 98% of the claim).
I would finally add that even if this hadnt been a case of misrepresentation, this Service will
decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont think it would have
produced a fair and reasonable result in any event, if Id allowed Skyfire to turn down Miss
Bs claim, given that shed paid 98% of the premium she should have paid to ensure full
commuting cover.
In conclusion, Ive applied CIDRA to this case, however my role is to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the individual circumstances. I consider that it wasnt fair or reasonable for
Skyfire to have rejected Miss Bs claim and that of the third party. Skyfire should pay 98% of
the claim costs, given the relatively minor difference in premium that would have been
payable had the correct information been provided at the start.
As Miss B has had to fund her repairs as well as third-party costs and has had to take out a
loan to fund this, I consider that Skyfire should refund these third-party costs and also pay an
appropriate proportion of the costs of the loan. Skyfire should also pay Miss B 8% simple
interest on the amounts it pays to her from the date of the accident to the date it makes
payment.
Skyfire has referred to previous cases of this Service. Whatever they might or might nothave said, previous views or decisions dont set a precedent, as our Service considers the
individual circumstances and merits of each complaint. The requirement to settle claims on a
proportionate basis in CIDRA matters where it would have offered cover for a marginally
different price, is well established however and will not come as a surprise to Skyfire.
If Skyfire had correctly dealt with Miss Bs claim in line with CIDRA, then she would not have
been put into a position that caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Indeed, its
clear that Miss B has experienced very considerable distress and worry, both at the time
Skyfire wrongly repudiated the claim and then when Miss B belatedly became aware of third-
party
litigation against her. I also consider that Skyfire had acted unreasonably in not kept
Miss B properly informed, despite her having renewed her insurance with Skyfire in January
2020.
Overall, I think the investigators proposed resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable
and is an outcome we would have reached even without the application of CIDRA. I consider
that the compensation for distress and inconvenience should be increased to £500, as the
stress caused to Miss B has been prolonged and communications from Skyfire were poor.
Skyfire should now properly deal with the claims on Miss Bs policy and reimburse her
accordingly.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
To put things right, I intend to require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the 
following;-
- Reimburse Miss B for repairs to her own vehicle and for the sums paid to the third-party
in relation to insured costs on a proportionate basis (98%).
- When settling any uninsured losses, to settle these on the same proportionate basis.
- Pay any charges for early termination and interest paid on the loan taken out by Miss
B to settle the third-party claim, on the provision of proof by Miss B.
- Add interest, at the annual rate of 8% simple*, to all amounts already paid by Miss B
on proof of payment, calculated from the date of Miss Bs payment to the date of
settlement.
- Compensate Miss B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*If Skyfire considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman