DRN-3452348
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited made errors when it gave 
mortgage advice and applied for a mortgage on their behalf. They say it applied for the 
wrong loan amount, meaning theyre unable to repay other debt. They ask that MAB refunds 
its fees and pays compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs product was due to expire and they took mortgage advice from MAB. It 
recommended they re-mortgage with a different lender. Mr and Mrs B say the whole point of 
re-mortgaging was to take out additional borrowing to repay an unsecured loan. 
Mr and Mrs B say that just before completion they found out the application and mortgage 
offer were based on approximate figures. There wasnt enough additional borrowing to repay 
the unsecured loan in full. They say they have financial loss as they have to make monthly 
loan repayments as well as mortgage payments. 
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs B were aware of the amount needed to repay the 
unsecured loan and the amount of the additional borrowing. Notes of the fact find carried out 
by MAB say they intended to pay the balance of the unsecured loan from savings. Our 
investigator said Mr and Mrs B hadnt suffered any financial loss. They would have had to 
repay the additional borrowing over the mortgage term. And theyd have paid interest at a 
higher rate on the mortgage loan due to the increase in the loan to value.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said they didnt agree to the amount of the additional 
borrowing and this has caused them months of stress. They said their loss was having to 
pay the unsecured loan and the mortgage each month. Mr and Mrs B said it was their choice 
whether to repay the borrowing over the term of the mortgage. They also said the fact find 
(which they hadnt seen before) was littered with errors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B told MAB at the outset that they wanted to repay an unsecured loan by taking 
out additional borrowing. They say MAB made an error, or used approximate figures, in the 
mortgage application. As a result, the loan amount wasnt enough to repay the unsecured 
loan. There was a shortfall of about £2,000.
Mr and Mrs B say MABs fact find notes are riddled with errors that they werent aware of 
until recently. They say they didnt have savings and wouldnt have suggested they could 
use savings to repay the balance of the loan. While MAB says Mr and Mrs B didnt want the 
additional borrowing to take them into a higher LTV, Mr and Mrs B also dispute this. I 
appreciate their frustration about this, and why they say this makes the notes unreliable 
evidence. However, there are other documents that were shared with Mr and Mrs B during 
the mortgage application process. Im satisfied I can reach a fair decision based on the 
available evidence. 
I should explain here, that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
My role here is to decide if MAB made an error with Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application. In 
doing so, Ive taken the following into account.
A fact find was carried out in July 2021. MAB issued a suitability letter (headed your 
mortgage requirements) in June 2021. This recommended a loan of about £168,000. It 
said £16,000 would be used to repay existing debt to reduce the monthly payments. 
MAB provided two mortgage illustrations to Mr and Mrs B, one with and one without the 
additional borrowing of £16,000. 
Mr and Mrs B knew it would cost about £18,000 to repay the unsecured loan, and so 
additional borrowing of £16,000 wouldnt be enough. They could have questioned this at 
the time if this wasnt what they wanted.
MAB provided evidence that increasing the loan by enough to repay the unsecured loan 
would have taken Mr and Mrs B into a higher loan to value (LTV) category for their 
mortgage. The interest rate offered by the lender would have been 2.19% rather than 
1.45%.
The lender issued a mortgage offer in July 2021 for a loan of £168,000. Mr and Mrs Bs 
previous mortgage balance was about £152,000. This left about £16,000 to repay the 
unsecured loan. 
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs B expected the loan amount to be enough to repay the unsecured 
loan in full and were disappointed this wasnt the case. But I dont think this was due to an 
error by MAB.
I dont think MAB entered incorrect amounts in the application or used approximate amounts 
in error. I think it applied for additional borrowing of £16,000 because this was as much as 
Mr and Mrs B could borrow and obtain an interest rate product in the 65% LTV range. And it 
reasonably thought this was what Mr and Mrs B had agreed. 
It was clear in the documents shared with Mr and Mrs B (the suitability letter, mortgage 
illustrations and mortgage offer) that MAB had applied for additional borrowing of £16,000. 
This was about £2,300 less than the amount needed to repay the loan in June 2021. I 
appreciate that payments made after June 2021 would reduce the balance, and the exact 
redemption amount wouldnt be known until nearer to completion, which was scheduled for 
early October 2021. But Mr and Mrs B made monthly payments of about £270. Given the 
outstanding balance and the monthly payments, I dont think MAB could reasonably have 
known that Mr and Mrs B expected the balance to have reduced enough for them to repay 
the loan from the £16,000 additional borrowing. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that MAB told Mr and Mrs B the additional borrowing 
would be enough to repay their mortgage and unsecured loan in full. In fact (and I know Mr 
and Mrs M dispute this) the available evidence suggests that MAB thought theyd clear the 
balance from savings. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B have said about the fact find being incorrect, and that 
theyd have preferred to consolidate the loan into the mortgage. I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs B would have preferred that the debt was repaid. But consolidating debts into a 
mortgage can be expensive: the debt is repaid over a longer period meaning more interest is 
applied. And increasing the borrowing here by £2,000 would have meant a higher interest 
rate being applied to Mr and Mrs Bs whole mortgage loan. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for MAB to recommend that Mr and Mrs B 
only borrow an additional £16,000  and it explained to them why it did this. While Mr and 
Mrs B say this isnt what they wanted I havent seen evidence that they told MAB this in time 
for it to make a different application, for a larger loan and a different interest rate product. 
Overall, I dont think MAB made an error or treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman