DRN-3409521
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Graduate Additions account and a fee-paying Tech Pack, which were sold to her in 
September 2006 and January 2017 respectively.
Ms M says that the Pack was added to her account without her consent and says that the 
insurance provided by the Pack was a lot more expensive than what she could get 
elsewhere.
What happened
One of our ombudsmen has already issued a decision to explain that our service is unable to 
consider Ms Ms complaint about the sale of the Graduate Additions account.
One of our adjudicators then assessed the complaint about the Tech Pack, and he didnt 
think that Barclays had acted unfairly or unreasonably by adding the Pack to Ms Ms 
account.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might help to explain that when the Tech Pack was added to Ms Ms account, this 
happened as part of a wider account migration. Barclays has explained that it had decided to 
withdraw the fee-paying Graduate Additions packaged account from its range of accounts. 
But to ensure that account holders were able to continue to receive similar insurance cover, 
it arranged for all Graduate Additions accounts to be migrated over to having a fee-free 
account, but with a fee-paying Tech Pack added. This is something that Barclays was 
entitled to do, as changing the products that it wishes to provide customers is a reasonable 
exercise of its own commercial judgement. 
However, in making such changes to Ms Ms account, Barclays was required to give Ms M 
reasonable notice of the changes that were due to take place. And it was also required to 
clearly set out what options were available to affected accountholders too. This was to 
ensure that Ms M had a reasonable amount of time in which to fully understand what 
changes were taking place on her account and to decide whether she wanted to continue 
with the Pack or not.
In this case, Barclays has provided a copy of the letters that it sent to Ms M. The first letter 
dated 21 October 2016 explained that Ms Ms Graduate Additions account was being 
removed and that her account was changing to a fee-free Barclays current account, and that 
a Tech Pack would be automatically added to the account, costing £9.50 a month. The letter 
explained other changes, for example it explained that Ms M would continue to be provided 
with mobile phone insurance (as she did with her existing account) but that shed also get 
gadget insurance too. The letter also highlighted that the breakdown cover provided by the 
existing Graduate Additions account would not be included with the new Pack. 
Finally, the letter explained that Ms M had four options. Firstly if she was happy with the 
changes, she didnt have to do anything. If Ms M didnt want the Tech Pack added, it 
explained how she could contact Barclays to opt out of it being added to her account. It also 
explained what Ms M could do if she wanted a different type of Pack on her account instead 
and also that she could close her account if she was not happy with any of the changes 
taking place.
Barclays then sent another letter to Ms M on 20 January 2017 to confirm that her account 
had changed and that the Tech Pack had been added. It also reminded Ms M that Packs are 
optional and can be removed at any time.
Based on the two letters that Barclays had sent to Ms M, I think that Barclays had given Ms 
M reasonable notice of the changes that were being made to her account. I also think that 
the changes that were being made, as well as the options that were available to Ms M  
which included opting out of having the Pack  were made clear too. As such, based on 
what I have seen, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
added the Tech Pack to Ms Ms account.
I note that Ms M has complained about the cost of the Pack increasing. But Barclays has 
provided copies of letters it sent to Ms M on 13 November 2017, 16 May 2019 and 10 
February 2021 which explained that the monthly fee for the Pack would be increasing and 
explained when the increases will come into effect. Once again, these letters explained that 
if Ms M was unhappy with the changes, she could remove the Tech Pack from her account. 
So again, I think Barclays took reasonable steps to inform Ms M of these price increases and 
the options available to her. 
Ms M has said that the opt out process that Barclays employed was unreasonable. But as 
this change to the account was not a sale of a new account, but rather a bulk transfer from 
one type of account to another, that included similar features (provided via a bolt-on Pack) 
for a similar price, I dont think that Barclays decision to employ an opt out basis for this 
change was unreasonable. 
Finally, Ms M says that she did enquire about cancelling the insurance on her account but 
was discouraged from doing so  although I cant see that she mentioned this when she 
originally complained to Barclays. Nevertheless, apart from Ms Ms testimony, there is no 
evidence that this conversation took place, and if it did, what exactly was said. So based on 
the evidence that is available, Im not able to say that its likely that Barclays did mislead Ms 
M into keeping the Tech Pack on her account unnecessarily.
As such, based on what I have seen, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it added the Tech Pack to Ms Ms account. I therefore dont think it 
would be appropriate to require Barclays to refund Ms Ms Tech Pack fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 Thomas White
Ombudsman