DRN-4387799
The complaint
Ms W is complaining that she wasnt aware her credit card account with TSB Bank plc (TSB) 
remained open following her report of fraudulent transactions.
What happened
In May 2020 Ms W called TSB to report fraudulent transactions on her credit card account.
TSB arranged for the card to be blocked and for the fraudulent transactions to be refunded.
Ms W didnt receive a replacement card from TSB. She said she assumed the account had
been closed. But around November 2022 she realised the account was still open. She called
TSB to ask for a replacement card, but she was told that due to inactivity TSB were unable
to issue a replacement.
Ms W complained to TSB. TSB closed Ms Ws account and sent her their final response
letter. Ms W then referred her complaint to our service. She said, in summary:
She assumed the credit card account had been closed when she didnt receive a 
replacement card;
The account should have been closed, or a new card should have been issued at the
time;
She has concerns about the security of her account, as she wasnt aware it was still 
open; and
Shes concerned her credit rating may have been affected by the account still being 
open.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. He didnt think TSB had given Ms W
incorrect information about her account being closed.
Ms W didnt agree, so her complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 29 September 2023. This is what I said then.
There are only limited notes about the phone conversation that took place when Ms W
reported the fraud, and no recording of the call is available. I asked Ms W for some
information about what was said in the call; specifically, whether she asked for the account
to be closed.
Ms W replied with some notes she found, which she says she made around the time of the
call - which say the card was immediately blocked and the account closed. She says these
notes show the account would be closed at the time. And when she realised the account
was still open, she assumed shed mis-remembered what had happened at the time of the
call.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Ms W has a clear recollection of whether she asked for the
account to be closed during the call when she reported the fraudulent transactions. Shes
said that she assumed the account had been closed - rather than that she specifically asked
for the account to be closed or that TSB told her it was going to be closed. And while the
notes shes found do support her position that she thought the account would be closed, I
dont think this is enough for me to conclude that TSB told her the account would be closed
during the call  especially in the absence of any other testimony about the conversation that
took place then. Taking everything into account, I dont think TSB gave Ms W incorrect
information about the account being closed.
Its not TSBs process to automatically close accounts after a report of fraud, and Ms Ws
own account of the conversation doesnt specifically say that she asked for the account to be
closed or that TSB told her it would be. So, I dont think TSB have done anything wrong by
not closing Ms Ws account in May 2020.
Having asked TSB about their usual process in these circumstances, I think its possible
something did go wrong here with the replacement card. I say this because TSB has
explained that their usual process when a fraud is reported is for a replacement card to be
issued. They cant explain why this didnt happen here, and there are no notes from the time
to explain why a replacement card wasnt sent out.
So, I think its possible TSB made an error by not issuing a replacement card at that time 
which if sent out may have prompted Ms W to check whether the account had actually been
closed. However, I do also think that if Ms W had concerns about the security of the account
at the time, she would have double checked that it had been closed rather than assume it
had been.
Ms W says she doesnt think TSB should have allowed her account to remain open and
unused as it posed a security risk. I can understand why shed be concerned about her
account being open and inactive. But I think its really for a business to decide if or when
they take steps to close credit card accounts that arent being used regularly.
In any case, I can see there were no further fraudulent transactions during the period the
account was open but inactive, and theres no other indication that the security of the
account was compromised during this time. And Ive not seen anything from Ms W to show
her credit rating has been affected by the account remaining open with a nil balance. So
even if I had concluded TSB should have closed her account sooner, I dont think theres
been any impact on Ms W as a result of the account remaining open, that would warrant
compensation.
Ms Ws also mentioned TSBs fraud protection policy  the particular part shes referred to is
set out on their website, in the section How we protect you.
It says the following:
If you dont log into your Internet Banking for more than 12 months, well disable the
account.
As a result, Ms W thinks her credit card account should have been closed due to the lack of
activity between 2020 and 2022. But I think the policy shes quoted here relates specifically
to accounts set up to access TSBs internet banking service. So, it doesnt apply to her credit
card account.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W. But I dont think TSB have treated her unfairly here. So 
subject to any responses to my provisional decision - Im not going to ask them to do
anything else.TSB replied to my provisional decision to say they had nothing to add.
Ms W replied with a number of points. Ive summarised these below.
During the call in May 2020 the card was blocked, the account was closed and the 
charges refunded. This wasnt an assumption  it was noted on the arrears letter at the 
time and is a clear reference;
She received a statement in July 2020 showing the refund of the fraudulent transactions 
but didnt receive any further statements which reinforced the idea the account was 
closed; 
When she contacted TSB in November 2022 they couldnt offer an explanation for why 
she hadnt been sent a replacement card or why the account hadnt been closed;
Its frustrating that TSB wouldnt then issue a replacement card given the error was on 
their part;
Its problematic that TSB couldnt find a recording of the call from May 2020;
The onus should not be on Ms W, as a customer, to ensure a bank follows its own 
process and procedures;
Its fortunate no further fraudulent activity occurred;
The fraud policy shes highlighted also applies to credit cards and debit cards; and
TSB failed to protect her account and shes provided dates and documents to show they 
didnt follow due process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
In her response to my provisional decision Ms W said that there was no assumption the 
account had been closed. But when she brought the complaint to us, she said that TSB had 
failed to address her assumption that no new card meant the account had been closed. And 
in her call with TSB raising the complaint she said she thought the account had been closed 
because she didnt receive a new card. I still think its more likely than not that Ms W 
assumed the account would be closed, rather than TSB told her it would be. 
As Ms W says, she did receive a statement in July 2020 which showed the transactions had 
been refunded. This statement didnt give any indication that the account had been closed, 
and also showed there was still an active credit limit on the account. TSB didnt continue to 
send monthly statements as the account had a zero balance, which is in line with their 
general credit card conditions. However, they did send Ms W an annual statement in 
October 2020 which also showed how much was available to spend on her credit card. I 
dont think TSB have made an error by not continuing to send monthly statements - and I think the statements they did send after the call of May 2020 showed that Ms Ws account 
remained open, rather than the opposite.
Ive not found that TSB didnt follow their processes and procedures in not closing Ms Ws 
account after she reported the fraud and her card was cancelled. Ive explained in my 
provisional decision that its not TSBs policy to automatically close a credit card account 
after a frauds been reported. And Ive also explained that its for a business to decide when 
and if they close a credit card account thats not being used in these circumstances. TSB 
have confirmed that they dont have a separate policy for closing inactive credit card 
accounts as its a decision they make on a case-by-case basis. So, I dont agree with Ms W 
that TSB havent followed their own procedures here.
Ms Ws said that the How we protect you policy shes referred to applies to credit and debit 
card accounts. And it does in the sense that its a general policy which explains the 
measures TSB takes to protect their customers personal details. But the section about 
disabling an account after 12 months, which is the basis for Ms Ws assertion that her credit 
card account should have been closed after 12 months of inactivity, doesnt apply to credit 
card accounts.
This section called Use it or Lose it says:
If you dont log into your Internet Banking for more than 12 months, well disable the
account.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, this refers to internet banking accounts  so, 
accounts set up by a customer so they can use the internet banking service. I think its clear 
in the clause itself that this is what it relates to.
It's certainly unfortunate that TSB cant supply the call of May 2020. Its for businesses to 
decide how long they retain recordings of calls for, in conjunction with the regulations around 
this. But as the call took place over two years before Ms W brought her complaint, I dont 
think its unreasonable that TSB arent now able to supply a copy of the recording.
I do appreciate that Ms W thought the account was closed and I understand how not 
receiving a replacement card would have reinforced her belief that it was. But I dont think 
this was due to TSB giving her incorrect information about it being closed. In any event, Ive 
already explained that from what Ive seen I dont think shes been negatively impacted by 
the account remaining open - because there was no further fraudulent activity on the 
account. And as it seems she intended to close the account in May 2020 rather than 
continue to use it, I dont think TSB not issuing a replacement card in November 2022 has 
caused her inconvenience through not being able to use the account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W. But Im not going to ask TSB to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman