DRN-3687099
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) did not fairly compensate him 
after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card in 2003. 
Bank of Scotland plc is the business with overall responsibility for the complaint. However, 
the PPI was sold to Mr D whilst it was trading as Halifax. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
mainly to Halifax throughout this decision. 
I know Mr D has other complaints with this service about Halifax and the insurer. To be 
clear, my decision is only about whether Mr D was fairly compensated in respect of the mis-
sale complaint. I understand the other matters are being looked at separately. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr D in September 2003 alongside a credit card. That means that Mr D 
would have been charged a PPI premium for every month that he used his account. The 
premium would have been calculated using a percentage of his outstanding balance. 
In May 2005, Mr D says he tried to make a claim on the PPI policy, and the claim was
refused. The PPI policy was then cancelled. It appears Mr D may have complained to the 
insurer about the PPI policy in 2005. Mr D says Halifax initially agreed to refund his 
premiums. However, on 15 June 2005, the insurer wrote to Mr D to say that his premiums 
would not be refunded as he was eligible for the policy.
The credit card was charged off in 2006 with an outstanding balance of approximately
£7,986.22. I understand the account was later sold to a third party. The account was
archived on Halifaxs system in or around 2014, showing an outstanding balance of
£7,976.22.
In 2019, Mr D complained to Halifax about the sale of PPI. Halifax then agreed the cover had
been mis-sold and it agreed to pay Mr D £1,443.22 to compensate him for that mis-sale.
This included £863.25 for compensatory 8% interest. Halifax paid the compensation into Mr
Ds account. However, Mr D did not accept this offer. He appears to have asked Halifax to
withdraw this sum from his account. In a letter to Mr D dated 17 June 2020, Halifax said it
had complied with that request.
Mr D then complained to this service. He said that Halifax destroyed the financial 
arrangements he had made in respect of a business project. He said it had also destroyed 
his personal finances and arrangements with other creditors. Mr D told us Halifax loaded his 
account with charges and interest, which exacerbated his difficulties. He did not think 
Halifaxs offer to refund his premiums, along with interest, was sufficient compensation for 
the difficulties he had experienced.
Mr D told us that by mis-selling PPI, he believed Halifax caused him to lose £295,797 in 
earnings, and £34,759.90 from his pension pot. Mr D said by virtue of the mis-sold PPI 
policy, he incurred £1,736 in overdraft charges. Mr D thought Halifax should reimburse these 
charges, along with 8% interest. He did not agree with the way Halifax had calculated 8% 
simple interest in respect of the PPI premiums and he provided his own calculation.
Mr D also told us that Halifax forced him into homelessness and devastated his career and
relationship with family and friends.
Our adjudicator looked at all the issues raised by Mr D. She set up two further complaints for 
him: one about the insurer and the losses he says were caused when his claim was refused; 
and another about Halifaxs administration from 2005. Accordingly, our adjudicator limited 
her consideration of this complaint to whether Mr D had been fairly compensated for the mis-
sale of PPI.
Overall, our adjudicator thought the offer Halifax made to compensate Mr D for mis-selling
PPI was fair. She didnt think the losses Mr D told us about could be attributed to the mis-
sale of PPI. Mr D disagreed with that view. He said the sale of PPI was directly linked to the
ensuing difficulties he experienced. He disagreed that Halifax did not charge interest beyond
April 2005, and that there were only fees of £100. He sent evidence he said showed Halifax
charged him interest until February 2006.
My provisional decision dated 1 July 2022
I issued a provisional decision in this matter because although my overall conclusion was the 
same as that of our adjudicator, I thought it would fair to give additional reasons. I decided it 
was also fair for me to give the parties an opportunity to comment on that reasoning before I 
issued a final decision. In my provisional decision, I said: 
There is a considerable amount of documentation relating to this case. Whilst I have 
not referred to every document in this decision, I want to assure the parties that I 
have considered all of the available information and evidence at some length.
As I said above, Im just looking at whether Mr D has been fairly compensated for 
the PPI mis-sale. In this decision, I am not considering Mr Ds alleged losses 
arising from a refused claim. It is also beyond the scope of this complaint for me to 
comment upon the actions of Halifax in the years thereafter. As I said, I understand 
both of those matters are subject to separate complaints set up by our adjudicator.
Was Halifaxs calculation fair?
The first thing I have considered is whether the calculation Halifax undertook to 
compensate Mr D was fair.
Where PPI has been mis-sold, I would expect Halifax to return Mr D to the position 
he would be in if PPI had never been sold in the first place. With PPI sold alongside 
a credit card, that would usually mean Halifax refunding all of the PPI premiums, 
along with any interest, fees and charges that were caused by the PPI. Id usually 
expect Halifax to pay 8% simple interest to compensate Mr D for any period he had 
been out of pocket because of the PPI.
Looking at the information Halifax provided, I can see the account appears to have 
been opened in or around September 2003. Mr D did not use the account until 
January 2004 and so PPI was not charged to the account until then. I can see the 
final premium was billed to the account in April 2005, which fits with what Mr D told 
us about the policy being cancelled in May 2005.
In calculating Mr Ds PPI compensation, Halifax reconstructed Mr Ds account to 
show us what the balance would have been if the PPI had not been added. 
Altogether Halifax calculated that Mr D was charged an extra £751.13 because of the 
PPI, which includes the premiums that were charged and any associated interest. 
Halifax also worked out that Mr D may have made smaller repayments at the relevant 
time and so it offered to reimburse a further £1.49 as compensatory interest in that 
regard.I can see that between August 2005 and February 2006, Mr D was charged six over-
limit fees of £25 each. When it reconstructed the account, Halifax worked out that if 
the PPI had not been charged to the account, Mr D would not have exceeded the 
credit card limit until January 2006. With that in mind, it offered to reimburse £100 of 
those over-limit charges, which represents four over-limit fees between August and 
December 2005. No further interest was charged after February 2006 when the 
account was charged off. I am provisionally satisfied Halifax fairly calculated and 
offered to refund the additional interest and fees Mr D paid because of the PPI.
Halifax also calculated and offered to pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the PPI
premiums from the date the account was charged off until it made its offer to Mr D.
So the offer from Halifax contains all of the elements that I would typically expect. But 
in these circumstances, my provisional view is that Halifaxs offer is in fact more 
generous than I would usually require of it.
I say this because when the credit card was charged off in February 2006, there was 
an outstanding balance of £7,986.22. The PPI was charged to the credit card every 
month, depending on Mr Ds outstanding balance at the time. But as there was an 
outstanding balance when the account was charged off, it means Mr D hadnt fully 
paid for the PPI.
Halifax sold the debt to a third-party, so it could not keep the compensation back to 
reduce the outstanding balance. But I would usually only expect 8% simple interest to 
be paid where Mr Ds account would have been in credit but for the PPI policy. In 
other words, I would only expect 8% simple interest to be paid from the point the 
account was paid off in full.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr D did repay the balance in full at any 
point. So as things stand, I wouldnt usually expect Halifax to pay 8% simple interest 
while there remains an outstanding balance on the account.
Nonetheless, I dont think it would be fair for me to tell Halifax to remove the 8% 
simple interest or to reduce its offer of compensation. Halifax was aware of these 
matters when it made its offer to Mr D. So, I intend to tell Halifax to honour and pay to 
Mr D the offer of £1,443.22 it made to him on 28 May 2020.
Were Mr Ds alleged consequential losses caused by the PPI policy?
I am sorry to see Mr D was going through a very difficult time in 2005. It is putting it 
mildly to say the difficulties he endured at that time caused him a great deal of stress 
and upset. There is no doubt about that.
But in order for me to make an award for the significant consequential losses Mr D 
says he incurred; I have to be satisfied that those losses were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI. I have given this matter some very careful thought, but I agree with 
our adjudicator that I cannot say the difficulties Mr D encountered were caused by 
the PPI mis-sale. I make no comment as to whether those difficulties were caused by 
the insurers alleged declined claim or Halifaxs administration thereafter. Such 
matters are subject to separate complaints as appropriately set up by our adjudicator 
and will be dealt with accordingly.
Earnings shortfall
In his complaint submission, Mr D gave details of earnings he said he had lost as a 
result of Halifax mis-selling PPI. As I said above, Mr D estimated those earnings to amount to £295,797. He believed those losses arose from Halifax withdrawing the 
PPI facility.
Mr D made many references to Halifax withdrawing the PPI facility. But it seems to 
me that what he means by that is the alleged decision by Halifaxs insurer to reject a 
claim in or around May 2005. I say this because the PPI appears to have been 
cancelled by Mr D, and not by Halifax. Halifaxs electronic records appear to show 
that Mr D contacted it to cancel the policy. And I note in his email to this service 
dated 16 April 2021 that Mr D accepts he cancelled the policy because of Halifax 
denying access to the facility. In other words, after he believes a claim was not paid.
Accordingly, it seems to me that Mr Ds argument as to lost earnings arises from a 
claim not being paid. As I have stated, this will be considered separately elsewhere 
and it would not be appropriate for me to make any comment about what the insurer 
did or did not do at that time.
Nevertheless, I have considered whether payment of the monthly PPI premiums 
could have impacted on Mr Ds future earnings. From the evidence provided by Mr D, 
the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest that the PPI premiums and associated 
interest of £751.13 either directly or indirectly caused Mr D to lose earnings of 
£295,797. If Mr D considers I am wrong on that point, I would invite him to provide 
me with any evidence or information he has to show that payment of the PPI 
premiums caused him to lose earnings.
Pension
Mr D also told us that he had to sell his pension under duress to obtain funds to 
alleviate his financial difficulties arising from the mis-sale of PPI. Mr D told us the 
value of the pension fund at sale was £27,588. After applying an RPI rate of inflation 
and costs of the sale, Mr D valued his losses in this regard at £34,759.90.
I do not doubt at all that Mr D genuinely holds Halifax responsible for the loss of his 
pension pot. It is not entirely clear to me whether Mr D believes such losses to arise 
from the alleged declined claim I have referred to above. But having considered Mr 
Ds submissions at some considerable length, Im afraid I cannot see how Halifax 
erroneously charging Mr D £751.13 for PPI would have caused him to withdraw his 
pension of £27,588. Again, if Mr D has evidence that the PPI costs of £751.13 being 
added to his credit card account caused him such losses, I would strongly encourage 
him to provide that information in response to this provisional decision.
Overdraft charges
In his complaint submission, Mr D told us that charges had been levied on his current
account from 1 November 2005 to 13 September 2016. Mr D provided a calculation 
as to those charges and the starting point for that calculation appears to be May 
2010. Mr D says that the mis-sale of PPI caused him to incur those charges.
As above, in order for me to say these charges were caused by the mis-sale, I would 
have to be satisfied that payment of the premiums caused Mr D to incur such current 
account charges. My provisional view in this regard is that I cannot reasonably say 
that charges, which were incurred sometime after Mr D stopped paying for the PPI 
premiums, can be attributed to the mis-sale. Again, if Mr D has information or 
evidence to the contrary, I would encourage him to provide it in response to this 
provisional decision.Anxiety and distress
Mr D told us that the PPI mis-sale had a wider and foreseeable impact upon every 
aspect of his financial and professional life. As I said above, there is no doubt that Mr 
D was going through a very difficult time in 2005. But in order for me to attribute 
those difficulties to the mis-sale, Id have to be satisfied they were caused by 
payment of the PPI premiums up to April 2005. The evidence before me doesnt 
suggest that to be the case.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. No response was received from Halifax. Mr D 
responded initially to request that I postpone my consideration of a final decision. He also 
sent a substantive response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr D was very keen for me to delay my consideration of the complaint, but after 
giving very careful thought to all of the issues he raised, Ive decided not to postpone issuing 
this final decision. Our adjudicator notified Mr D about this on 26 August 2022. And Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr D, but I havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Is it fair to proceed with this final decision? 
Mr D telephoned and wrote to our adjudicator to say he didnt think it was fair for me to 
continue with this final decision because he thought all of his complaints should be dealt with 
at once. In summary, Mr D didnt think it would be right to proceed until responsibility could 
be attributed for each event he had complained about. He said that it wasnt fair for me to 
issue a final decision when Halifax had been given extra time to provide a final response 
letter in connection with his linked complaint. 
I know Mr D feels strongly that I should not proceed with the final decision now. Im satisfied 
both parties have had sufficient time to respond to my provisional decision. And I note the 
comprehensive response received by Mr D after an extension of time was agreed. I can see 
no prejudice or advantage to either party in me proceeding with this final decision. 
I say this because the issues with respect of the mis-sale are distinct from the other matters. 
I know Mr D feels there is considerable overlap between the complaints. But what I am 
considering in this complaint is whether Mr D has been fairly compensated for the mis-sale 
that took place in 2003. A significant part of Mr Ds complaint is that Halifax is responsible for 
a number of consequential losses (or indirect losses). But in order to consider those alleged 
losses as part of this mis-sale complaint, I would have to be satisfied that they flowed from 
the mis-sale. I know Mr D believes they did. But for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision and upon which I have elaborated further below, I cannot reasonably say the sale of 
PPI in 2003 or the resulting payment of the PPI premiums caused the losses Mr D claims. 
The issues arising from the manner in which Halifax administered Mr Ds account and about 
the insurer are being dealt with separately and Im afraid I cant agree with Mr D that they 
overlap with the mis-sale in 2003 and the payment of the PPI premiums thereafter. On that 
basis, I am satisfied it is fair for me to issue this decision now. Mr Ds substantive response 
Mr D provided me with a comprehensive reply to the provisional decision and referred me to 
various documents. Whilst I have not made reference to each document in this final 
decision, I want to again assure the parties that I have considered the file in detail and taken 
account of all of the information I was referred to. 
Mr D has not commented on what I said in respect of the calculation Halifax undertook to 
work out the compensation it offered, or that its calculation was more generous than I would 
usually expect. So, I havent considered this part further. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, Halifax will need to arrange to pay £1,443.22 to Mr D should he accept 
my decision. 
Mr D says I shouldnt have limited my consideration to payment of the PPI premiums. He 
said this was not a standard PPI claim and that I should have considered his indirect losses. 
I have not limited my consideration in that way. I can consider consequential losses, but in 
order to decide the complaint in the way that Mr D seeks, I would have to find that those 
alleged losses were caused by the sale of PPI  that would usually be at the point of sale in 
2003 and/or the impact of paying for the premiums thereafter. The issue in this case is not 
that I cannot consider Mr Ds consequential losses  it is that I cannot reasonably link the 
considerable losses claimed to the sale of PPI or the payment of the PPI premiums. 
Mr D says that Halifax knew in 2005 that the PPI was not suitable for him and that it 
proceeded to enforce payment for sums it knew were not due and froze his accounts so that 
he could not use them. He says it is this action which was the catalyst for the difficulties he 
encountered thereafter. From the information provided by Halifax, it looks as though Mr D 
may have been able to use his credit card up to July 2005  which is after the PPI was 
cancelled. It looks as though he ran into significant difficulties shortly afterwards because I 
cant see any payments made by Mr D to the credit card account after that time. 
I know the PPI made Mr Ds balance higher than it should have been. But I cant realistically 
say the presence of the PPI premiums on the account caused the resulting difficulties Mr D 
told us about. As no repayments were made to the card after July 2005, it seems Mr D may 
well have had difficulties in making repayments irrespective of the PPI policy. Halifax 
recognised that the presence of PPI caused some over limit fees. It offered to refund those 
fees to Mr D. As I explained in my provisional decision, there is an outstanding balance and 
Mr D hadnt actually paid those fees. 
Mr D says Halifax should have stopped its debt collection process and agreed to a payment 
holiday to prevent the difficulties that arose thereafter, but I cant say that its decision to 
proceed with debt collection was as a result of the PPI premiums or the mis-sale in 2003. 
Mr D also argued that when his claim was allegedly refused, the insurer was acting on 
instructions given to it by Halifax and so Halifax was responsible for the difficulties arising 
thereafter. However, if the insurer did decline a claim, I would usually expect it do so after 
receipt of an application made by Mr D. It is not immediately clear to me how Halifax could 
have instructed the insurer to refuse a claim if that claim should ultimately have been 
successful. In any event, I cannot link what is alleged by Mr D in this regard to the PPI sale. 
In my provisional decision, I asked Mr D to provide me with any further information or 
evidence he had to link the alleged earnings shortfall, disposal of pension, overdraft charges 
and his health matters to the sale of PPI. Mr D did provide me with more information about 
those matters. But it seems that the information comprises further details about the alleged 
losses. I cannot see anything further in the additional documentation that Mr D provided to persuade me that the considerable losses claimed were caused by the sale of PPI in 2003 or 
the payment of the premiums up to May 2005. 
As I said in my provisional decision, it is not in doubt that Mr D was going through a very 
difficult time in 2005. But Im afraid I cannot see how the sale of PPI caused those 
difficulties. I am sorry to disappoint Mr D, but for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision and the additional reasons I have given above, I do not uphold the complaint. 
However, if Mr D accepts my decision, I do require Halifax to honour its original offer and 
arrange to pay £1,443.22 to him. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. However, if Mr D accepts my 
decision, Bank of Scotland plc will need to pay its original offer of £1,443.22 to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman