DRN-3420824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that they werent informed in good time by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
that the interest only part of their buy to let mortgage was coming to an end and their annual 
statements didnt alert them that they had an interest-only part to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a buy to let mortgage from 2003. This was on a property they lived in but 
then let out. Barclays sent them a letter dated 12 October 2020 telling them that the interest 
only part of that mortgage was maturing on 3 May 2021. Mr and Mrs M say that until this 
time they were unaware of the interest only part as they understood that the whole mortgage 
was repayment which was to be paid off in 2028 in line with Mr Ms retirement age when he 
would be 65. But it seems that Mr and Mrs M had taken out an interest only home 
improvement loan on their buy to let property in 2008 for £27,800 which they say they were 
unaware of.
Our investigator noted that Mr And Mrs Ms complaint was in two parts. Firstly, that Mr and 
Mrs M didnt recall taking out the home improvement loan or receiving the money. Secondly, 
that Barclays hadnt alerted them to the fact over the years that part of the mortgage was 
interest only. Our investigators view was that under the time limits that apply to us that the 
first part of the complaint was brought too late and we could not consider it. In any case he 
noted that there was evidence of the existence of the loan  a mortgage offer of 1 May 2008 
for a loan of £27,800 over a 13 year term ; a completion letter of 14 May 2008 confirming 
that a sum of £27,800 had been debited to the mortgage account and the new mortgage 
balance was £122,142.16 ; a mortgage statement dated 31 December 2008 showing that on 
8 May 2008 a cheque was issued to Mr and Mrs M for £27,765.
Mr and Mrs M asked our investigator to proceed with investigating the second part of the 
complaint namely that Barclays hadnt made it clear in its annual statements that part of the 
loan was to mature in 2021. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as this was an unregulated mortgage, so Barclays didnt have to issue reminders and 
Mr and Mrs M should have known from when they took out the further borrowing in 2008 that 
part of the mortgage wasnt being repaid as part of the monthly repayments. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M got a letter on 12 October 2020 telling them of the maturity of the interest only 
part of their mortgage in about 6/7 months time. Although the letter requests the money to 
be repaid it also suggests that the term of the loan could be extended.
Mr and Mrs Ms problem is that until that date they were unaware that there was a separate 
interest only loan but understood that all their borrowing was on a repayment only basis 
maturing in 2028. They had originally borrowed £103,750 on a repayment basis. Mr and Mrs 
M got annual statements which didnt distinguish between the two elements of the loan and 
they say this led them to believe that there was only one loan and, until they got the letter in 
2020,  they also assumed that if they paid the monthly repayments, it would all be paid off in 
2028.
Mr and Mrs M seem to have forgotten that they took out interest only borrowing and that the 
repayments wouldnt pay off the whole balance. The annual mortgage statements dont 
distinguish between the different elements of the mortgage and I recognise that if Mr and 
Mrs M had  forgotten that they had borrowed more money in 2008 that its possible for them 
to have believed  as they say  that if they continued with the monthly repayments, that the 
mortgage would be paid off in 2028. On the other hand, any analysis of the annual 
statements would show that the monthly repayments wouldnt pay off the mortgage by 2028. 
I see that Mr M in his email of 16 April 2022 does that analysis and notes that there will be a 
shortfall but says that he never felt it necessary to review he payments as he had assumed 
that the monthly payments related to a repayment only mortgage which would pay off the 
loan in 2028. 
Residential mortgages are regulated by the FCA and buy to let mortgages are not. The 
reason being that buy to let mortgages are related to buy to let businesses where the 
borrowers would be expected to know what their borrowing is and when its to be paid back. 
Mr and Mrs M have referred me on several occasions to MCOBs which are rules for 
regulated mortgages but the regulations that lenders have to comply with for residential 
mortgages simply dont apply to the mortgage Mr and Mrs M have with Barclays. I note that 
in his email to us of 16 April 2022 Mr M refers me to the terms of another lender who would 
do things differently than Barclays with regards to a home improvement loan. But that looks 
to be a loan attached to a residential mortgage which isnt the case here. Mr and Mrs M have 
also referred me to the protections that would be available if this were a Consumer Buy to 
Let mortgage. But these were introduced in 2016 and Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage entered into 
in the 2000s isnt one of them. So, this mortgage doesnt have the protections of MCOBs.
Mr and Mrs M forgot that they borrowed money on an interest only basis and say that 
Barclays should have reminded them. But in any business, I would have thought it was 
reasonable for the borrower to keep a record of when the money was to be repaid without 
the need for prompting on an annual basis from the bank. I dont accept that the bank should 
be required to do that nor does the regulator. In any event the clues were there in any 
analysis of the annual mortgage statements which, if that were done, would have shown that 
the monthly repayments werent going to repay the capital. I also note that Mr M worked in 
banking and of course would have known that interest only payments dont pay off capital. I 
see nothing in the statements that backed Mr and Mrs Ms assumption that the repayments 
alone would pay off the capital. I dont consider that Barclays has done anything wrong and I 
wont be upholding this complaint. But I hope that Mr and Mrs M will be able to come to 
some arrangement with Barclays about repaying the capital.    
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman