DRN-2828580
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) unfairly
declined part of his claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr T noticed water dripping through his bedroom ceiling. The roof was leaking. 
The leak caused internal damage. The following day Mr T called his home insurance 
provider, Ocaso. They told him to find a roofer. 
Mr T found a roofing company. They visited his home and told him a tile was broken. They 
sealed this and removed debris. But a few days later the roof leaked again.
The same roofing company returned to Mr Ts home and found a crack in the roof valley
lining. They carried out a temporary repair for £250. They quoted £600 for the permanent 
repair.
During this time, Ocasos loss adjuster attended Mr Ts home and arranged for the internal 
damage to be repaired. But Ocaso told Mr T that the roof repairs wouldnt be covered under 
his policy.
Unhappy with this decision, Mr T complained to Ocaso in August 2020. He felt that a storm 
had caused the leak. He asked Ocaso to cover the cost of the temporary and permanent 
repairs his roof needed.
Ocaso didnt uphold his complaint. In their final response letter of August 2020 they told Mr T
that the internal damage was covered as it had been caused by an insured event. But they 
said the external damage wasnt covered as it wasnt the result of any insured peril. They 
said the roof valley lining had suffered from normal wear and tear and that Mr Ts roofing 
company supported this view. 
Ocaso also told Mr T that unless he completed the required permanent repair his insurance 
policy wouldnt cover him for any future leaks through that area of the roof.
So Mr T paid a different roofer £400 to carry out the permanent repair. But, unhappy with 
their response, he brought his complaint to this service. He wanted Ocaso to refund him the 
£650 (£250 plus £400) hed paid for roof repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that the damage to the roof had been 
caused by wear and tear, not a storm. So he didnt think Ocaso had treated Mr T unfairly.
Mr T didnt agree. He felt that persistent heavy rain had caused the damage. So this 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is 
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by 
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of 
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its 
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mr T feels strongly that his roof was damaged by the persistent heavy rain experienced just 
before the claim. Ocaso didnt think that the heavy rain had caused the damage. They said 
the roof was damaged through normal wear and tear, which isnt covered under the policy.
As our investigator mentioned, when our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are 
three questions to consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then a claim should likely succeed. 
However, if the answer to any of the questions is no, then its unlikely the claim would be 
covered under the storm damage part of the policy.
For 1., theres no dispute that there was torrential rain in the area around the time of the 
loss. And both parties accept that the heavy rain could be classed as a storm under the 
terms of the policy, so I wont considered this further.
For 2., the source of the leak was a split in the valley gutter liner. The roofer who completed 
the temporary repair wasnt sure what had caused the damage. But said it couldve been 
caused by movement in the roof structure or as a result or premature ageing/wear and tear.
In a typical storm with very strong winds, the structure or the roof could move. So Im 
satisfied the damage could be classed as consistent with that caused by a typical storm.
For 3, Ocaso dont think that storm conditions were the dominant cause of the crack in the 
roof. They said the damage was caused by normal wear and tear. But Mr T disagrees.
Looking at the evidence, the roofer who identified the leak said that the valley liner was in 
reasonably good condition. They felt that the cause of the damage wasnt obvious and 
mayve been caused by movement in the roof or by premature ageing. 
The storm conditions Mr T experienced didnt include strong winds, which wouldve been 
needed to move the roof. So I dont consider the storm caused any movement. Premature 
ageing of the roof would be considered wear and tear.
The loss adjuster told Mr T: from the comments and possible reasons for the split to have 
occurred, there is nothing to suggest that the zinc liner has been damaged by an event 
which is covered by your insurance policy.
The loss adjuster also said: The split to the valley gutter from my years of doing this job is 
almost certain to be due to the age of the material. Heavy rain cannot cause the material to 
split.Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that storm conditions werent the dominant 
cause of the roof damage. And Im not persuaded that Mr T has shown that the damage to 
the roof was caused by the heavy rain, or any other policy peril. The damage appears to 
have been caused by wear and tear to the roof, which isnt covered under Mr Ts policy. So I 
dont consider that Ocaso did anything wrong when they declined to cover the cost of the 
roof repairs. 
Mr T has been very clear that he couldnt have known that the valley gutter was damaged. 
He feels his insurance is there to protect him from such things. I agree. His insurance did 
protect him from the internal damage done due to the roof leak. The leak was sudden and 
unexpected.
But Ocaso told Mr T that his insurance policy wouldnt cover him for any future leaks through 
that area of the roof if he didnt repair the roof. I can see why they did this. If he didnt get the 
roof fixed any further leaks wouldnt be unexpected.
Mr T has asked: Why would one be covered by an outcome of the problem and not be 
covered for the source of the problem?. The answer is that the insured peril was covered, 
but the wear and tear issue wasnt. The heavy rain led to a roof leak due to wear and tear in 
the roof. The wear and tear wasnt covered  no insurance policy Ive ever seen provides 
such cover. But the damage from the leak was covered as it was from a sudden and 
unexpected event. 
Mr T has also pointed out that there were other storms that couldve affected the integrity of 
his roof without him knowing. He would like to know how the cumulative impact of those 
storms is taken into account in his roof claim. 
But I note that if insurers had to consider the impact of all storms/bad weather on roofs than 
they would effectively be providing cover for all roofs all of the time. Insurance provides 
covers for sudden and unexpected one-off events. The cumulative effect of weather on roofs 
is wear and tear.
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded Ocaso did anything wrong. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman