DRN-1465246
 
The complaint
 Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1998 Mr D took out the PPI when he applied for a credit card during a meeting in one of 
the banks branches. The policy protected Mr Ds credit card monthly repayments if he 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr D disagrees. Mr Ds main complaint 
is that he didnt know that he had PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its completely understandable that Mr D mightve forgotten some of the details about this 
sale. Ive seen his completed credit card application. Under the heading OPTIONAL 
FEATURES his application was ticked to include PPI. There were other optional features 
that Mr D didnt opt to include  so I think he would've understood that it was up to him to 
say if he wanted to have PPI. 
I accept that this form may have been completed for Mr D by a Lloyds advisor. But I think its 
likely that the information on the form probably reflected discussions the advisor had with Mr 
D. I think its reasonable to expect that Mr D wouldve looked carefully over the completed 
application before signing to make sure the information on it properly reflected his wishes. 
And I think its fair to say that by signing the completed application Mr D indicated that he 
agreed with what it said on the form. 
I dont know what was discussed when Mr D applied for his credit card with PPI. But, despite 
what he remembers now, I think it wouldve been clear from the paperwork Mr D signed to 
get his credit card that the PPI was optional. And I think the policy was added to his credit 
card account when he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr D. If a bank makes a recommendation about PPI 
it should provide important policy information clearly and take reasonable steps to make sure 
the cover it recommends is suitable.
It doesnt look to me as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr D based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or 
sickness. And PPI couldve covered Mr Ds credit card monthly repayments if hed lost his 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Mr D hasnt mentioned any significant other means he couldve depended on if he wasnt 
able to work. It looks like he could've only relied on getting statutory sick pay. Its not clear if 
he had any savings at the time  but even if thats the case, it seems these were earmarked 
for a different purpose. And I cant assume that Mr D would've always had savings to rely on 
if hed needed to make a claim on the policy.
It looks like another policy he may have had set up provided a different sort of cover to PPI 
and paid out in different circumstances. 
And relying on family to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
On balance, looking at what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, I think the PPI 
couldve provided Mr D with useful benefits. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what 
it might pay out if Mr D made a claim. But Mr D signed up for the policy when he didnt have 
to  so he seems to have wanted this type of cover. The policy appears to have been 
affordable for Mr D at the time  he couldve cancelled it if his circumstances changed or he 
didnt want to pay for it.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve affected Mr D. So, 
I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put 
Mr D off taking out the PPI.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely Mr D wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, given his circumstances and the benefits the 
policy offered him, I think he still wouldve taken out the policy.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman