DRN-4078396
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
On 3 September 2022, Miss B made a claim online as her car had been stolen. In error, this 
was incorrectly set up by her as a notification only and closed. On 8 September, it was 
reopened after she called to find out what was happening, and the mistake was realised. In 
the call, Miss B explained she had another car she wanted to insure as soon as possible. 
On 22 September, the police recovered her car. It was deemed repairable by Advantage on 
7 October and it contacted Miss B to let her know but the notes show she didnt answer. 
Miss B spoke to Advantage on 22 October and said she didn't want the car back as shed 
bought a new one and wanted the case handler to call her to discuss this. The case handler 
contacted Miss B over the next few days and sought internal guidance on her request. On 26 
October, the case handler explained Advantage could pay the repair cost less the VAT 
including the savage amount. Miss B wanted to think about it and would call the next day.
On 7 November, Miss B messaged Advantage and said shed been on hold three times for 
at least 45 minutes in the few days beforehand and needed someone to get in touch to help 
her understand what was happening. By this point, shed received a letter from Advantages 
agent to say her car was beyond economical repair. On 19 November, Miss B again 
contacted Advantage. A couple of days later the case handler called her but the notes 
suggest the call was disconnected and she wasnt called back. 
On 28 November, Miss B asked Advantage to explain her options and for a valuation of her 
car. She was told the case handler would call but this didnt happen. Miss B made several 
calls and on 9 January 2023 an agent was instructed to assess if it was repairable. The 
agent reported the car was a total loss and this was confirmed to Miss B on 2 February. 
Miss B says Advantage unreasonably delayed the claim and failed to give her clear and 
consistent information. The call handlers she spoke to weren't able to help her, the case 
handler didn't call her back when asked or respond to emails and she wasnt given the 
correct name for her case handler which meant she wasnt able to speak to them. This claim 
has increased her premium and she is also in debt as she had to go out straightaway to buy 
another car to get to work as she wasnt offered a courtesy car.
Miss B complained to Advantage. Advantage accepted the service had been poor. And, 
although it agreed it could have given Miss B a better understanding of the process, it didnt 
agree it was responsible for any delays in progressing the claim. To put things right, it 
apologised, offered to £35 and confirmed feedback had been given about case handlers 
using nicknames or shortened versions of their name. Miss B didnt agree this was enough. 
She also explained the excess has been taken out of her settlement leaving her unable to 
cover the debt on her new car or the extra for the increased premium.
Our investigator looked into matters and increased the compensation to £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Miss B. They took the time to explain some matters to her 
such as why she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. Miss B disagreed initially with the 
investigator because, although she now understands things much better because of the 
investigators support, Advantage wasnt clear during the claim and so the stress of this 
couldve been avoided. Advantage also disagreed. It says Miss B delayed the claim and this 
resulted in her getting what she wanted - to have the car written off  when Advantage was 
just trying to help her by going outside its terms and offering an alternative to repairs. 
As the parties didnt agree, the matter was passed to me for a decision. Having reviewed 
matters, I explained to both parties why I thought Advantage should pay Miss B £400 in 
compensation. Advantage didnt agree this was reasonable. It felt the fact the delay had 
benefitted Miss B had been disregarded - a total loss settlement wouldnt have been 
possible without the delays. And the notes need to be reviewed to highlight Miss Bs 
reluctance to progress a repair claim. Further, it says we havent seen any evidence of a 
finance agreement and Miss B changed her car after 5 days which shows she didnt rely on 
the claim settlement funds to buy it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts here arent in dispute. Advantage admits it got things wrong. The key issue I 
must decide is whether the things it has done to put things right is fair and reasonable. To do 
this, I need to distinguish between the distress and inconvenience Miss B suffered because 
her car was stolen and its consequences, which Advantage isnt responsible for, with what 
Advantage did or failed to do that mightve added to that distress. For example, the 
deduction of her excess from the settlement sum and increased subsequent premiums - 
whilst understandably frustrating for Miss B  are a consequence of her car being stolen 
rather than Advantages poor service. And I havent seen anything to suggest the deduction 
of the excess or increased premium is unreasonable.
Turning to the matters it is responsible for. When dealing with a claim, under the Insurance: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS) 8.1, a business is required to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim 
and appropriate information on its progress. Taking everything into account, its my view 
Advantage has fallen considerably short of its obligations in this matter. Ill explain why. 
Advantages internal notes show Miss B wasn't given clear or appropriate guidance, nor was 
her claim handled promptly or her questions answered fully. There were various calls 
requested by her that weren't made and other examples Ive seen of poor service which 
were undoubtedly exacerbated by the failure of the case handler to give Miss B their correct 
name. The notes from Advantage and its agent show miscommunications between them 
about the repairs and storage. This caused further confusion for Miss B about the options 
available and how to move forward. Given the first report dated 3 October 2022 about the 
repairability of the car had an engineers valuation as well as an estimate of the cost of 
repairs, I cant see a further report was necessary. The information requested by Miss B in 
November to help her decide how to move forward was already available to Advantage.
All the above will have undoubtedly led to this claim taking longer than it should have and 
the condition of the vehicle worsening. Advantage itself accepts it shouldve given Miss B a 
better understanding of the process, so its surprising it also says it wasnt responsible for 
any delays in progressing the claim. It was Advantage who shouldve given clear and full 
information to Miss B to help her make a decision and controlled the progress of the claim, ultimately instructing the repairs in a timely manner and returning the car to Miss B if it 
wasnt willing to pay her the market value of the car or reach an agreeable settlement. 
I recognise Advantage say the delays were ultimately to Miss B's benefit in that her car was 
written off rather than returned to her. But this doesn't excuse the failures and poor service 
she endured throughout the claim. And I dont consider it likely she wanted to have five 
months without the benefit of her car (even if she chose to sell it as she had a replacement) 
or the money she was due. Particularly at a time when she says she had to take on a debt to 
pay for the new car as well as cover a significantly increased premium.
I think its right that Advantage should compensate Miss B for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its failures in this matter and the poor progress of the claim. Taking 
everything into account, I dont consider the apology Advantage has given, feedback its 
shared internally and the compensation of £35 offered to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Instead, it should pay a total compensation of £400. 
Advantages further comments dont change my decision. It focuses on Miss B buying a 
replacement car 5 days later, but she has mitigated her losses in doing so  something we 
and most businesses would expect a consumer to do. I dont consider it necessary to see 
evidence of the debt Miss B says she took out to buy the replacement car. She has referred 
to this consistently throughout and Im not awarding interest based on that debt or for 
Advantage to pay a specific part of it. Further, even if Miss B didnt take on a debt and was 
able to use money which was readily available to buy the car  something which is likely to 
be increasingly difficult for many consumers - she was then prevented from using her money 
for anything else or earning interest until the matter was resolved five months later.
Putting things right
To put things right, Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay to Miss B a total of 
£400 compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss B accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
needs to do the things set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman