DRN-3104092
The complaint
Mr K says the trading platform for his Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) account submitted 
and executed a Limit Order Options trade (the trade) on 18 August 2020 without his 
involvement or consent, and that it thereafter prevented him from cancelling the trade when 
he became aware of it. He seeks compensation for financial loss resulting from the trade.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. He mainly found as follows:
The trade was based on five Options contacts (KODK 21AUG20 at $1.75 limit price). 
Account log-on evidence shows that Mr K logged into the account at 12:28:44 
Eastern Time (ET) on 18 August 2020 and submitted the trade at 12:30:53 ET.
Transaction audit records confirm that the trades execution was reported to Mr Ks 
account at 12:31:03.545 ET, then at 12:31:03.546 ET he made an attempt to cancel 
it. That attempt failed because it had already been executed a second previously. 
There is telephone recording evidence which suggests Mr K initially made the trade 
in error and then tried to cancel it, and there is a lack of evidence to support his claim 
that a technical fault in the platform was what led to an erroneous submission of the 
trade.
An error that did occur was a price cap notification for the trade, sent after its 
execution, which could have caused some confusion. IB accepts this notification was 
sent in error. For the inconvenience this could have caused Mr K IB should pay him 
£50, but nothing from this error caused him a financial loss.
Mr K disagreed with this outcome. He said  
I do not agree that a limit order was placed in the system  in order to place an order you 
set a limit price and the IB system then provides you with a live quote and price warning. If 
you wish to proceed beyond that point, you either click cancel order or submit order. 
The logs you were provided do not prove conclusively that I actually actioned a trade or 
even attempted to cancel it. It proves their system actioned a trade and then simultaneously 
attempted to cancel it  there simply is no function to 'cancel' any trade of any kind except 
that which has Not been submitted yet.
He then said  
I contacted IB after I noticed the trade had gone through. To be clear, this is the time line of 
events:
* place limit order for kodk options
* system notified me of price warning
* decided not to place order and walked away from system to make some coffee
* get notification on mobile that the trade had gone through
* got back to system to see trade execution confirmation screen still up (proceed or cancel
prompt). Took screenshot to prove trade had not executed on user side and then contacted 
IB to inform them
*clicked 'cancel' trade on the trade confirmation prompt and it didn't work
The investigator was not persuaded to change his views and the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The log-on and transaction audit evidence that has been made available to us is as the 
investigator described in his views, and is as I have summarised above. The information 
about the trade and its execution, within that evidence, is not disputed. It is clear from Mr Ks 
submissions, as quoted above, that there is also no dispute that he was logged into the 
account at the relevant time and that, at the very least, he accepts setting up the limit order 
for the trade. 
The main matters in dispute are his claim that he did not place/submit the order/trade 
(instead, he says a platform error did that) and that, contrary to what IB says and what the 
investigator found, his attempt to cancel the limit order that he had set up happened before it 
was submitted (because it was never submitted) and not after. It is on this basis that he 
holds IB responsible for submission and execution of the trade and for the financial loss (and 
lost opportunity to trade on the loss amount) he says he incurred from it.
In this respect, I consider the available telephone recording evidence to be important. Three 
such recordings between Mr K and IB, from 18 August 2020, have been shared with us. In 
the first recording (which was relatively brief) Mr K can be heard reporting the issue. He did 
so as follows  
I set an order on the platform and I set it by accident, and I cancelled it, but its still gone 
ahead and executed like 10 15 minutes later
In the second recording, Mr K reported the issue as follows  
There seems to be an issue, um, I placed an order and then I cancelled it immediately after 
and it still executed the order like 10 20 minutes later, whenever I came back to the 
computer Ive seen that its actually executed  its an order that shouldnt have executed, 
its been cancelled
Later in the call he proceeded to say he had not submitted the order yet so it should not 
have been executed. IB put him on hold to check the audit trail for the trade and returned to 
say the trade was submitted by him, was executed 10 seconds thereafter and that there is 
no record of an attempt to cancel it before execution. Mr Ks response was that such an 
account is impossible, that there must be a problem with IBs system and that he cancelled 
it immediately after [he] placed it. IB maintained that the audit trail showed what had been 
summarised. He then asked to make a complaint and as he was being guided to the section 
in the website relevant to doing so, he reported seeing the price cap notification pop-up. IB 
then offered to refer that to its technical team, but repeated that the audit trail showed what it 
showed.In the third call, Mr K mainly said the order was never submitted, that it should not have been 
executed, that the price cap notification pop-up during the previous conversation added 
support to his claim that the platform was faulty and that he wanted to proceed with a 
complaint. IB then guided him through the submission of his complaint.
Mr Ks position appears to have shifted  between the first and second calls, and certainly by 
the third  from one in which he confirmed placing the trade accidentally and then trying to 
cancel it, to one in which he denied placing the trade at all. His transition is evident in the 
second call, which he started by referring to his accidental placement of the order, but in 
which he then proceeded to say he had not submitted the order  only to follow that, as I 
have quoted above, by repeating that he cancelled the order immediately after placing it. 
Notably, at no point in the three calls does he appear to have raised what seems to be one 
of his core arguments at present  that it was not possible to cancel a trade once it had been 
placed and that cancellation could only be done before it was placed. It is reasonable to 
expect that such an argument would have been the simplest and most obvious for him to 
refer to during the calls, but he does not appear to have done so  seemingly because he 
already affirmed, in the second call, that he had placed the trade but subsequently tried to 
cancel it.
I have considered two questions relevant to the above. Before the third call, Mr K first said 
he had set the trade and then that he had placed the trade, did he mean, in both terms, no 
more than he had set up the trade (and then cancelled it before it was placed)? Was it 
possible, on 18 August 2020, to cancel a trade on IBs platform either before or after 
placement, or only before placement?
On balance, and in the context of the evidence available to me, I consider it more likely (than 
not) that Mr K was probably referring to placement of the order. I cannot reasonably 
speculate that the platform independently and erroneously placed the order, and there is no 
evidence to say that was the case. The log-on and transaction audit evidence is undisputed 
up to the point of him, having logged on for around two minutes, setting up the order; the 
evidence then says he placed/submitted it; he says he did not, but there is no evidence of an 
alternative occurrence and at least one of the three recorded calls confirms him saying (and 
repeating) that he placed it; his submissions to us include reference to a number of years 
experience in trading, so I do not consider it likely that he would have misused the word 
placed if he had not placed the trade. 
The above finding is not a precise one, it is one reached on the balance of probabilities. I 
cannot determine, with complete certainty, what Mr K did in the trade or what he meant to 
express in the telephone calls, but my remit allows me to make findings on the balance of 
probabilities and on the balance of available evidence, and I have done so above. 
I do not have evidence of precisely how the platform operated two years ago in August 2020, 
so a similar approach applies to the second question I posed above. I cannot determine, with 
complete certainty, whether (or not) the platform at the time permitted cancellation of a trade 
before or after placement, or only before placement. How the platform operates at present  
which I believe Mr K has referred us to  does not automatically indicate how it operated two 
years ago, especially given the tendency for firms to evolve and improve their trading 
platforms over time. However, as I noted above, available evidence is that Mr K does not 
appear to have raised this argument during the calls at the time. This suggests that either 
cancellation before or after placement of a trade was possible or, if it was not and if 
cancellation was only possible before placement, Mr K was unaware of that. Either 
potentially explains why the argument was not raised at the time, but in neither case (and for 
neither reason) can it be fairly and directly concluded that Mr K did not place the trade and/or 
that a platform error did. As I have said, I consider that Mr K probably placed the trade and I 
do not have evidence that a platform error did.For all the above reasons, and on balance, I am not persuaded that IB is responsible for the 
trade or for any financial loss resulting from it. I acknowledge the same point noted by the 
investigator about the confusion the subsequent price cap notification could have caused, 
but this appears to have been an after the event matter and I have not seen evidence that 
says it defeats the log-on and audit records of the trade being placed by Mr K. However, for 
the inconvenience it could have caused him, I invite IB to pay him the £50 recommended by 
the investigator. For the sake of clarity, Mr Ks claim is for financial loss (and lost opportunity) 
from the trade, and for the reasons given in this decision I do not uphold it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman