DRN-4448969
The complaint
Mr Y complains about Chaucer Insurance Company DAC (Chaucer) who declined his claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Y had a leak at his home that caused damage to his ceiling. He made a claim and paid 
the excess of £500. Chaucer sent a surveyor to trace and access the leak and assess the 
damage. A report was written, and the surveyor indicated that the cause of the leak, was as 
a result of long-term issues from the bathroom, as the sealant and grout were in a state of 
disrepair. 
Ultimately, Chaucer declined Mr Ys claim. And relied on the policy terms and conditions, 
that stated there was no cover for loss or damage, caused by the failure of sealant or grout 
in tiles. 
Mr Y complained to Chaucer and in its final response, it maintained the decision to decline 
the claim. It also apologised for some poor communication that Mr Y experienced. Mr Y was 
given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and partially upheld it. He said that 
Chaucer had been fair to decline the claim under the policy terms and conditions. But he felt 
it hadnt recognised the poor service issues and for this, he recommended it pay £100 
compensation, for the trouble and upset caused.
Chaucer did not respond to the view. Mr Y appeared to initially accept the view. But later 
appeared to query it and then didnt respond to our investigators communications. So, it has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I partially uphold this complaint, for the following reasons:
Chaucer was asked to provide its response to our investigators view, but no 
response has been received. Mr Y has provided a consistent account of the events 
that happened. In this case, despite the lack of response from Chaucer, I find I can 
decide on this complaint, and I think it fair that Mr Y has a resolution to the issues 
raised, despite the lack of engagement from Chaucer.
Chaucer appear to have accepted that its customer service fell well below the 
standard that it wouldve liked. I note that there was an avoidable delay in notifying   
Mr Y of his declined claim. There were also incidents of poor communication, which 
meant that Mr Y had to chase Chaucer for a response.
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied that Chaucer fairly 
declined to cover the claim. The policy stated that damage that had been caused as 
a result of failed sealant or grout, wasnt covered under the policy. 
Further, Im satisfied that Chaucer provided evidence from the trace and access 
report, to support that there had been long-term issues with the sealant and grout, 
that had caused the leak and the damage. 
Given the poor level of service that Mr Y experienced, I agree with our investigator 
that Chaucer ought to pay compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Putting things right
I direct Chaucer to put things right as I set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
To put matters right, Chaucer Insurance Company DAC ought to pay:
Compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Chaucer Insurance Company DAC must pay the above amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr Y accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman