DRN-1711687
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lowell Financial Ltd sent misleading information when it took over 
ownership of his credit card debt. 
What happened
On 23 September 2019 Lowell Portfolio I Ltd acquired a debt in Mr Ds name from the 
original lender. On 15 October 2019 Lowell Portfolio I Ltd sent Mr D the Notice of Variation 
(NOA) that set out the change in ownership. The correspondence included the original 
lenders NOA. The NOAs sent both said that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd had appointed Lowell 
Financial Ltd to administer the account on its behalf.  
Mr D says that on receipt of the NOAs he called the original lender and was told the letters 
he received werent genuine. Mr D complained and Lowell Financial responded on 
29 November 2019. Lowell Financials final response said there was no evidence a third 
party letter had been fraudulently sent to Mr D and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lowell Financial should have made it clearer that it takes the step of sending out the original 
lenders NOA. The investigator asked Lowell Financial to pay Mr D £50 and it agreed. Mr D 
didnt accept and responded to the investigator to say he didnt believe that Lowell Portfolio I 
Ltd owns the debt and that they remained concerned about the NOAs he received. As Mr D 
didnt accept, his case has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr D is concerned that the correct NOA process hasnt been followed. But Ive 
looked at the evidence available and I cant see any indication that an error has been made. 
The original lender sold the debt to Lowell Portfolio I Ltd on 23 September 2019 and, in line 
with the rules, NOAs were sent to Mr D around three weeks later. Ive reviewed the NOAs 
and they both confirm the change in ownership of the original debt. 
Mr D feels Lowell Financial shouldnt have sent the original lenders NOA, but Im not aware 
of any rule or regulation that says it cant take that step. Lowell Financial has confirmed there 
is an arrangement with the original owner of the debt that means it will send out the NOAs 
together. Thats a step its entitled to take. 
Both NOAs explains that the new debt owner is Lowell Portfolio I Ltd and that Lowell 
Financial Ltd would be the business administering it and contacting Mr D. Im satisfied the 
NOA dated 15 October 2019 clearly explains the new arrangement and what Mr D needed to 
do. 
Mr D has asked Lowell Financial to send him evidence that the original lender has agreed to 
allow it to send NOAs out on its behalf. But I wouldnt expect Lowell Financial to send its 
customers copies of correspondence between it and the original lender detailing the 
arrangements between them. Im satisfied that Lowell Financial has now correctly explained 
why it sent Mr D the original lenders NOA. 
Mr D says he remains concerned that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd isnt the owner of the debt. I 
appreciate Mr Ds concerns, but Im satisfied the evidence Ive seen shows the debt was 
acquired by Lowell Portfolio I Ltd on 23 September 2018 and that it is the owner. 
Lowell Financial has agreed to pay Mr D £50 because its final response failed to correctly 
explain why it had sent the NOA to Mr D on behalf of the original lender. I agree that Lowell 
Financial missed an opportunity to explain the situation to Mr D and I think the £50 its 
agreed to pay fairly reflects the impact of that error. 
I havent found anything to show Lowell Financial has made a mistake in terms of the way it 
corresponded with Mr D after his debt was acquired. I agree the final response could have 
been clearer. Lowell Financial has agreed to pay Mr D £50 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter and Im satisfied that is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lowell Financial Ltd to pay Mr D £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman