DRN-4395920
Complaint
Mr E has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Finio Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable given his circumstances at the time and 
so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Finio Loans provided Mr E with a loan for £4,000.00 in September 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £232.31. One of our investigators reviewed what 
Mr E and Finio Loans had told us. And she didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Es complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Ill explain why that is the case in a bit more detail.
Finio Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Finio Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr E could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Finio Loans says it agreed to Mr Es application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr E could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr E has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr E and Finio Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Finio Loans didnt just simply accept what Mr E had told it. 
It has suggested that it carried out credit searches which showed that Mr Es unsecured 
credit commitments werent excessive in comparison to his income and what he did have 
was relatively well maintained. For example, he had a low debt to income ratio, wasnt in 
arrears on any of his accounts at the time and there were no defaulted accounts or other 
significant adverse credit information recorded against him.
I accept that Mr E appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Finio Loans 
obtained. Ive noted what hes said about having an addiction at the time and having a 
number of loans having been removed from his credit file as a result of previous successful 
complaints. 
Im sorry to hear about what Mr E has told us. But its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Finio Loans 
wasnt aware of what Mr E has told us and while its sister company had previously lent to  
Mr E there was a significant break between his last loan with that company and this one. So 
I wouldnt have expected these loans to have factored into Finio Loans decision making 
here.
Furthermore, the loans that were removed from Mr Es credit file caused an improvement in 
his credit score. Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that Finio Loans wasnt aware of 
this, given that any previous difficulty Mr E might have had doesnt appear to have been 
priced into the APR that Mr E received on this loan.  
Given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of obvious indicators of difficulty in 
the information Finio Loans did obtain and what was obtained suggested the loan payments 
were affordable, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into requesting copies of Mr Es bank statements. 
At best, even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, which Im not 
necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks would only have gone as far as 
finding out more about Mr Es regular living costs. I dont think that obtaining bank 
statements was the only way that Finio Loans could have done this. So, in my view, Finio 
Loans couldnt possibly be expected to know about Mr Es addiction and the fact that this 
would make repaying this loan difficult.
As this is the case, I dont think that Finio Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr E - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
In reaching this conclusion, I acknowledge that this has resulted in a different outcome to a 
separate complaint about a different lender, which provided Mr E with a loan months before 
this loan. I dont know the specifics and intricacies of why Mr Es other complaint was 
upheld. But this doesnt in itself automatically mean that this complaint should also be 
upheld. My role here is to reach my own individual view bearing in mind the facts of this 
particular case.
In any event, what I do know about Mr Es other case is that the case handler concluded that 
the lender did know about Mr Es previous difficulties, as so was required to take this into 
account when deciding whether to lend. Whereas in this case, Ive considered what Finio 
Loans knew about Mr E and Ive also cross-checked this against the copy of the credit file  
Mr E provided us with. Having done all of this, it seems to me that Finio Loans could not have known about Mr Es 
previous circumstances. This is because Mr Es credit record does not show the loans that 
Mr E says have been removed and the break between Mr Es last loan with Finio Loans 
sister company and this loan means that Finio Loans could not reasonably be expected to 
have taken Mr Es previous lending into account either.
So while Im required to consider each case on its individual facts and not simply rubber-
stamp what might have happened on previous cases, nonetheless, I dont consider that the 
outcome Ive reached here is inconsistent, or incompatible, with the other case Mr E has 
received an outcome on and has referred to.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Finio Loans treated Mr E unfairly 
or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr E. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman