DRN-4373459
The complaint
Ms B complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc has not supported her through difficulties she has 
faced with her bank account and cards.
What happened
Ms B said she has experienced ongoing issues with her AIB current account, starting when 
her credit card was stopped due to a suspect transaction. She said she was on holiday when 
the bank queried this, and she didnt receive its message/call and her card was cancelled.
Ms B used an alternative card and got a new card when she got home. She was unaware a 
security watch was on her card until a transaction was blocked and this was more expensive 
the next day. Ms B also lost online access as she hadnt logged on for 90 days and restoring 
this took time and effort, particularly as AIB called her outside of the times she had specified, 
and its online team didnt contact her. Ms B said that AIB hadnt addressed these issues.
Ms B said her new card was rejected for travel and other transactions. She doesnt know 
why these attempted transactions dont show in AIBs records, but thought there would be a 
record of her calls about this. She said AIB wont acknowledge the issue and says she can 
order a new card, but shes reluctant to do so as this may lead to further problems. 
Ms B said AIB doesnt appear to have any concern for personal banking, and doesnt take 
responsibility for customers problems. She wants a better service and compensation for her 
time dealing with the issues and her stress and embarrassment. She said she hadnt 
received compensation although it was offered, as her issues hadnt been resolved.
AIB responded to Ms Bs complaint by saying the security watch was put on her account to 
ensure its safety by ensuring that she had authenticated payments from her account. AIB 
apologised for the inconvenience of her blocked transaction and said she had missed its text 
requesting confirmation of the payment. AIB said it hadnt identified any issue with Ms Bs 
new card and requested her to call to discuss account problems. AIB apologised for writing 
to Ms B in the wrong name and offered her £50 compensation for her inconvenience.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with AIBs response and referred her complaint to our service. She 
included details of two transactions to show they were rejected, one of which stated, Credit 
card not in good standing.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said AIBs records show 
the blocks applied, but not any other rejected transactions or attempted purchases. She said 
AIBs Stronger Customer Authentication has also been adopted by other banks to adhere to 
their regulatory obligations and protect bank accounts. The investigator said AIB could have 
provided a better service to Ms B when she tried to resolve her issue. But she thought the 
compensation of £50 is in line with what we would suggest in these circumstances. 
Ms B disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She understood her card had to be stopped when she couldnt verify a transaction, but 
thought a card on her joint account would allow her to access cash. She said AIB advised 
her shed put a block on the card herself, but this was incorrect as this would have required 
access to online banking which would have prevented it from being blocked for non-use. 
Ms B said phone contact could only be made Monday to Friday during working hours. She 
gave AIB the specific times she could be contacted but was called outside of this time, and 
eventually got this sorted by obtaining permission to take a call during work hours. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B complains about problems with her AIB account, namely blocked transactions, and 
loss of access to online banking and difficulties resolving this with AIBs customer service.
Ive looked carefully at the issues Ms B has raised and the record of communications 
between the parties to see if AIB has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
her account and to see if it has treated her fairly. 
The first difficulty that Ms B faced was when her card was blocked following a transaction. It 
appears that AIB deemed the transaction to be potentially suspicious and blocked it pending 
confirmation from Ms B, however Ms B doesnt appear to have received AIBs text message 
about the transaction and when she didnt respond AIB cancelled her card. I think this was a 
reasonable precaution for the bank to take in the circumstances.
Ms B was frustrated that the card on her joint account was also blocked. And following 
receipt of her new bank card Ms B found a time-sensitive transaction was blocked. It doesnt 
look likely this was due to her blocking the card as AIB suggested, but appears to be 
connected to the security measures AIB was applying to her accounts, which it says followed 
the introduction of its Strong Customer Authentication.   
Ms B understands the reason for security measures to protect accounts from fraud, but says 
the explanations from AIB dont make sense. Banks are required by regulations to take steps 
to protect customers accounts from misuse and some of the most vulnerable accounts are 
those that have become dormant. AIB suspended Ms Bs online access when she hadnt 
used this facility for 90 days. This is set out within the terms and conditions of the account, 
and I think it is a reasonable measure for AIB to take in order to provide protection to its 
customers. 
I note that Ms B s card also failed to work on various occasions, but AIB said it has no 
record of this. Ms B has provided details of two rejected transactions, one of which stated, 
Credit card not in good standing. This standard readout of a transaction failure doesnt 
really help the customer get to the bottom of the problem, which appears to be that the 
contactless function has not been recognised for some transactions. However, AIB has 
acknowledged that Ms B was experiencing difficulty with cards for online purchases. 
AIB has offered to send Ms B a new card. I can see that she is reluctant to accept a new 
card due to all the issues she has experienced, but I think AIBs suggestion acknowledges 
that there has been an issue with the card and may provide the solution. As Ms B will be 
aware, its not uncommon for there to be issues with contactless bank cards and a new card 
provides a means of overcoming problems. 
Ms B found it difficult to communicate with AIB. I agree with the investigator that AIB might 
have been a bit more accessible to Ms B when she tried to make contact to resolve the 
issues with her account. However, I do think it was possible for the issues to be discussed 
and resolved. This would in our experience generally involve the issue of a new bank card 
and until a new card is used and account issues remain, it would be unfair to hold AIB 
responsible for the problems Ms B has raised. For this reason I cant uphold Ms Bs complaint, although I can well understand her 
embarrassment at the failure of her some contactless transactions. I recommend she 
contacts AIB to accept its offer of £50 compensation, which I think is fair for the difficulties 
she experienced in communicating with AIB. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman