DRN-3249733
The complaint
Mr E complains that, in 2016, National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account.  
What happened
Mr E had had a bank account with NatWest since 2000. This didnt have a monthly fee. 
In 2016, the account was converted to a Reward Platinum packaged bank account. This cost 
£18 per month and came with various benefits. These included cashback on household bills 
paid from the account, and on purchases with some retailers; mobile phone insurance; travel 
insurance; and car breakdown cover. 
Mr E says that the bank adviser was very pushy and wouldnt take no for an answer. He 
says he was given wrong information about eligibility for claiming and about discounts; nor 
was he told the full cost. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr E didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no evidence to suggest that NatWest was recommending the account to Mr E, in 
the sense used by the financial industry - it wasnt saying it had assessed his needs and 
that this would fit those needs. Though there are features in the package which are likely 
to have been useful, and some of which Mr E used  so its likely a recommendation 
would have been appropriate anyway. 
But, even so, NatWest did have to give enough information for Mr E to make an informed 
choice. Ive seen some of its literature and correspondence from the time, and I think 
these gave reasonable details of the main features of the package. It would then have 
been up to Mr E to decide if he thought the monthly cost worth the benefits, along with the 
possible convenience of having them all arranged in one place. 
The main point of contention is what the sales adviser said to Mr E, and the way in which 
it was said. The difficulty is that it wouldnt be fair, in a situation like this, to make a person 
or business prove that they didnt do something wrong. And two people may have 
different accounts of the same conversation, and so it wouldnt usually be fair to rely just 
on what one person remembers. And so instead I would need reasonable supporting 
evidence to say NatWest acted wrongly, and overstepped the mark in the way it sold the 
account, in the way Mr E recalls.
I cant see that I would be able to get that evidence. And so my conclusion is that there 
isnt enough evidence to show that NatWest acted wrongly in the sale of this account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman