DRN-3285696
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her and to her husband by the supplier.
Mrs L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2018 Mrs Ls husband, who I will call Mr L, was contacted by a 
representative of a company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the 
system) to be installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and 
Mrs L decided to purchase the system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook. Mr L signed the contract with P, and Mrs L signed the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In December 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Ls behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs L to enter into the contract with P. The CMC did not appear to notice that 
the contracting party had actually been her husband alone.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook treated the claim as having been brought jointly by both Mr and Mrs L. It issued 
a final response and explained that it didnt agree that the system had been misrepresented, 
or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. However it offered Mr and 
Mrs L £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs L and found no reason to uphold the complaint. He did not refer to the fact 
that she had not been the contracting party.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
P had never shown Mrs L the quotation document on which the adjudicator had 
relied, either at the sales meeting or subsequently;
Mrs L had never signed the quotation, and she did not recognize the signature which 
appears on it as her own (this is hardly surprising, since it would have been signed 
by her husband);
being satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Mrs L had not 
thought it necessary to ask for anything in writing;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. If that is correct, then this would mean that Mrs L could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way she could have claimed against P, the supplier  if indeed she has the right to 
bring a claim against P. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because  if it applies  it says that any negotiations 
between Mrs L and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an 
agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Why sections 56 and 75 do not apply in this case
However, I dont think that either section 56 or section 75 applies here. I will explain why.
Where it applies, section 75 gives a consumer the same right to bring a claim against the 
provider of credit (Shawbrook) as she may already have against the supplier of the goods or 
services (P), for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But it does not 
give the consumer the right to bring a claim on behalf of someone else, if she does not have 
a claim in her own right. She has to have her own claim for breach of contract or for 
misrepresentation  which means she has to be a party to the contract with P, as well as 
being a party to the loan agreement.
So to uphold Mrs Ls complaint about Shawbrook not upholding her claim under section 75, 
I would have to find that the following things are all true:
Mrs L had a contract with P;
there has been a breach of that contract by P, or alternatively a misrepresentation by 
P which induced Mrs L to enter into the contract;
that contract was financed with credit provided to Mrs L by Shawbrook.
However, as I have pointed out above, Mrs L was not a party to the contract with P. I accept 
that she may have been involved in the discussions with the salesman, but that is not enough. The contract is in Mr Ls name, and is (or at least appears to be) signed by him, and 
only by him. This means that if there was any misrepresentation made by P, only Mr L would 
have legal standing to bring a claim against P for it  and Mrs L would not. It follows that 
Mrs L cannot bring a claim under section 75 against Shawbrook for anything done by P.
(Mr L cannot bring a claim against Shawbrook under section 75 either, because he was not 
a party to Shawbrooks loan agreement.)
A similar rule applies to section 56 as well. That section would only avail Mrs L if she had 
been a party to the contract for the sale of the solar panels, as well as to the loan 
agreement.
I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Shawbrook liable for something 
someone else did wrong, in the absence of some law making it liable. So for that reason I do 
not uphold this complaint. That reason alone is sufficient reason and I could just stop here, 
but I recognise that to reject a complaint on what might seem to be technical grounds may 
seem unfair, so I will still go on to give other reasons why  if sections 56 and 75 had applied 
 I would still not have upheld this complaint anyway.
(Because I have done that, I do not think it is necessary for me to issue a provisional 
decision before going on to give a final decision. Although the CMC has not had a chance to 
comment about the application of sections 56 and 75, any comments it might have made 
would not have affected the outcome of this complaint, because I would still have made the 
findings I have set out below in the rest of this decision, which are points which were 
covered by the adjudicator.)
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ls recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr L agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr and Mrs L simply 
took the salesmans word for it when he told them that they could buy thousands of pounds 
worth of equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, 
without at any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that 
Mrs L has simply forgotten seeing the quote over the two and a half years between the sale 
and the bringing of her claim, or that it was only shown to her husband. So on the balance of 
probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process 
when Mr L agreed to enter into the contract, and Im satisfied that he signed it.
The quotation includes, at pages 18 to 22, the contract (to which I have referred above).
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.FIT payments
Mrs L has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mrs L has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income her husband could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr L could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £193.50.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr L could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £335.98 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs L, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £798.28. 
This is shown in the first row of a table titled Putting it all together.
Even after 20 years, the total FIT income would be £5,040, which is only about half the cash 
price of the system (£10,347).
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs L entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £123.79. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £123.72, but the difference  7p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for every 
year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money to cover the 
loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr L could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of FIT payments, as well as Mrs Ls expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
I am reinforced in that conclusion by the graph below, which also appears in the quote. It 
clearly shows that throughout the entire loan period, the monthly payments would always 
exceed the expected FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs L that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 7p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr L.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs L were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 10 years for the overall benefits that Mr L could expect 
to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 10-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that by the end of year 13 the overall benefits that Mr L could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement (£14,946).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr L that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 10 years, and for the loan in about 13 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount 
to a misrepresentation (albeit not one for which Shawbrook would be liable).
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr L. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,040 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ls FIT statements and can see that the system, on average, has 
generated 3,216 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2007 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr L hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs L could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr L entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Shawbrook is not liable under the Consumer Credit Act for anything that P is 
alleged to have done, and that it would therefore not be fair and reasonable to require 
Shawbrook to pay compensation for anything P did. Furthermore, I am also satisfied that 
there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr L (let alone Mrs L) to 
enter into the contract for the system. I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs L to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer to them of £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to Mrs Ls claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman