DRN-3665981
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr G are unhappy with the service Mrs W received surrounding restrictions that
TSB Bank plc placed on their joint account.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr G hold a joint current account with TSB. Mrs W also holds an ISA account in
her sole name. In November 2021, Mrs W transferred the balance of her ISA account to the
joint current account with the intention of transferring the money onwards from that account.
However, she found that she was unable to move the money out of the joint current account.
When Mrs W contacted TSB, she was told the account was restricted because TSB had
been informed several weeks previously that Mr G was entering into insolvency. As such, all
transfers out of the account were restricted, and Mrs W was told by TSB that shed need Mr
Gs insolvency practitioner to authorise the transfer of the money deposited from her ISA out
of the joint account. Mrs W and Mr G werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
TSB looked at this complaint. They explained they werent required to have informed Mrs W
when they placed the restriction on the joint account that they did, and they didnt feel that
theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs W in how theyd managed the situation. Mrs W and Mr G
werent satisfied with TSBs response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that TSB had acted
unfairly in how it had managed the situation, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs W and Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 July 2022 as follows:
I feel its reasonable that TSB would have placed restrictions on the joint current 
account given that it had been informed that one of the account holders  Mr G  had 
entered into insolvency.
But TSB were also aware that Mrs W was a joint account holder for the current 
account, and that Mrs W had accounts in her sole name, such as the ISA account. 
And so, while TSB may not have been required to have informed Mrs W of the 
restrictions that they placed on the joint account, I dont feel that they acted fairly 
towards Mrs W by not informing her as such.
This is because by not informing Mrs W that restrictions had been placed on the joint
account they didnt mitigate against what actually transpired here, which was Mrs W
transferred money from her sole ISA account (money that was her money alone) into 
the joint current account, and was then unable to move the money from that account 
because of the restrictions placed on the account that she hadnt been made aware 
of.
In their correspondence with this service, TSB have explained that its expected and
assumed that Mr G would have informed Mrs W of the restrictions that TSB had 
made Mr G aware had been placed on the account. But TSBs assumption here was 
incorrect, and I feel that Mrs W has incurred detriment as a result.
Ultimately, TSB placed a restriction on an account which Mrs W was a joint holder of 
and didnt inform her of that restriction. This led to Mrs W making a transfer to that 
account which Im satisfied she most likely wouldnt have made had she been aware 
of the restriction, and being unable to access the money transferred from her ISA as 
a result.
This doesnt feel fair to me, so my provisional decision here is that Im upholding this
complaint and instructing TSB to pay Mrs W 8% interest on the balance that she 
transferred into and later out of the joint account (having obtained authorisation from 
Mr Gs insolvency practitioner to do so) for the period of time that money was 
unavailable to her  i.e. the date it was transferred into the account to the date it was 
transferred out. Additionally, TSB must also make a compensation payment of £200 
to Mrs W for the trouble and upset that shes incurred here.
TSB have confirmed that they do not agree with my provisional decision as they werent 
permitted to have told Mrs W of the insolvency of Mr G. 
I dont disagree with TSBs position here. But TSB didnt have to tell Mrs W about the 
insolvency of Mr G. Instead, they could have simply informed Mrs W that restrictions had 
been placed on the account, such that any money transferred into the account wouldnt be 
able to be transferred out of the account. This would have given Mrs W the information 
needed to be able to avoid what happened here without any breach of Mr Gs privacy.
Ultimately, I remain satisfied that TSB didnt provide a fair or reasonable service to Mrs W by 
allowing her to transfer her own money into the joint account that TSB had restricted 
because of information received about the other joint named party. And I dont accept that it 
was Mr Gs responsibility, as that other joint named party, to have informed Mrs W of the 
restrictions that TSB had placed on the account. 
And while TSB may point to the terms of the joint account, which state that TSB dont have 
to provide information to both holders of such an account but can only inform one party, it 
can be the case that an application of written terms can result in an unfair outcome in certain 
circumstances  which its my firm belief has been the case in this instance.
All of which means that I find no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint 
in Mrs W and Mr Gs favour on the basis outlined in my provisional decision above. And I 
can confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint accordingly.   
Putting things right
TSB must pay Mrs W 8% simple interest on the balance that she transferred into and later 
out of the joint account for the period of time that money was unavailable to her  i.e. from 
the date it was transferred into the account to the date it was transferred out. TSB must also make a further compensation payment of £200 to Mrs W for the trouble and 
upset that shes incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman