DRN-4386701
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clerical Medical wrote to him on numerous occasions telling him that 
premiums on his with-profits whole of life policy have been missed, that the policy value has 
fallen, and that the policy would be made paid-up.
What happened
Between November 2020 and December 2022 Clerical Medical sent Mr L letters advising 
that hed missed premiums on his whole of life policy. Clerical Medical then wrote to Mr L to 
tell him that the policy would be made paid-up with a sum assured of £6,250. Mr L first 
complained to Clerical Medical about the issues in 2021 and it upheld this complaint. Clerical 
Medical said it had received all the premiums but since an IT system migration it hadnt 
recorded the premiums correctly. Clerical Medical paid Mr L £350 for the delay in dealing 
with the complaint and any distress and inconvenience the matter had caused him. It also 
paid Mr L £12 to cover the cost of a telephone call.
When the problems persisted Mr L complained to Clerical Medical again. Clerical Medical 
also upheld this complaint and in March 2023 offered to pay Mr L a further £400 to recognise 
the overall poor service and its delay in responding to the complaint. Mr L rejected this and 
brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that the offer of a further £400 was a 
fair and reasonable one. Mr L asked than an Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L will be disappointed, but Ive decided that Clerical Medicals offer of 
£400 for the additional distress and inconvenience its poor service caused him is a fair and 
reasonable one in the circumstances of this complaint. I will now explain why.
Clerical Medical accepts that it has got things wrong and that it should not have sent the 
correspondence about missed premiums and the policy being made paid-up. It apologised to 
Mr L for this and provided an explanation why this happened. In its final response in March 
2023 Clerical Medical confirmed that the sum assured on the policy has remined unchanged 
and provided Mr L with the current value of the policy to include any bonuses. So, my 
decision will focus on whether the remedy Clerical Medical offered is a fair and reasonable 
one to reflect the poor service it provided.
The Financial Conduct Authority Handbook defines what types of complaints the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider. Specifically, DISP 2.3.1R says that an Ombudsman can 
consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of 
the regulated or other covered activities, or any ancillary activity carried on by the firm in 
connection with them. I note that Clerical Medical has accepted there was a delay in dealing 
with Mr Ls complaint, but I cant consider the delays in Clerical Medicals complaint handling 
as this isnt a regulated activity. However, I can consider other parts of Mr Ls complaint 
relating to regulated or ancillary services.
Mr L has provided a detailed summary of the events and explained what he wants the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to direct Clerical Medical to do to put matters right and to 
stop using data from its malfunctioning IT system and provide him with credible information 
about the policy. For completeness, although Ive read Mr Ls submissions I will only address 
matters that I consider relevant to this complaint. 
Mr L is frustrated that Clerical Medical continued to send him letters about missed premiums 
and there are ongoing issues with Clerical Medicals IT system. Mr Ls communications with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service and Clerical Medical make it clear that this has caused 
him a great deal of upset and inconvenience. Its clear to me that this has impacted Mr Ls 
confidence in Clerical Medicals ability to provide him with accurate and credible information 
about his policy. However, I cant tell Clerical Medical how it should run its IT system, direct 
it to replace the IT system or tell it to get it fixed by a certain date. This is because its the 
Financial Conduct Authority that regulates the way in which Clerical Medical runs its 
business and services. The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider whether Clerical 
Medical has treated Mr L unfairly, and if it has, it can ask the business to put things right 
and/or pay a remedy for any distress or inconvenience it has caused. 
It's understandable Mr L lacks confidence in Clerical Medicals IT system, but Ive seen that 
Clerical Medical addressed this in its final response letter in March 2023. In this letter, 
Clerical Medical provided written confirmation to Mr L that the premiums were up to date, 
that no penalties to the policy had incurred and that the basic sum assured on the policy had 
not changed since the policy started. Clerical Medical also confirmed the up-to-date policy 
valuation after bonuses. Taking into account that both Mr L and Clerical Medical understand 
there are issues with the IT system, Im persuaded it was reasonable that Clerical Medical 
provided these written assurances. Since the final response letter, Clerical Medical has also 
provided screen shots to our Investigator that show Mr L hasnt missed any premiums and 
show the current value of the policy including bonuses. Our Investigator forwarded these to 
Mr L. Although Mr L has doubts about the validity of these screenshots, Im persuaded that 
they support the policy premiums are up to date and the sum assured and the value of the 
policy have been unaffected.
Clerical Medical accepts its been having problems with its IT system  which for the reasons 
Ive highlighted above I wont be able to address in my decision - but Im persuaded theres 
been no adverse impact on the benefits of Mr L policy. However, Im satisfied that Clerical 
Medicals communications about the policy have impacted Mr Ls day-to-day life and caused 
him some upset. So, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that Clerical 
Medicals offer to pay Mr L £400 to recognise the significant distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused him over many months is a fair and reasonable one.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical has already made an offer to pay £400 
to settle the complaint and I consider this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical should pay Mr L 
£400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2024.
 Paul Lawton
Ombudsman