DRN-3828770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Covea Insurance Plc unfairly declined their claim for loss of rent. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim for subsidence against their Covea property owners 
insurance policy. A cash settlement was paid for the repairs. Mr and Mrs R also claimed for 
loss of rent whilst the repairs took place. Covea declined that part of the claim.
In response to a complaint, Covea said it had made the correct decision. It said Mr and Mrs 
R had chosen to make the property uninhabitable by installing a new kitchen and a bathroom 
 work that was unrelated to the subsidence claim.
Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied so came to this service. They want Covea to pay six weeks 
loss of rent. Our investigator wasnt persuaded the property was uninhabitable during 
reinstatement works. So he felt Coveas decision to decline the loss of rent claim was fair. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy covers loss of rent if the property suffers damage that results in a 
portion of the building being uninhabitable. Uninhabitable isnt defined by the policy. But I 
would usually consider, for a property to be so, for there to be no useable kitchen, bathroom 
or toilet  or for it to be unsafe to be lived in. But damage that makes a property unattractive 
to tenants doesnt necessarily make it uninhabitable. 
Ive considered Mr Rs comments about the property being uninhabitable  and the tenants 
moving out because of repairs. Ive also considered photos of the kitchen and bathroom 
before repairs. 
I can see some cracks required plastering. I accept both rooms might be unusable by the 
tenants whilst contractors were physically working on plaster repairs. That inconvenience 
might make the property unattractive to the tenants. But Im not persuaded those repairs 
would be so intensive or involved that either room would be unusable outside of the hours 
they were being worked on. The invoice for these repairs is for a fairly low amount. Again 
that doesnt support Mr and Mrs Rs position that the work involved was so intrusive or 
significant that the property couldnt reasonably be inhabited.  
I accept the bathroom and kitchen may, in practice, have been unusable by tenants for a 
period. But that will mostly likely have been because of the replacement of the kitchen units 
and bathroom fittings, rather than the subsidence related repairs. As Covea points out, Mr 
and Mrs R opted for those refurbishment works. They werent required because of the 
subsidence. 
Overall Im not persuaded the property was uninhabitable because of the claim related 
works. That means I cant say Coveas decision to decline the loss of rent claim was unfair 
or unreasonable. So Im not going to require it to pay any loss of rent or do anything 
differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman