DRN-4497886
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint is about a claim she made on her U K Insurance Limited trading as
Direct Line (UKI) pet insurance policy for vets fees for a condition her pet suffered from
following dental treatment.
UKI declined to pay Miss G anything.
Miss G says this is unfair and that she has suffered financial hardship as a result of the
position UKI have taken.
What happened
Miss G made a claim on her UKI pet insurance policy for vets fees for a condition her pet
suffered from following dental treatment.
UKI declined to pay Miss G anything. They said that the condition that Miss Gs pet had
been treated for most likely arose out of the earlier dental treatment and as such formed part
of the dental claim. The policy limit for dental claims had been reached so UKI said they
werent able to pay her anything more.
Miss G said this was unfair and supplied evidence from her vet to say that it couldnt be said
with any certainty what the cause of the condition was that she was claiming for, so she felt it
was unfair to treat the condition as part of the dental claim. UKI didnt agree so she referred
the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Miss Gs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said
there wasnt conclusive evidence to show the condition and treatment Miss G was claiming
for was as a result of the dental treatment, so it wasnt fair for UKI to take the position they
had. The investigator directed UKI to assess Miss Gs claim in line with the remaining policy
terms and pay her £100 in respect of the trouble and upset caused to her.
UKI didnt agree. They relied on their own vets evidence to say the condition was very likely 
to have been caused by the previous dental treatment and as such their decision was fair.
Because of this Miss Gs complaint was passed to me to determine.
In November 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Miss Gs complaint but for different reasons to those reached by
the investigator.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
Vet fees Essential Advanced
Per condition Up to £4,000 Up to £8,000
Dental illness Not covered Up to £1,000
(included in the overall vet fee limit)
Miss G had an advanced policy, so the cover afforded for Dental illness was up to a limit of
£1,000. The condition Miss G was claiming for was pyothorax which is described as the
presence of inflammatory fluid or pus within the chest cavity, which is the area between the
lungs and the inner walls of the ribs.
Ive seen a wealth of submissions from UKI and their own vet which they say support that
pyothorax was very likely to have been caused the earlier dental treatment Miss Gs pet
underwent a month before. Conversely Miss Gs own vet says its impossible to determine
the cause of the pyothorax and that the underlying cause is often unknown. But I dont think
that matters in this case. Thats because Im not persuaded that the claim Miss G was
making was for dental illness at all at this point; rather it was a separate condition entirely.
Dental illness is not defined by the policy, so I have applied the ordinary meaning- an illness
that relates to the pets teeth. The condition Miss G was claiming for might well have been
caused by the earlier dental treatment, but that doesnt mean that its a dental illness. Rather
it relates to the pets chest which caused it to become very unwell generally. As such I cant
say that its fair for UKI to treat the condition as a dental illness at all.
Ive seen submissions from UKI that both Miss G and her vet made the claim following on
from the dental treatment and so their understanding was that it formed part of that claim. I
dont think it matters how the claim was framed or what Miss Gs or her vets understanding
was about the section of cover it fell in to. It was up to UKI to fairly assess the claim under
the policy terms and determine the section of the policy it should be paid out under. What
Miss G or her vet might have thought applied has no bearing on that. And for the reasons
Ive set out above I dont think UKI applied the policy terms fairly in this case.
Miss G has made some detailed submissions about the impact of having to bear her vets
fees herself. She says she paid for them on her credit card and that shes now in debt and
having to pay interest as a result, each month. Shes also talked about the stress and worry
of how she will pay the debt off and whether she should go back to work, despite being
retired. In addition, shes expressed worries about how shell afford Christmas this year. I
understand this would have been very concerning for Miss G particularly in her
circumstances and given she has no working income currently. Ive set out what I think UKI
should do to put things right below, which I think adequately compensates Miss G for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
UKI should pay:
Miss Gs claim in accordance with the £8,000 policy limit subject to any applicable policy
excesses.
Any credit card interest Miss G has incurred as a result of being unable to pay off the
vets fees by her statement date, from the date she incurred them, until the balance of
the claim is paid. Miss G will need to supply UKI with evidence of the interest she has
incurred in respect of this.
If Miss G is unable to supply evidence of the credit card interest shes incurred, UKI
should pay her interest at 8% per year simple in the alternative, from one month after
Miss G made her claim, until the claim is paid.
£150 to Miss G for the trouble and upset caused.
I asked both parties to provide me with any more comments and evidence in response to my provisional findings. Miss G has accepted my provisional decision, but UKI did not. In 
summary theyve said:
That the most likely cause of the illness Miss Gs pet was being treated for was the 
dental procedure one month before based on the medical history provided to them.
Whilst Miss Gs vet cant place a definitive cause on the condition, their vet has 
determined the most likely cause and thats the dental procedure.
The policy terms say:
Please refer to Whats not covered under the Vet fee section:
> If two or more claims are first believed to be separate conditions but are later 
recognised to be a recurring condition, bilateral condition, lump or related condition, well 
add up the amounts weve paid for all these claims and not make any more payments 
during the life of your pet once weve paid up to the limits described.
This is regardless of whether your vet agrees these have the same cause or are linked.
Where the condition is a bilateral condition or lump, this will always be considered as 
one
They consider the condition claimed for is related to the dental procedure and therefore 
the £1,000 limit applicable to dental cover was correctly applied.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld for the same 
reasons set out within my provisional findings. I say so because theres nothing in UKIs 
response that persuades me that the policy terms should be applied in any other way than 
Ive directed. Ive explained why below.
UKIs position is that the condition being claimed for was caused by the earlier dental 
procedure Miss Gs pet had a month before and which UKI paid out a claim on. I accepted in 
my provisional findings that the earlier procedure could well have been the cause of the 
condition being claimed for, but I didnt think this made a difference to how the claim should 
be considered because one was for dental illness and the other was for an entirely different 
condition, namely something that related to the pets chest which caused it to become very 
unwell generally.
In response to my provisional findings UKI have said theyre relying on a policy exclusion 
that essentially says if two or more claims are first believed to be separate conditions but are 
later recognised to be related conditions, theyll add up the amounts theyve paid for all these 
claims and not make any more payments during the life of the pet once theyve paid up to 
the limits described.
So, the question for me to determine is whether I consider the condition being claimed for to 
be related to the earlier dental procedure. As Ive said, the dental procedure could have 
been the cause of the condition being claimed for but that doesnt necessarily mean we 
would consider the conditions to be related. There is no policy definition of related so Ive 
considered the dictionary meaning which is belonging to the same family, group, or type; 
connected. Ive seen no persuasive evidence at all to suggest the conditions belong to the 
same family, group or type- one is a dental problem and the other is a chest condition.  Ive 
also applied our general approach to whether we would consider the conditions to be related 
in the absence of a policy definition. In order to reach the conclusion that the conditions were 
related, I would need to be satisfied that they had the same underlying cause. The cause of 
the dental procedure is not the same as the cause of the chest condition. UKI have made 
clear that they consider the cause of the chest condition to be the dental procedure itself and the absence of antibiotics being administered during that process. They have not said that 
the dental condition requiring the dental procedure was the cause. And Ive seen no 
evidence to support that. In light of that, I cant agree that the two conditions are connected 
and therefore I dont agree that the policy exclusion UKI have referred to applies here.
Because of that and for the reasons set out within my provisional findings, I uphold Miss Gs 
complaint and direct UKI to put things right as Ive set out below.
In response to my provisional findings Miss G said she did enquire about having the interest 
assessed on her credit card repayments by her credit card provider, but they said they 
couldnt do this for her. I dont think thats necessary in this case. If she provides a copy of 
her credit card statement to UKI from the date she paid the vets fees until the date shes 
reimbursed, then UKI should be able to calculate the interest applicable to that amount and 
pay her accordingly if she wants them to. 
Putting things right
UKI should pay:
Miss Gs claim in accordance with the £8,000 policy limit subject to any applicable policy
excesses.
Any credit card interest Miss G has incurred as a result of being unable to pay off the
vets fees by her statement date, from the date she incurred them, until the balance of
the claim is paid. Miss G will need to supply UKI with evidence of the interest she has
incurred in respect of this.
If Miss G is unable to supply evidence of the credit card interest shes incurred, UKI
should pay her interest at 8% per year simple in the alternative, from one month after
Miss G made her claim, until the claim is paid.
£150 to Miss G for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line, and direct them to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman