DRN-3205985
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to recover funds sent from his 
account.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr V discovered a transaction of £744 had been made from his account to a 
third party he didnt recognise, so he contacted Barclays. The transaction had been made at 
2am by faster payments, but Mr V said he was asleep at this time. 
He says he logged into his account around midnight to see if hed been paid, which he had. 
And he logged in again the following morning with the intention of paying some bills, which is 
when he found his money was gone. He contacted Barclays immediately.
Barclays says the transfer was made from Mr Vs phone which was logged into his account. 
It also found that the third party was an existing payee and Mr V had made a payment to 
them a year prior for £50 with a reference of TV.
Mr V has confirmed that he uses thumb print ID to log into his account and he lives alone. 
He doesnt recall making the payment and as he was asleep at the time, he doesnt believe 
he couldve done it accidentally especially given the number of steps needed to complete an 
online transaction. 
Barclays contacted the third partys bank in an attempt to recover the money. But this was 
unsuccessful. Mr V is unhappy as he says its unfair that hes left out of pocket because the 
third party isnt returning the money. 
He says Barclays shouldve done more to prevent this happening in the first place  like 
removing dormant payees. And it should do more to get the money back  especially as he 
notified it immediately and within a few hours of the transaction being made. In addition, he 
says he was given the impression the money would be recovered and feels hes been 
misled.
Mr V brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She was 
satisfied Barclays had done all it could to recover the money. And that it had been clear 
there was no guarantee it would be able to do so. So she didnt think it needed to do 
anything to resolve the complaint. 
But Mr V didnt agree. He said the transaction couldve been made as a result of a scam, 
and its not fair hes left without his money. So the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was this an authorised transaction?
The first question I need to decide is whether or not, on the balance of probabilities, Mr V 
authorised this transaction. 
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr V liable for the payment if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made it or authorised it. 
The question of authorisation is made up of two parts; authentication and consent. 
Im satisfied that this payment was authenticated, as Barclays has shown that Mr V was 
logged into his account on his phone when the payment was made. 
The question of whether Mr V consented to the transaction is harder one to answer, as Mr V 
says he had no knowledge of the payment being made and he was asleep at the time. So 
Ive had to consider, on balance, what most likely happened. 
Whilst I dont disbelieve what Mr V has told us, I think its more likely than not that he 
consented to this transaction. I say this because there isnt any other plausible explanation. 
No one else had access to his phone at the time of the transaction and it was made from his 
phone.
Mr V says he couldve been the victim of a scam, but I think its highly unlikely that a 
scammer would transfer money to one of Mr Vs existing payees, as normally the money 
would be sent to an account that the scammer could access. And Im not persuaded that the 
scammer was someone Mr V purchased a TV from over a year ago.
From the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr V consented to this transaction. 
He may have intended to transfer money to an existing payee and selected the third party by 
accident. 
Ive thought about Mr Vs comment that Barclays couldve done more to prevent this 
transaction, for example by deleting existing payees that havent been used for a period of 
time. But I cant agree that its Barclays role to manage their customers accounts. And Im 
mindful that many people will have payees that they transfer funds to on a yearly basis, so I 
dont think its for Barclays to decide which payees are dormant and no longer needed.
Did Barclays do enough to recover the funds?
As this transaction was sent by the faster payments method, it wouldve been credited to 
the third partys account almost instantly. The faster payments rules also say faster 
payments, once sent, cannot be cancelled. So even though Mr V called Barclays straight 
away when he realised a payment had been made, it couldnt have stopped the payment.
In these circumstances, its our role to ensure that Barclays did what was required of them to 
try to get the money back.
Here we look to the Payment Services Regulations - which say that a bank should take
"reasonable steps" to recover funds that have been mistakenly applied to an account. And
there are industry standards for recalling faster payments which are:
Bank and building societies in the UK that offer faster payments follow procedures known
as the credit payment recovery process, that set out the help they must offer customers
that have accidentally made a mistake when sending a payment. These say:When you notify your bank or building society that you have made an electronic 
payment to the wrong account, your bank will commence action on your behalf within 
a maximum of two working days.
Where your bank finds clear evidence of a genuine mistake, they will contact the 
receiving bank on your behalf with a request to prevent the money being mistakenly 
spent. As long as the recipient does not dispute your claim, you will subsequently 
receive a refund of the protected funds within 20 working days from when you 
notified your bank.
In cases where the circumstances of the claim are not clear cut, your bank will still 
contact the receiving bank on your behalf. The recipient will be contacted by their 
bank to ask for consent to debit their account. No funds would be removed without 
the consent of the receiving customer.
If it is not possible to reclaim a payment you have sent in error  for instance if the 
recipient disputes its return  you will be notified of the outcome within 20 working 
days from the point of your enquiry and in many cases much sooner.
If funds cannot be recovered through the standard central process your bank will give 
you clear and accurate information on the options you have available  such as court 
action against the recipient.
The industry procedures do not change the legal rights and responsibilities of you, 
your bank or the recipient of the funds. Anyone that intentionally spends money that 
does not belong to them is committing a crime, which can be reported to the police. 
Ive looked at what Barclays did  and Im satisfied it followed these guidelines. It 
commenced action within two working days of being notified of the transaction. And as the 
circumstances of the claim werent clear cut, it followed the process from bullet point three 
above and contacted the receiving bank. 
Unfortunately, the receiving bank was unable to get the consent of the third party, so the 
money hasnt been returned. I appreciate how upsetting this will be for Mr V, as it wasnt a 
small sum of money. But I cant hold Barclays responsible for this  as the actions of the 
receiving bank and the recipient of the funds were outside its control.
I understand Mr V feels its unfair that the third party has been allowed to keep his money. 
And he says Barclays should be able to take it back without consent. But Barclays has been 
unable to classify this transaction as a genuine mistake as required by the rules above, so 
its followed the process for cases where its not clear what happened. And in these 
circumstances, it needs consent from the third party to get the money back.
As Barclays followed the industry process based on the information Mr V gave it and didnt 
make an error in trying to resolve what happened, I cant fairly say Barclays has done 
anything wrong or unfair. I know this will be disappointing for Mr V, but on that basis, in all 
fairness, I cant ask Barclays to do anymore here.
Was Mr V misled? 
Ive been provided with the recordings and transcripts of Mr Vs calls with Barclays. Having 
reviewed them all, I cant find anything to show me that Mr V was misled about the outcome 
of his claim. 
Im satisfied the Barclays advisors who spoke to Mr V were clear that theyd do all they 
could to recover the money but that they could make no guarantees. I appreciate Mr V feels 
that he was given false hope, but I cant agree that this was due to anything he was told by 
Barclays.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman