DRN-3901440
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Sabre Insurance Company Limited handled his Subject Access 
Request (SAR) following a claim on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr H had a commercial vehicle insurance policy to cover his van. In September 2021 he had 
reason to make a claim.
During the claim Mr H made a SAR which Sabre processed. However Mr H wasnt happy 
with the way his request had been handled. He said initially Sabre had asked him for 
documents in order for it to verify his identity however later confirmed that these would not 
be necessary. He also said the SAR arrived outside of the required time frame and there 
was missing information. He made a complaint to Sabre but it didnt uphold it, so he brought 
it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld so Mr H asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr H to be asked for identification in order to 
complete the SAR, especially when it was later confirmed that the request could be 
processed without. However after Mr H questioned this Sabre confirmed it could process the 
SAR without the information. And this was processed within a couple of weeks of Mr H 
questioning it. So while I appreciate it may have been frustrating, Mr H was still able to 
receive the SAR with a minimal delay. Sabre has apologised for the short delay it caused 
due to the initial request and I think thats enough in the circumstances. 
Sabre also provided the SAR one day after the required deadline. And while I understand Mr 
H was expecting it a day earlier, I cant see that the delay has caused him any significant 
distress or inconvenience. So I dont think Sabre need to do anything to put things right. 
I also note Mr H has concerns that the SAR didnt contain all the information it should have 
done. It isnt within the remit of this service to decide whether Sabre has met the 
requirements of a SAR. If Mr H has any concerns about how Sabre handled his SAR under 
the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and whether it met the requirements laid 
out in this it should contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given. I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman