DRN-3995692
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) were unfair in their 
rejection of his property insurance claim. Reference to Mr R includes his representative.
What happened
Mr R had a property which he rented out to a tenant shortly after the first Covid lockdown in 
March 2020. Unfortunately, Mr Rs property was turned into a cannabis farm which resulted 
in him making a claim for his associated losses  damage and loss of rent. The identification 
of these losses came about, and was reported, around July 2022.
RSA rejected Mr Rs claim on the basis of a policy clause which said a property inspection 
was required every three months. RSA said it hadnt been inspected as required and so that 
was material to the loss. They believe regular inspections serve as a deterrent to such illegal 
activity.
Mr R said this was unfair. He explained that inspections were hampered by Covid lockdown 
restrictions and that he felt it was likely the cannabis farm had been set up straight away. His 
argument being that, even if an inspection had been carried out every three months, the loss 
would have been incurred anyway.
Mr R also cited a decision made by another Ombudsman. He said the circumstances in that 
case were similar to his and that wed required a business to settle the claim in that one.
An investigator here looked into the matter, they said RSA had treated Mr R fairly. They 
explained that there was no evidence to suggest the cannabis farm had been set up straight 
away. And while they acknowledged the difficulties caused by Covid lockdowns, they felt 
video calls could have been used as an alternative to in-person inspections.
They also agreed that there was no evidence the cannabis farm had been set up 
immediately, especially as the property wasnt inspected until over a year after it had been 
rented out.
Mr R disagreed, largely citing the same arguments he had before. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Im in agreement with our investigator, Ill explain why.
First of all, it is helpful for me to say that each case brought to our service is considered on 
its individual circumstances. So, while I appreciate there may have been a similar case to 
this one which was upheld  I am required to reach my decision on what I have seen in this 
case.
For Mr Rs policy to cover a claim such as this, there is a requirement for the property to be 
inspected every three months. This isnt unreasonable. And the reason for it is because, in 
the first instance, inspections serve as a deterrent. But they can also highlight losses which 
might have only just started, and therefore will cost less to put right.
From what Ive seen, Mr Rs property wasnt inspected until over a year after it had been 
rented out, and the losses werent discovered until over two years later. I fully appreciate that 
Covid lockdowns would have made in-person inspections difficult, and businesses have 
been expected to be mindful of this when assessing claims too.
But, in this instance, because there was a very long gap between the letting and the 
discovery of losses, there is a significant window during which the cannabis farm could have 
been set up. I dont agree that it can be said the lack of inspections is immaterial to the loss.
Ill accept its possible it couldve been set up straight away (or in the first three months) but 
that could be seen as unlikely given that lockdown restrictions could have hampered such 
activity too. 
And inspections could have been made earlier than they were, during the periods when 
restrictions were lessened. Overall, and without evidence to show when the cannabis farm 
was likely set up, I dont think RSA has been unfair in saying the breach of a policy condition 
can be relied upon in this particular claim.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman