DRN-3845397
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his bank account and wrongly placed a 
fraud marker against his name causing serious repercussions for him.   
What happened
Mr M had several accounts with Barclays.
In July 2021, Mr M started to talk to someone on a dating website. I will refer to this 
individual as B in this decision.
Mr M has explained that he believed he was talking to a real, genuine person, who wanted to 
pursue a relationship with him. Sadly, Mr M was in fact talking to a scammer.
Mr M has explained that after contacting B on the website he began exchanging daily 
messages via a social messaging site with them. Mr M never met B in person. In early July 
2021 B told Mr M that shed been the victim of a robbery whilst overseas and had her 
handbag stolen containing all her bank cards. B told Mr M that she needed financial help to 
support her and her young child. B persuaded Mr M to obtain an overseas payment travel 
card which he loaded with £50 and sent to her. 
Following this B told Mr M that she wasnt able to receive payments for work she was doing 
because of the theft and asked Mr M to receive payments into his Barclays account and then 
transfer them onto the payment travel card. So that she could support herself and child. Over 
the following weeks several payments were made into Mr Ms account for various amounts, 
which Mr M duly sent onto the travel card. Each payment was simply referenced with 
someones name. These payments were from individuals who had fallen victim to a scam 
which had been orchestrated by B who believed they were paying for a holiday at a caravan 
park in the UK. 
Barclays were contacted by other banks to say that a number of the payments made into Mr 
Ms account were fraudulent. And that their customers, had been the victim of a scam. 
Following these notifications Barclays blocked Mr Ms account whilst it looked into the 
concerns raised by the other banks and how Mr M was operating his account. 
Mr M contacted Barclays and explained why hed been receiving the payments into his 
account. he said he had no idea anything was wrong with the money coming into his 
account. To support his explanation Mr M gave Barclays copies of all the conversations hed 
had with B via the social messaging site to show that hed been the victim of a romance 
scam. Barclays reviewed the information and decided to close Mr Ms account immediately. 
It also decided to record a fraud maker against Mr Ms name with CIFAS, the UKs Credit 
Industry Fraud Avoidance system. 
Mr M complained to Barclays. He said that Barclays shouldnt have placed a fraud marker 
against him and that hed explained to the bank at the time that hed been the victim of a 
cruel scam. In response, Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong when it placed the 
marker against Mr M. And had closed his account in line with the terms and conditions.
Unhappy with this response Mr M brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Before reaching her view, she asked Mr M for 
more information about the circumstances that led to the marker being applied. Mr M 
provided evidence of a tracking receipt showing hed sent the payment travel card to B 
overseas. In addition, Mr M gave the investigator evidence that showed B had used his 
name and placed an advert on a popular social media site for a holiday rental at a caravan 
site, which resulted in the fraudulent payments crediting his account. Mr M also provided 
messages he exchanged with one of the holiday victims which demonstrated he had been 
unaware of Bs activities. 
The investigator sent the information to Barclays. Following this Barclays agreed to remove 
the CIFAS marker it had recorded against Mr M. 
The investigator reviewed all the information and concluded that Barclays should have done 
more investigation before it placed the marker against Mr Ms name. She recommended 
Barclays pay Mr M £400 compensation for the trouble and upset the marker had caused 
him. 
Barclays agreed. Mr M didnt. He said the amount of compensation offered doesnt 
adequately reflect the amount of stress, upset and inconvenience he had suffered as a result 
of Barclays placing a fraud marker against his name. He explained that he hadnt been able 
to open another bank account easily and had eventually managed to open an account that 
didnt offer as much as the one he had with Barclays. He also said he hadnt been able to 
receive his wages and had to be paid in cash by his employer because of the lack of a bank 
account. 
Mr M also said that he had trouble obtaining credit and had to cancel a life insurance policy 
hed had for a number of years and his car insurance as he wasnt able to set up a direct 
debit. And payments werent able to be taken due his account being closed. Mr M said he 
hadnt been able to obtain a cheaper credit card or move out of home all because of the 
marker being applied. And that he even had to resort to having his boss pay his mobile 
phone bill each month because he couldnt set up a direct debit on the account, he was 
eventually able to open  which was a basic bank account. Mr M says all this was very 
embarrassing for him.
Mr M said that his mental health had been badly impacted. He suffered anxiety, depression 
and became very withdrawn. Mr M feels this was as a direct result of the marker being 
applied and the appalling way in which he says the bank treated him.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
block and closure of Mr Ms account
Barclays restricted Mr Ms account whilst it looked into the concerns expressed to it by the 
other banks about the payments hed received into his account in July 2021. Having looked 
at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Barclays to 
have blocked Mr Ms account. Fraud is a serious matter, and one way banks can help to 
tackle fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent payments are received into them. Thats in line with what most banks would do in the same situation. 
And it enabled Barclays to consider how best to react to the report it had received from the 
other banks.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account also permit Barclays to block an account and 
ask Mr M to provide information about payments made into it. So, whilst I accept this caused 
Mr M inconvenience, I cant say Barclays treated him unfairly when it blocked his account
As the investigator has already explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. As long as they reach their 
decisions about that in a legitimate manner. It seems Mr M understands and accepts this 
point. 
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly in closing Mr Ms account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Barclays closed Mr Ms 
account without notice. For Barclays to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the account as its already done. 
Cifas marker
The CIFAS database used by the financial services industry is an important safeguard 
against fraud. Where a company suspects fraud its not unreasonable for it to share that 
information with other firms to prevent further fraud.
The marker that Barclays recorded against Mr M is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  in this case using an account to receive fraudulent funds. But there are 
significant consequences for individuals if markers are wrongly recorded against them. So 
CIFAS requires that its members only make a record where there is clear relevant and 
rigorous evidence of fraud that could be reported to the police or other authorities (whether 
or not a report has actually been made). CIFAS principles also say that the business must 
have carried out checks of a sufficient depth meet the burden of proof set by CIFAS. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ms account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
Barclays says it loaded the marker because it had received several scam reports relating to 
funds Mr M had received, which hed then spent. Ive not seen any evidence that Barclays 
made any further enquiries with Mr M about B and the possibility that hed been an unwitting 
beneficiary of fraudulent payments. I think this would have been a reasonable course of 
action for them to take. Especially given Mr M consistently told Barclays that hed been the 
victim of a romance scam. And he had other evidence which he could have provided  which 
he ended up sending to our investigator.I think its likely if it had done so it wouldve been able to verify Mr Ms story and the 
evidence, he would have been able to provide, wouldve established he hadnt been 
deliberately complicit in fraud. All in all, Im not satisfied that Barclays carried out sufficient 
checks to satisfy the burden of proof required to apply the marker. So, whilst I can 
understand the banks concerns, Im not satisfied that Mr M was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving fraudulent funds. And I dont believe placing a marker against Mr M was 
proportionate based on what happened.
After our investigator contacted Barclays and told it about the enquiries, shed made with 
Mr M Im pleased to see Barclays agreed to remove the marker. It did this in November 
2021. So, the marker was in place for around four months.
Mr M has written comprehensively about the impact of the CIFAS marker being recorded 
against his name had on him. And Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for 
him. Mr M says he should receive compensation in the thousands. And £400 isnt enough. 
I know Mr M feels strongly about his complaint. But there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact 
Barclays actions had on Mr M and decide within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr M has told us that because of the marker he wasnt able to open bank accounts and that 
he had several applications for credit refused. Hes also told us about how his health was 
impacted. I appreciate that Mr M strongly feels that he wasnt able to obtain credit, including 
a credit card that had a more favourable interest rate, and new mobile phone contract due to 
the marker being in place. But hes not been able to provide any evidence of this. So, Ive 
not considered this further. 
From what Mr Ms said to us I dont doubt that the marker recorded by Barclays has 
impacted on him. Its caused him a good deal of trouble, worry, and upset. And the bank 
should pay compensation to him for not meeting the industry standards when applying the 
CIFAS marker. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that £400 is fair and reasonable 
compensation to pay in reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr M. So, whilst I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed,  I wont be asking the bank to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Barclays UK Bank PLC should pay 
Mr M £400  compensation for the trouble and upset caused by wrongly applying a CIFAS 
marker against his name.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman