DRN-1755444
The complaint
  Mr O has complained about the actions of Greenlight Credit Limited (trading as Varooma) 
when he missed payments under a log book loan agreement. He says Varooma didnt treat 
him fairly after he informed it that he was struggling with the repayments. He also doesnt 
agree with how much Varooma has said he needs to repay back to settle the loan. 
What happened
  Mr O took one log book loan with Varooma on 10 November 2017 for £500. This was to 
be repaid over 12 monthly instalments of £87.50 with £550 being paid in interest. The total 
amount Mr O would need to repay would be £1050.
A log book loan was granted on the basis that Mr O provided Varooma with a bill of sale for 
his car. This meant that if Mr O didnt make his loan repayments, Varooma could potentially 
recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.  
Mr O was due to make his monthly repayments on the 10th of each month, starting with his 
first repayment of £87.50 on 10 December 2017. Mr O made five payments but none on the 
repayment days agreed. Mr O didnt make another payment and Varooma started to add 
additional interest and charges from June 2018. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended that Ms Os complaint be 
upheld. He issued his view on 13 April 2020. In it he said that Mr O was making late 
payments straight away starting with his first payment and this continued. He said this could 
have been an indication that Mr O was struggling to meet his repayments. But, he 
concludes, there didnt appear to be any indication from Mr O that he was in financial 
difficulty before August 2018. 
Our investigator goes on to say that once Mr O informed Varooma that he was out of work in 
August 2018, that it didnt treat him fairly or sympathetically. It continued to apply additional 
interest and charges and should have taken more positive action rather than simply 
terminate the loan when it found out Mr O was no longer employed. The investigator 
concluded that it should have considered suspending any further interest or charges in 
addition to arranging a suitable repayment plan with Mr O.
Our investigator then said to put things right interest and charges from August 2018 onwards 
should be removed from Mr Os account. It should also remove the repossession fee as it 
didnt take place.
Varooma responded to our investigators view and offered to remove all additional interest 
charges from July 2018 as well as the repossession charge. It calculated that Mr O had an 
outstanding balance of £1009.48 to pay after it did this and made this offer to him.
Mr O responded to this and turned down Varoomas offer. He said this was because he was 
still being charged additional interest and charges. He said his balance was over £500 at the 
end of May 2018 and doesnt think he should be charged around £400 in additional interest 
and charges.
Mr O asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time of the events in question. The 
rules and guidance relevant to this type of credit agreement are set out in its Consumer 
Credit handbook, CONC. For ease of reference, Ive highlighted some of these below.
CONC 7.3.4R states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. And 7.3.5G explains that examples of forbearance could 
include deferment of payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time in order to allow a customer to recover. 
CONC 7.3.6G states that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm 
should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
CONC 7.3.14R states that a firm must not take disproportionate action against a customer in
arrears or default.
What this means for Mr Os case is that Varooma needed to take a proportionate and 
considered approach to his arrears and repayment difficulties. It needed to give him the 
opportunity to repay the arrears, which might mean deferring payment or accepting token 
payments for a time. And it needed to communicate what was happening with regard to 
setting up a repayment plan. The overarching requirement as set out in the FCAs principles 
for business is that Varooma needed to pay due regard to Mr Os interests and treat him 
fairly.
I have looked at what has been provided by both parties and this is what I understand has 
happened: 
Mr O took out a £500 log book loan with Varooma. He made five payments towards 
repaying this loan but on each occasion, he made these payments later than the 
agreed repayment date. Because of this, Varooma added additional interest and 
charges, so Mr O paid a bit more than his contractual payment each time. He paid 
£89.98 on 16 December 2017, £91.67 on 19 January 2018, £92.00 on 22 February 
2018 and £95.31 on 30 March 2018. He then missed a repayment in April 2018 and 
made his last payment on the account on 15 May 2018 of £100.00. He had made 
total repayments of £468.96. 
In June 2018, Mr O would have been due to make his seventh instalment payment, 
but this didnt happen. The account status was at this point recorded by Varooma as 
broken down. From this point it started adding additional interest and also a charge 
of £72.80 that it has since told our service was for internal charges. In July 2018 it 
added a charge of £475.00 that it says was a repossession fee. 
Varooma has continued to add additional interest and in total according to its most 
recent statement of account on 17 February 2021, it has put on an additional 
£1456.06 in interest along with £558.50 in charges. The account statement shows there is still an outstanding balance of £2595.60 although this is most likely now 
higher as it doesnt seem to have put a pause of charging additional interest. This 
total is made up of an amount outstanding from the original loan agreement 
(£581.04), the additional interest it put on (£1456.06) and its charges (£558.50).
Varooma has shown our service some correspondence that it had with Mr O, where 
either it was chasing him for payment, or he was notifying them of late payments he 
was making. One of these emails was on 24 March 2018, where Varooma says your 
arrears payment set to collect today has been declined by your bank. Please contact 
us immediately to resolve this. If no payment has been made on the account by 
midnight today, we apply a £15 charge to the account. Mr O responds to this email 
on the same day to say he doesnt have enough funds to make the payment and 
offers to pay at a later date.
Mr O contacts Varooma on 19 June 2018 to advise he would make his next payment 
on 29 June 2018. Mr O says in his email Dear customer team thank for notifying me 
of my outstanding balance. I can assure you that the total payment will be made on 
the 29/06/2018 and subsequent payment and schedule on 10/07/2018. But didnt pay 
on either date. He also contacted Varooma on 02 July 2018 to say he would make a 
payment on 27th July but also didnt do this. 
On 1 August 2018, Mr O sends Varooma an email to say he is not in a good position 
to make payment until 15 August due to unforeseen circumstances. He says he is 
expecting a student loan to bring his account back to normal. Mr O says At the 
moment am not in a good position to make payment until 15/08/2018 due to 
unforeseen circumstances which I called to explain to one of your customer service 
members after the proposed end of July 2018 date. I regret to inform your outfit of 
this temporary unexpected situation. However, am expecting my student loan to help 
me bring my account to normal. 
On 15 August 2018, Mr O asks Varooma what his overdue balance is. Varooma 
responds a day later and tells him he is £929.17 in arrears (not the total settlement 
figure but what Mr O needs to repay to bring his account back in order. The 
settlement figure is higher). It also says that the account is in active repossession 
and that his car is at risk. Mr O queries the amount owed as he thought it was about 
£680 and also asks whether Varooma has considered his circumstances. Varooma 
reply and say it has noted his circumstances, but without a payment that it deems 
suitable Varooma cannot hold further action. It then concludes that Mr O didnt make 
payment in July as agreed and then didnt make payment on 15 August as agreed. It 
says due to non-payment the account is active with possession. 
Mr O at this point informs Varooma that he is out of work. In response to this still on 
the 16th August, Varooma reply and say his contract has been terminated. It says in 
order to prevent repossession action; Mr O would now need to settle the loan in full 
or surrender the vehicle. There is then some discussion about Mr O surrendering the 
vehicle, with Varooma requesting the location of it, but Mr O doesnt respond. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Os complaint and felt that when he notified Varooma of his 
change in circumstances on 1 August 2018, that it should have treated him fairly and 
sympathetically and it didnt. I agree with this. I think it should have picked up on the fact Mr 
O was struggling to repay his loan on this day and exercised a greater degree of 
forbearance than it did.  Mr O was showing signs that he was struggling to meet his instalment repayments when 
they fell due. He was late to pay his first instalment in December 2017 and then also late 
with his following two instalments in January and February 2018. In March 2018 he 
contacted Varooma to notify it that he didnt have the funds to make payment and then 
arranged to pay at a later date in the month. He then didnt make a payment in April and 
although he did make a payment in May 2018 he was still at this point in arrears, owing 
£89.88. Mr O missed his repayment for June 2018 also and it was at this point that Varooma 
started adding additional interest along with charges. By the time Mr O informed them on 1 
August 2018 that he was in financial difficulty, he had also missed several payment dates 
that he had agreed with Varooma. I think it would have been clear to Varooma  by then if not 
before, that Mr O was struggling to repay his loan as well as informing it that he was having 
problems financially. I think this is when it should have given due regard for Mr Os interests 
here and treated him fairly.
I havent seen enough from Varooma that shows it gave Mr O due consideration for the 
arrears that he had accrued by 1 August 2018, in missed repayments, additional fees and 
charges. I dont think it engaged enough with Mr O to discuss payment of the arrears or gave 
him a reasonable time and opportunity to repay what he owed to bring his account up 
straight. I cant see that it discussed with Mr O for example an affordable repayment plan for 
his arrears. I dont think that Varooma exercised forbearance at this point and instead 
enacted the terms of its loan agreement.
I dont think Varooma treated Mr O fairly when it responded to him in this way and so I 
uphold his complaint. 
After receiving the adjudicators view, Varooma offered to remove all charges and all 
additional interest that it had applied after the end of June 2018. I think Varoomas offer is a 
fair one, but I would like to be clear about how this should be calculated. I say this because 
Varooma to date havent been able to clearly show how it plans to rework the account, 
taking into consideration what it has offered. 
I can see from comparing a statement of account provided by Varooma on 31/03/2020 and a 
more recent one on 17/02/2021, that it is still applying additional interest and so the amount 
owed is increasing by the day. When it works out how much Mr O still owes, it should do 
what it has offered to and remove all charges and all additional interest applied from July 
2018 onwards. So only additional interest charged up to the end of June 2018 should remain 
owing alongside the original amount owing under the agreement of £1,050. It should then 
subtract from this what Mr O has paid it to date. 
Varooma should then engage with Mr O and both parties should discuss a repayment plan. I 
would like to remind Varooma of its responsibilities to treat Mr O fairly when it does this.  
Putting things right
  Varooma should:
Remove all additional interest and charges applied to Mr Os account from 1 July 
2018 and in particular remove the repossession charge. It should add all additional 
interest added to the account by the end of June 2018 and add this to the original 
debt balance under the agreement. It should then deduct all payments made by Mr O 
from this amount. 
Work with Mr O to come to a mutually agreed repayment plan for any remaining 
amount owed. Varooma must give Mr O an explanation of how it has calculated any 
balance and make clear that it has followed what I have directed above.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file for this loan once its 
been settled. 
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint about Greenlight Credit Ltd 
(trading as Varooma) and require it to put things right for him as Ive set out above.
Ill wait two weeks before I consider my final decision on this case and will accept any 
comment or new information from either party within that time
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman