DRN-2411765
The complaint
Mr M complains about the poor service and delays caused by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited when dealing with a claim on his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had two insurance policies with Admiral. A home insurance policy covered his 
residential property and he had landlord insurance for a buy to let property he owned. Mr M 
reported some water damage to the buy to let property but hes unhappy with Admirals 
delay in dealing with the claim. It suggested hed been dishonest because hed 
misrepresented how his properties were being used after some confusion over which 
address had been entered.
 
As a result Mr M said hed been asked for six forms of identification which he felt was 
excessive. It was clearly designed to delay dealing with the claim. A simple phone call 
wouldve clarified the situation. Mr M said he objected to the term misrepresentation used 
by Admiral. Any issue with the address entered for the claim had been an error on his part 
and not a dishonest action. Mr M wants Admiral to deal with his claim. But hes also unhappy 
with the large policy excess. And he wants an apology and compensation from Admiral for 
the poor service and distress caused. 
Admiral said Mr M had entered the address for his residential property when he submitted 
the claim for water damage. But hed responded by email to confirm the address hed 
entered was a buy to let property. So Admiral had needed to make sure the information it 
had was correct and the right cover was in place. Admiral said it hadnt delayed responding 
to his claim. But it did need to clarify which address the claim related to  and whether that 
property was residential or buy to let.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Admirals response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mr M had submitted his claim via an 
online form. But hed entered his residential address rather than the buy to let property 
where the damage had occurred. And Mr M had confirmed the address hed entered was 
used as a rental property.
Our investigator could see Mr M had accepted hed entered the wrong address. But she 
didnt think the form was unclear. And although Admiral had used the term 
misrepresentation it was a commonly used term and in this case referred to Mr M 
mistakenly entering the wrong address. So she didnt think Admiral had acted unreasonably 
in requesting evidence to be certain of the use of his residential address.
She could see Mr M had also complained about the policy excess. But the excess amounts 
were clearly set out on the renewal documentation each year. So Mr M had the opportunity 
not to renew if he was unhappy with the cover being offered. And she wouldnt be asking 
Admiral to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He feels that when he was asked for the address he was right to enter his 
residential address. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M was an existing customer of Admiral. It provided home insurance for his residential 
property. So when Mr M acquired a buy to let property he asked Admiral to provide landlord 
insurance as well. 
But he feels Admiral provided a poor level of service following damage at the rental property. 
So Ive looked at everything Mr M and Admiral have said to see if Admiral has done anything 
wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
When Mr M went online to submit a claim to Admiral he was asked to provide certain 
information through the online claim form. And there seems to have been an issue with the 
address he entered. 
Mr M put in the details for his residential property when he submitted the claim. I appreciate 
this is the address Mr M associates with himself. But the claim was for damage to the buy to 
let property - not for damage to his normal place of residence. And this seems to have 
caused the delays Mr M is unhappy about.
When Mr M entered his residential address against the claim he also confirmed the property 
was being used as a rental property. I appreciate Mr M was trying to indicate who he was 
and where he lived while confirming the claim was actually for his buy to let property. But this 
wouldve inevitably caused some further questions from his insurer.
According to its records, Admiral believed the address Mr M had entered was a residential 
property. And it was being insured accordingly. But Mr M had now indicated it was a rental 
property. And this would have an impact on the type of insurance cover provided.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to ask further questions to clarify the 
situation, or to ask for additional information to confirm Mr Ms identity and normal place of 
residence. It needed to be certain its records were correct, and that Mr M had provided the 
correct information when arranging home insurance for his residential property and landlord 
insurance for his buy to let property.
I realise Mr M wouldve been upset by Admiral using the phrase misrepresentation. But this 
is a standard industry term and wasnt being used to suggest Mr M was being deliberately 
dishonest. 
On this occasion it seems Mr M carelessly misrepresented the address through simple 
error. And, as his insurer, Admiral was then required to carry out further checks to make sure 
what the situation was. So I dont think Admiral acted unfairly in requesting further 
identification in the circumstances. 
Mr M is also unhappy with the level of excess Admiral has applied to the claim. Ive checked 
the policy schedule and it confirms the escape of water excess is £500 and the compulsory 
excess is an additional £250. 
Its not the role of this service to tell businesses what level of excess they should apply to 
their policies. Thats a commercial decision. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr M 
wouldnt have been aware of the excesses applicable to the landlord policy when he applied 
for insurance cover. They are clearly stated on the policy schedule and are repeated on the annual renewal documents. So I think Mr M shouldve been aware what excesses applied to 
his landlord insurance policy.
I do appreciate the level of stress this has caused Mr M and the impact it has had on his 
tenant. But Admiral needed to clarify details about the insurance cover it provided after a 
claim was submitted for damage to a rental property when its records showed the address 
entered was residential. 
Although this wouldve led to some delay I dont think that was unreasonable or a deliberate 
action by Admiral to delay dealing with the claim. It needed to be sure what the facts were so 
it could assess things properly.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what Ive seen I cant say 
Admiral has done anything wrong. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman