DRN-2212444
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way in which MBNA Limited handled her credit card account 
when she fell into arrears.  
What happened
Miss W had an MBNA credit but was unable to make payments in full. In June 2014 she 
entered a debt arrangement scheme, which included the MBNA account. Payments started 
in September 2014, and MBNA sent a formal default notice in November 2014  followed by 
others in the following months.
In March 2015 MBNA registered the default with credit reference agencies, showing that 
month as the date of default. 
In June 2015 MBNA passed the account to a different business, A. At the end of the debt 
arrangement, however, A said that Miss W still owed money. MBNA looked into that and 
concluded that it had, wrongly, charged interest on the account after the debt arrangement 
scheme was put into place; interest should have been frozen. MBNA told A about the error, 
so it  as the owner of the account  could make the necessary adjustments.
Miss W complained to this service about what MBNA had done, and one of our investigators 
considered what had happened. She took the view that MBNA should have registered the 
default sooner than it did  in September 2014, when the debt arrangement plan began  
and that MBNA should not have charged interest after that date. She noted that A, as the 
owner of the debt, was responsible for updating the credit file; MBNA had told A about the 
error in charging interest, but the investigator thought it should, in addition, pay Miss W £150 
in recognition of the distress its errors had caused.     
MBNA accepted the investigators recommendations, but Miss W didnt and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons. 
In response to the investigators view, Miss W said she thought it was unfair that she was 
charged interest after she entered into the debt arrangement plan. But the investigator 
agreed with that, and so did MBNA. I note too that MBNA indicated it told A about the error. I 
dont believe it can reasonably be expected to have done any more. Of course, the error 
shouldnt have been made in the first place, but in my view MBNA did what it could to correct 
the mistake once it came to light. 
The investigator also said the default should have been registered earlier, and MBNA agreed 
with that finding as well. But its now for A to address any issues relating to credit reference 
agencies. 
As well as taking steps to correct the errors, the investigator thought MBNA should pay Miss 
A some compensation. Again, MBNA accepted that, and agreed to the suggested figure of 
£150. I agree that its reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Although MBNA has agreed to the suggested compensation, I will make an award, so that 
Miss W can enforce it should that be necessary. In doing so, Im assuming it hasnt already 
been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint MBNA Limited should pay Miss W £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman