DRN-3094179
The complaint
Miss R complains that she couldnt access her ISA with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Miss R had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Lloyds. She was having renovations 
done at her home and needed to pay contractors for the work. She needed to transfer the 
money from her ISA to do that. She called Lloyds initially in March 2020 but couldnt get 
through. She called Lloyds again in June 2020 but couldnt make the transfer as she didnt 
have the account number of the ISA. She then visited a branch to make the transfer of 
£10,030.42, which was made on 23 June 2020.
Miss R complained. She said it had taken three months to get at her money. She didnt have 
the account number of the ISA as all the paperwork was boxed up at her home. When she 
called Lloyds on 1 June 2020, Lloyds said theyd send her a security code for her to use in 
telephone banking  and then she would be able to make the transfer. But when that arrived 
and she called again  on 18 June 2020, they wouldnt make the transfer as she didnt have 
her account number. Miss R said the call handler on the call was rude to her. She then had 
to visit a branch which put her at risk of catching the virus. She had a medical condition 
which meant she was vulnerable. She said she wanted compensation of £500 for what 
happened.
Lloyds said their call handlers were correct to say that Miss R needed to give her account 
number to set up a payment from the ISA.They apologised for the long wait times Miss R 
had experienced on the phone, but it wasnt their policy to compensate someone who chose 
to stay on hold.
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds acted reasonably. Lloyds 
needed to have Miss Rs account number as part of their security checks  to protect Miss 
Rs account from fraud. Ideally, the first call handler on 1 June 2020 shouldve made Miss R 
aware that the account number would be needed, but he didnt. She didnt agree that the call 
handler on 18 June 2020 was rude to Miss R.
Miss R said that her reputation with the contractors had suffered. She said she thought that 
Lloyds should offer solutions to their customers during the pandemic. She asked that an 
ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R called Lloyds in June 2020 to ask for a transfer from her ISA to an account which 
was not held with Lloyds. Ive listened to the calls that took place between Miss R and Lloyds 
on 1 June 2020 and on 18 June 2020.
In the first call, Miss R explained that she had no paperwork at all as everything was in 
boxes  due to the renovations taking place at her home. Lloyds call handler said he would 
organise to send Miss R a code in the post for her to use to ask for the transfer using 
telephone banking. I think he gave the impression that this was all that was needed for the 
transfer to be completed. But on the other hand  on the call, Miss R didnt say she didnt 
have her account number  so Lloyds call handler wasnt aware of that. 
Miss R then called Lloyds on 18 June 2020  and she had the code that Lloyds had sent to 
her. She was then told she would need the sort code and account number to make the 
transfer.
Lloyds told us that it was part of their process to ask for the account number of the ISA  as 
part of their security checks. I think this is reasonable  its a fact that banking fraud is 
increasing and all banks, including Lloyds, have checks in place to help protect customers 
from fraud. And - I think its only reasonable to have expected Miss R to have her account 
number to hand to make the transfer.
As a result, Lloyds asked Miss R to go to a branch to validate the transfer - which she did, 
and I can see the transfer of £10,030.42 was made on 23 June 2020. This was also part of 
Lloyds processes in this situation. Miss R says that because of her medical condition, this 
put her in a vulnerable position. But - this was also part of Lloyds processes  and the first 
call hander on 1 June 2020 said that was another way that Miss R could make the transfer.
Miss R argues that Lloyds shouldve had processes in place to help customers during the 
pandemic  in other words, that they shouldve been prepared to relax their rules because of 
the pandemic. I understand where shes coming from  but also, Lloyds regulators, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance in May 2020  that banks should not 
relax their security checks and processes because of the pandemic. There was, I think a 
concern that attempts at fraud could increase because of it. And so  Lloyds didnt change or 
relax their processes as Miss R suggests.
Miss R has said that Lloyds call handler on 18 June 2020 was rude. Having listened to the 
call  I dont agree that was the case. There was a delay because Miss R had asked to 
speak to a manager, and the call handler was trying to organise that. And then I think Miss R 
hung up through frustration  she confirmed she did so when she called to complain in 
another call later that day. I can imagine that the whole episode was frustrating for Miss R  
but I dont agree that Lloyds call handler was rude in any way.
Miss R says she had tried to call Lloyds earlier than June 2020  shed been trying since 
March 2020 to get through but had given up several times, having been on hold. I can see 
how frustrating this must have been for her  but all banks, including Lloyds, had to 
reorganise how they dealt with calls at that time  and had sent staff home because of the 
pandemic. Its acknowledged that there were long wait times on calls for many customers. 
But equally, the FCA also said at the time that they asked customers to be patient  given the 
unprecedented circumstances. 
I can see how frustrating an experience this was for Miss R, and she will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Lloyd to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman