DRN-1913645
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy for damage to his garden boundary wall. 
Hes also unhappy with the way in which his claim was assessed.
What happened
Mr M holds a policy of home insurance, which was underwritten by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds). 
In early November 2018 Mr M said he suddenly noticed that his garden boundary brick wall, 
which is attached to his house, had two significant vertical cracks running through it. Mr M 
thought this had, most likely, happened overnight as a result of unprecedented high winds 
during Autumn 2018. And he said hed seen no change to the wall in the 20 years hed 
owned his property prior to November 2018.
As the damaged wall was a party wall, Mr M and his neighbour decided to instruct a 
structural engineer, who Ill refer to as S in this decision, to inspect the wall and determine 
what had caused the damage. 
Following S inspection it produced a report, which said the wall was leaning and in a 
dangerous condition. S stated the wall defects were as a result of a combination of at least 
half a dozen various contributing factors including physical force from the tree roots, 
exposure to wind on the upper sections of the wall or softening or slip of underlying 
materials, which may be on a sloping profile based natural topography.
Given the content on S report, Mr M asked his solicitor to contact Lloyds on his behalf in 
order to make a claim for damage to the wall under his insurance policy. Mr Ms solicitor 
corresponded with Lloyds about the wall. But it didnt provide it with a copy of S report.
After Lloyds assessed Mr Ms claim it informed his solicitor that it wouldnt cover the damage 
to his wall. It said it didnt think the wall damage had been caused by either a one-off storm 
event or subsidence. It stated the damaged wall wasnt an integral part of Mr Ms home and 
there was no damage to his main property  as was required under his policy. Instead, 
Lloyds stated the condition of the wall had deteriorate due to age related wear and tear and 
workmanship issues, which were excluded under Mr Ms policy. 
But Lloyds hadnt seen S report at this stage. It had made its decision based only on the 
information Mr Ms solicitor had provided. Mr M felt Lloyds hadnt properly considered the 
circumstances of his claim. He thought it should have inspected the damage to the wall 
itself. And so, he complained that Lloyds decision to decline his claim was unfair.
Lloyds investigated Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. It maintained its decision to decline 
his claim as it didnt think the main cause of the damage had been a one-off storm event or 
subsidence. However, while Lloyds didnt think it had made an error in declining Mr Ms 
claim it arranged for a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to visit his property and inspect the 
wall. They attended Mr Ms property in early 2020 but also thought the wall had deteriorated as a result of age related wear and tear, poor workmanship and the factors identified by S in 
its report. So, Lloyds maintained its decision to decline Mr Ms claim.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to his complaint, Mr M referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened but they werent persuaded the damage to Mr 
Ms wall had occurred due to an insured event. So, they didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly 
in declining to cover Mr Ms claim and they didnt recommend upholding his complaint. But 
Mr M disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed 
submissions and feels very strongly that his claim should be met. I want to assure him that 
Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope hell understand if I dont address every comment 
hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint 
 namely whether Lloyds acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill explain why I think 
it has.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Ms garden boundary wall. However, theres 
a disagreement between the parties about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim.  
Mr M has complained that initially Lloyds didnt properly assess his claim. But I dont agree 
with this part of his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms insurance policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events that are listed within an insurance policy and they 
cover damage caused, for example, by subsidence and storm etc. Where a policyholder 
makes a claim, its their responsibility to prove the damage was caused by an insured event. 
The letter Mr Ms solicitor sent to Lloyds to initiate the claim stated the garden boundary wall 
has in recent years shown signs of considerable damage. And I can see Mr M said the wall 
was already leaning when he purchased his property over 20 years ago. 
Mr Ms solicitor didnt enclose S report with its correspondence to Lloyds. But, based on the 
information in its letter, I can understand why Lloyds didnt feel it needed to see S report 
prior to determining whether the damage was covered under Mr Ms policy. Its clear that Mr 
Ms solicitor was referring to pre-existing damage that had happened over a period of time, 
which is excluded under his policy. 
It wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to assess Mr Ms claim based on the information his 
solicitor had provided on his behalf. And I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in using the 
information Mr Ms solicitor had provided in order to decline this claim on the basis that the 
damage to the wall had been caused by age-related wear and tear and poor workmanship. 
I can see that Lloyds agreed to reinvestigate Mr Ms claim after he provided S report. I think 
this was a fair approach by Lloyds. Having carefully considered the content of S report its 
clear it feels a combination of at least half a dozen various contributing factors may have 
caused the damage to the wall over a long period of time  again this is excluded under Mr 
Ms policy.I appreciate that Mr M feels Lloyds should have visited his property in order to inspect his 
wall prior to declining his claim. But Ive already explained why Lloyds already had enough 
information to enable it to assess the claim Mr M was making and determine the likely cause 
of damage. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds not to appoint a surveyor to 
assess the damage. An insurer doesnt always do so when a claim is made. Thats a 
commercial decision for it to take, based on the individual circumstances of the claim.
I note that Lloyds appointed a PCC to attend Mr Ms property and give its opinion on the 
cause of the wall damage. Following its visit it informed Lloyds that it agreed with S that 
multiple factors may have contributed to the damage to the wall. This was essentially a third 
assessment by Lloyds of Mr Ms claim. And, like our investigator, Im persuaded Lloyds 
thoroughly investigated the cause of the damage to Mr Ms wall. 
Its clear Mr M feels his wall has been damaged by subsidence. But his policy excludes loss 
or damage to boundary and garden walls unless the policyholders home also sustains 
damage by the same cause at the same time. 
Here, I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that Mr Ms home was also damaged. Im 
therefore not satisfied the damage to Mr Ms wall can be covered under the subsidence 
clause of his policy. 
Mr M also believes his wall was damaged by unprecedented high winds during Autumn 
2018. Hes told our service there were several storms during September and October 2018 
that may have contributed to the damage. However, I can see our investigator has carefully 
reviewed weather reports from around the time Mr M noticed the damage and found no 
evidence of any storms.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Ms complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Ms policy doesnt define the word storm. 
This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm generally 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. When looking a wind 
speed, we generally considers wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a 
storm. 
Ive carefully reviewed weather records of Mr Ms locality from September 2018 to the date 
he noticed the wall damage. But I cant see any wind speeds recorded of 47mph or above.
While Ive taken what Mr M told our service about the weather in September and October 
2018 into account, the highest wind speeds, Ive seen recorded were 41 mph on 19 
September 2018. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but there isnt enough evidence to satisfy me there was a storm 
in the weeks leading up to him noticing that damage to his wall had occurred. And, as Im not persuaded that a storm occurred, I dont need to go on to address questions two or three as 
outlined above. So, I cant uphold Mr Ms storm claim.
Based on what Mr M has said about his wall, the content of S report and the photographs 
taken of the damage, its clear to me that his garden boundary wall has been in a very poor 
condition for a number of years prior to November 2018 when he said the vertical cracks first 
appeared. Im satisfied the deterioration of Mr Ms wall happened over a long period of time 
and was caused by both age related wear and tear and poor workmanship. 
Mr Ms policy excludes damage that happens due to wear and tear and poor workmanship. 
This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to 
cover the unforeseen  and something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt 
unforeseen. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this decision; he feels very strongly about the issues 
raised in his complaint. But, overall, Im persuaded the wall damage, most likely, occurred 
due to poor workmanship and age related wear and tear. So, Im satisfied Lloyds acted 
reasonably in declining Mr Ms claim. And this means it wouldnt be fair to require it to pay 
this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman