DRN-4222054
The complaint
Mr G complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) unfairly declined his claim 
following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr Gs car was stolen from his driveway. He contacted One Insurance to 
make a claim. It told him his claim had been declined because he hadnt kept it in a garage 
overnight. Mr G says he wasnt made aware this was a requirement. He says he was 
provided with no policy documentation and couldnt access this information via One 
Insurances portal. He says his claim should be accepted and he should be compensated. 
In its final complaint response One Insurance says a GO1 garaging warranty was applied 
to Mr Gs policy from inception. This requires his car to be kept in a locked garage between 
10pm and 6am. It says this endorsement was highlighted during the online sales journey, 
and in the policy documents made available via Mr Gs online portal. 
One Insurance says there was no activity recorded on Mr Gs portal until after his car had 
been stolen. It says he didnt notify it of any issues accessing the portal until after the theft. 
One Insurance says it provided information to Mr G during the sales process, and via his 
portal, confirming the garaging endorsement. It says it isnt responsible that Mr G didnt read 
it. One Insurance says Mr G didnt comply with the terms of his insurance, which is why it 
declined his claim. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He thought the onus was on Mr G to contact the business when he 
didnt receive or have sight of his policy documents. The policy incepted in July 2022. Our 
investigator says Mr G could reasonably have contacted One Insurance in the six-month 
period leading up to the theft of his car. 
Mr G disagreed. He maintains the problem with his online portal prevented him from knowing 
about the garaging endorsement. He didnt think this was made clear when taking out the 
policy either. Mr G also says his car couldve been stolen after 6am, which was outside of 
the garaging requirement. Because he disagreed with our investigators view, Mr G asked for 
an ombudsman to consider his complaint.  
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read Mr Gs policy information to see what it says about the garaging requirement. His 
policy schedule says:
ENDORSEMENTS APPLYING
GO1 OVERNIGHT GARAGING WARRANT APPLIES
And:
GO1  Garaging Overnight
Your insurance policy excludes cover for loss or damage to your vehicle between the hours 
of 22:00 (10pm) and 06:00 (6am) whilst your car is being kept at, or within  mile of, the 
garaging address (or address advised on your insurance policy), unless it is kept in a locked 
garage at the time of the loss or damage.
Mr Gs policy booklet, which contains his full terms and conditions, says:
You should read this policy, the schedule, endorsements and Certificate of Motor Insurance 
as one contract. It is our agreement with you, based on the information you give to us and on 
the information in your proposal or statement of facts.
One Insurance says Mr Gs insurance broker highlighted the garage endorsement when the 
policy was taken out online. Its provided a screen shot of what this looked like. I can see 
that this says, Endorsements  GARAGED OVERNIGHT.
Ive also seen the Statement of Fact document that sets out the information Mr G provided to 
One Insurance when taking out his policy. In response to the question, Where is Vehicle 
Kept Overnight the response provided was, Garaged at [Mr Gs postcode]. 
One Insurance says Mr G told it his car would be garaged overnight, when he took out his 
policy. This triggered its GO1 endorsement requiring his car to be kept in a locked garage 
between the hours of 10am and 6pm when at his home address. Based on this evidence Im 
satisfied that Mr G told One Insurance his car would be garaged overnight. And it was made 
clear in his policy documentation that this must be between 10pm and 6am. 
Ive thought about Mr Gs comments that he couldnt access his online portal to read his 
policy documents. This meant he didnt know about the endorsement. 
Mr G says he did try to access the portal around the time his policy incepted. Hes provided 
several emails he received when trying to login into his account. The emails appear to show 
him attempting to access his account, on 20, 22 and 28 July 2022, without success. 
Mr G has also sent screenshots of a webchat with One Insurances agent sometime after the 
theft of his car. The agent explains he had an old policy, which used the same details and 
email address as his current car insurance. When he logged in to the portal this meant he 
would only be able to see details of one of the policies. The agent explains that the two 
accounts had since been merged. This meant he could see all the information under one 
portal. The agent confirms this was done in January 2013. This was when Mr G had made it 
aware that he couldnt view his policy documents, which was around the time of the theft.
Our investigator asked One Insurance to comment further on the portal issue. It responded 
to say Mr G had a home insurance policy back in 2020-2021. But that this shouldnt have 
stopped him accessing his car insurance documents. It says this is because the home 
insurance documents were removed 90 days after the policy lapsed. 
Ive thought about One Insurances comments. But Mr G has provided evidence that shows 
he still couldnt access his insurance documents, via the portal, at the time his car was stolen. This supports his testimony that there was an issue with the portal. This prevented 
him accessing his policy documents. To do this One Insurances agent had to resolve the 
problem before access via the portal was possible. 
Having thought about all this, I think the evidence shows there was an issue that prevented 
Mr G accessing his insurance documents via the portal. But he was aware of this in July 
2022. This was around six months prior to his car being stolen. I think a reasonable person 
wouldve contacted One Insurance much sooner to report this.
I also note that the online application confirmed there was a garaging endorsement in place. 
Mr G had sight of this when he was taking out his policy. 
Based on this information I dont think Mr G acted reasonably. He was aware of a problem 
with the online portal, and this meant he couldnt read his policy documents. He shouldve 
contacted One Insurance much earlier to resolve this issue. Because he didnt I dont think 
Mr Gs explanation of why he was unaware of the garaging endorsement, is reasonable. 
Ive thought about what we know about the time Mr Gs car was stolen. Ive listened to the 
first notification of loss call from 11 January 2023. In this call Mr G says he discovered his 
car was missing at 8.30am. He says he last saw it at 1am and had planned to go out again 
at 3am but didnt.  
One Insurance discussed the claim with Mr G again by phone on 26 January 2023. Ive 
listened to this call as well. He says the car was taken between 3am and 8.30am. Mr G 
subsequently changed this account to him arriving home sometime between 1am and 3am. 
He explained to One Insurances agent that he fell asleep, which is why he didnt go out 
again at 3am as planned. Mr G again confirms that it was 8.30am when he discovered the 
car was missing. 
Having listened to both call recordings there is a discrepancy in Mr Gs testimony about the 
time hed returned home. However, he was clear that the car wasnt parked in the garage 
when it was taken. Based on Mr Gs testimony the car was parked on his driveway from 
sometime after 1am until it was noticed missing at 8.30am. 
One Insurance says its policy endorsement wasnt followed as Mr G didnt keep the car 
garaged that evening. I accept this is what the evidence shows. Mr G says he usually keeps 
the car in the garage. However, it wasnt convenient to do so on this occasion as he was 
going to be making several trips out in his car. I understand his reasoning for not parking his 
car in the garage. But his policy terms say he must do so between the hours of 10pm and 
6am or cover is excluded. 
I note Mr Gs comments that the exact time his car was stolen isnt known. This means it 
couldve been taken after the garaging requirement ended at 6am. Ive thought carefully 
about this point. 
From Mr Gs testimony we know the car was parked on his drive sometime after 1am and 
before 3am. It was subsequently stolen sometime before 8.30am. From the testimony 
provided I find it more likely than not that the car was taken some time between 10pm and 
6am whilst the house was quiet, and Mr G was sleeping. The terms of his policy require his 
car to be garaged between 10pm and 6am. It wasnt. Therefore, I dont think One Insurance 
treated Mr G unfairly when declining his claim for the reason it gave.      
In its letter declining Mr Gs claim One Insurance says an insurer can void a policy if the 
information provided isnt a true representation. It says this could mean the policy being 
treated as if it never existed. For clarity, I asked One Insurance if it had avoided, or cancelled Mr Gs policy. It responded to say that it didnt do either of these. It says it declined Mr Gs 
claim for the theft of his car but that his cover remained in force. 
In summary, although Im sorry Mr G has suffered a loss, I dont think One Insurance treated 
him unfairly. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman