DRN-4455886
The complaint
The trustees of a trust which I will refer to as R, complain about the poor service they 
received from Barclays Bank UK Plc when updating new trustees names on the trust 
account. They say that this caused financial loss, inconvenience and legal costs.   
 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length       
here. Briefly, in early 2020, the existing trustees of R retired, and two new trustees were 
appointed in their place. The bank was advised of the change in May 2020. However due to 
various reasons Barclays failed to update the mandate until September 2021. This meant 
that the trustees could not operate the trust account throughout this period.
The trustees complained that not only this caused considerable inconvenience but also an       
investment loss. This was because they had intended to invest £165,000 out of the trust       
account into an investment fund in November 2020 but couldnt do so due to delays by the       
bank. They calculated the investment loss to be about £10,000. They also said that they had       
to incur legal costs in sorting out this matter.
Barclays upheld the complaint. It accepted that there were errors on its part, causing delays.       
However, it only offered (and paid) £460 for the inconvenience caused to the trustees. The       
trustees then brought the complaint to us. When the complaint was being considered by one       
of our investigators, Barclays made a further offer to reimburse the legal costs which the       
trustees had claimed. 
The investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. By way of resolution, he       
recommended that, in addition to what the bank had already agreed to pay, it should also       
compensate R for the investment loss. He said that Barclays should calculate the investment       
loss from December 2020 to September 2021 (when the trustees were able to operate the       
bank account). In addition, the bank should pay interest on that sum at 8% simple p.a. from       
September 2021 to the date of settlement.
Barclays agreed to compensate R for the investment loss but did not agree to pay interest.       
So, the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint, which forms part of this decision. I 
said: 
Barclays has accepted its errors. It has already paid £460 for the inconvenience caused to       
the trustees and have also offered to pay £2,938.20 to cover the legal fees incurred by the       
trustees in dealing with Barclays. I consider this a fair offer in relation to these matters. In       
reaching my conclusion I have taken into account that we do not usually award legal costs       
incurred in bringing a complaint to us.
The remaining issue is about the investment loss to the trust. The trustees have provided       
sufficient evidence to show that if they had access to the funds in December 2020, they       
would have invested £165,000 at that time in the Sustainable Balanced Model Portfolio       
offered by a particular fund manager. But they were unable to do so due banks errors. So, 
I consider it fair that Barclays compensates R for any loss incurred as a result.
From what I can see, Rs adviser produced a report recommending the above investment 
in November 2020. There were some follow up correspondence between the trustees and 
the adviser about the recommendation and eventually the adviser received the completed       
application form on 10 December 2020. So, it seems to me that this was the earliest date 
the investment could have been made.
The trustees could ultimately access the funds in September 2021 and so they would have       
been able to invest into this fund or elsewhere at that time. However, the trustees told us 
that the beneficiarys circumstances had changed by then and as a result the beneficiary       
withdrew the funds outright on 2 February 2022.
The trustees also told us that if the funds had been invested when originally intended, then, 
at the time the beneficiary was paid in February 2022, the trust would have had the benefit 
of the rise in the value of the investment which could have been passed on to the 
beneficiary at that point. 
I agree it is most likely that had the investment been made when originally intended, it 
would have continued until February 2022 at which point it would have been encashed and       
proceeds paid to the beneficiary.
Therefore, Barclays should calculate what the notional value would have been had the       
£165,000 was invested in the recommended Sustainable Balanced Model Portfolio on 10 
December 2020 and held until 2 February 2022. From that value it should deduct       
£165,000 to arrive at the loss to the trust as at 2 February 2022. This should be paid to the       
trust.
I now turn to investigators recommendation that Barclays should also pay the interest on 
the investment loss up to the date of settlement.
This complaint is brought by the trustees of the trust, and the loss to the trust on the 
missed investment opportunity was up to the point when the trustees paid the £165,000 to 
the beneficiary (2 February 2022). After that date any loss due to non-receipt of the higher 
amount is borne by the beneficiary. However, they are not a party to this complaint. And 
unfortunately, we are unable to consider a separate complaint from them in their capacity 
as the beneficiary.
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act       
2000 (FSMA). The rules that govern our complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
Under DISP 2.7.1R, a complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman       
Service if it is brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant. There are two parts to the       
eligibility test and the complainant must meet both parts to be eligible.
DISP 2.7.3R sets out the first part of the test. It lists the categories of complainants that are       
eligible to bring a complaint to our service. Without going into great detail, I think the       
beneficiary would fall under the category of a consumer.
   However, the second part of the eligibility test states that, to be an eligible complainant, a       
person must have a complaint which arises from matters relevant to one or more of the       
relationships specified in DISP 2.7.6R with the respondent.
There are several relationships specified under DISP 2.7.6R but unfortunately the       
beneficiary does not have any of those relationships with the respondent. For example, 
they are not the customer of the bank in this instance, it is the trustees of the trust.
What this means is that I do not have jurisdiction to consider (a complaint about) any       
potential loss the beneficiary would have incurred since February 2022.
Taking all of the above into account, my provisional conclusion is that in full and final       
settlement of this complaint, Barclays should:
Pay the £2,938.20 to the trustees if it has not already done so.
Calculate what the notional value would have been had the £165,000 was invested in 
the recommended Sustainable Balanced Model Portfolio on 10 December 2020 and 
held until 2 February 2022. Deduct £165,000 from that figure and if the resultant figure 
is positive, pay that to the trust. It should also provide a copy of the calculation to the       
trustees.  
What happened after my provisional decision 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
Barclays however said that it wasnt able to calculate the notional performance of the 
investment using Sustainable Balanced Model Portfolio. It said that this was a discretionarily 
managed portfolio, whereby the portfolio manager would choose which assets to invest in 
dependent upon the clients risk profile, investment objectives and market conditions 
(amongst other things). Barclays said that it has no way of knowing what the modelled 
portfolio would have looked like for the period in question. 
So, it suggested that it would use a benchmark instead to arrive at the notional performance. 
Accordingly, it calculated the notional value of the intended investment using APCIMS 
Income Total Return index (officially known as FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return 
index).
This calculation produced a loss of £10,087.61 for the period December 2020 to February 
2022. This was compared to the banks earlier offer to pay £10,780.95, which was based on 
an incorrect period (from December 2020 to September 2021). 
Barclays however said that it is willing to honour this previous offer together with the 
reimbursement of the costs totalling £2,938.20. Thus, in effect, it offered a total payment of 
£13,719.15.
I considered Barclays proposal. In cases where it is difficult to calculate the investment 
performance of a specific portfolio, we tend to ask the respondent firm to use a benchmark 
which broadly has similar asset mix to the said portfolio. In this instance, I was satisfied that 
the APCIMS Income index which Barclays has used as the benchmark had an asset mix 
similar to that of the intended portfolio during the relevant period. So, I wrote to the trustees setting out Barclays proposal, and said that I consider it to be a 
fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. I invited their comments. The trustees 
responded accepting the banks proposal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision. I consider that Barclays proposal to pay a total of 
£13,719.15 to the trustees represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, for 
the reasons explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of the 
complaint Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay £13,719.15 to the trustees of R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trustees of R trust 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman