DRN-3594491
The complaint and what happened
Miss B complains Al Rayan Bank PLC wont reimburse £6,980 she lost when she fell victim 
to a police impersonation scam. She was tricked into believing she needed to temporarily 
make payment to avoid serious criminal proceedings. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She was satisfied Al Rayan ought to have 
intervened in the final payment made; it was the fourth payment in one day, made in quick 
succession, to a new payee. She asked it to reimburse the payment, add 8% simple interest 
and pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Al Rayan agreed to make the payment as a gesture of goodwill, albeit it believed interest 
should only be paid to the date it agreed the investigators view. Miss B didnt agree and 
believes the bank ought to have intervened much earlier in the day. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only briefly summarised the background and arguments above, Id like to 
reassure both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so I 
agree with the investigators findings for the following reasons:
Miss B authorised the transactions, even if she was tricked into doing so. Whilst she 
didnt intend for her money to go to scammers, she is initially presumed liable for the 
loss; a bank is required to carry out payment instructions it receives from its 
customers. 
However, Al Rayan ought to be aware of our approach of expecting it to have been 
monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and 
in some situations, make additional checks before processing payments or declined 
them altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or 
scams. 
Having obtained bank statements from Al Rayan for the account, I have reviewed its 
operation in the months leading up to the transactions in question. And although Miss 
B has said she never spent the sorts of amounts in question, I disagree, there was 
some similar if not higher expenditure through card purchases in September and 
November 2020. However, I do agree, that setting up more than one new payee, and 
making multiple payments in one day, in quick succession, was highly unusual for the 
account. Like the investigator, Im satisfied the bank ought to have intervened when 
the final payment was made. Im not persuaded it should have acted earlier, as 
customers do set up new payees and make payments on the same day. But by the 
time of the fourth payment, Im satisfied the pattern of payments was suspicious and 
indicative of a scam.  Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied Al Rayans systems 
ought to have triggered an alert and payments paused pending further intervention  
such as making enquiries or giving a scam warning.
Had Al Rayan carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Miss B about the 
payments, I have no reason to doubt she would have explained what was happening. 
It could have informed her that police wouldnt act in the manner described, and 
certainly wouldnt have asked for payments to be made in order to stop a criminal 
prosecution from proceeding, particularly that they would be temporary and she 
would get more back. Im satisfied a warning from her trusted bank would likely have 
exposed the scam and caused Miss B to stop making payments, thereby preventing 
further loss of £2,500. 
I have considered the fraud alert that Al Rayan has said Miss B had seen 73 times, 
including on the day in question. And this does warn of police impersonation. But it 
also talks of moving money to a safe account, not the situation she was in. Rather 
Miss B had been told her identity had been stolen to carry out various criminal 
activities which she might be held responsible for. Im therefore not persuaded the 
alert was that impactful.  I have considered the scammer Whatsapped information to 
Miss B, a method Im not persuaded police would use to contact prospective victims, 
and I can see the Whatsapp number the messages were coming from was a mobile 
number.  This could have alerted Miss B to something not being quite right. But I 
have borne in mind, the number Miss B was purportedly called from is a genuine 
police number, so it appears to have been spoofed.  So when she checked this, she 
was reassured she was dealing with a genuine police officer. Understandably she 
was in a state of panic, to stop being prosecuted for crimes she hadnt committed, 
and she had very little time to take steps to avoid that. This was a sophisticated 
scam, that played on Miss Bs panic and upset.  Im therefore not minded to say she 
should bare any responsibility for the loss such that I would reduce compensation. 
Al Rayan agreed to the investigators outcome but said interest should only be 
payable until the date it agreed to settle as suggested. However, our approach is that 
interest should be paid until the date of settlement, and I see no reason to depart 
from that. 
I also agree Al Rayan should pay additional compensation. This was a particularly 
cruel scam that caused Miss B a lot of upset and worry. Whilst the bank isnt 
responsible for the actions of the scammers, this occurred at a time when she was 
already under pressure because of exams. Action from her trusted bank would have 
stopped the scam in its tracks, lessening her immediate financial loss, and alleviating 
any concern and panic she had about being implicated in criminal activity.   I find 
£200 to be a fair reflection of that.  
Finally I note Miss B is unhappy about the recovery attempts by Al Rayan. However, 
it can only make attempts by contacting recipient banks to ask for a return of funds; it 
isnt responsible for how quickly, or if at all, the recipient bank responds. I can see it 
has done that. And whilst Miss B is unhappy at not getting updates, it doesnt appear 
there was anything to update on, and its now highly unlikely any response is going to 
be forthcoming from the remaining bank.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Al Rayan Bank PLC should pay Miss B:
£2,500 as the loss from the final payment; and
Add 8% simple interest to that sum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax); and
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman