DRN-3997354
The complaint
Miss T complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves gave her loans 
which caused her financial distress and she had to take a number of other loans in order to 
repay them.
What happened
Miss T was advanced two loans by Fund Ourselves and below is a table summarising her 
borrowing. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £400.00 26/08/2020 13/11/2020 4 £188.80
2 £400.00 03/12/2020 24/01/2021 4 £181.60
Fund Ourselves wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold the complaint because 
it had carried out proportionate affordability checks before these loans were granted. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss T referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt think Miss Ts complaint 
should be upheld because in his view, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks 
which showed it Miss T would be able to afford these loans. 
Miss T didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment because the loans were unaffordable 
for her. She also said, she had other loans, issued by other lenders around the same time 
and they have been upheld. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Miss T could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ts income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss T. These factors 
include:
Miss T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss T. As there were only two loans 
the adjudicator didnt think this applied to Miss Ts complaint. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss T was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ts complaint.
For both these loans, as part of her application, Miss T declared a monthly income of 
£1,934. Fund Ourselves says it verified this income through a third party and it says the 
results it received were positive  indicating the income Miss T had provided was likely to be 
accurate. 
Miss T also declared the same monthly outgoings of £1,407 for both loans to cover several 
different items including, food, other credit commitments and utilities. Fund Ourselves 
believed, based on the information Miss T provided she had around £527 per month in 
disposable income to afford her largest repayment of £188.80. 
Therefore, it wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe these loans to be 
afford for Miss T. 
It doesnt seem that Fund Ourselves carried out a credit search before these loans were 
approved  but this wouldnt be a reason to uphold Miss Ts complaint because at the time 
these loans were approved there was no regulatory requirement for Fund Ourselves to have 
carried out a credit search. 
I accept Miss T missed her first payment due for her second loan, and I can see that 
Fund Ourselves then restructured the agreement before Miss T repaid the loan earlier than 
planned. However, the information given to Fund Ourselves didnt indicate that Miss T was 
having financial difficulties at the time the loan was advanced, and this means I cant uphold 
the complaint due to payment problems that occurred after loan 2 was lent. Given it was early on in the lending relationship  and only two loans were advanced, I think 
it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves to have relied on the information Miss T provided 
about her income and expenditure which showed she had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Miss T was having 
either financial difficulties or anything else to suggest that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for her. 
I also have to let Miss T know that this case was considered on the individual circumstances 
and merits, taking into account a number of factors but not limited to the number of loans, 
the value of those loans, the repayment history and what Miss T told Fund Ourselves about 
her income and expenditure at the time. So, while she may have had other loans upheld by 
other lenders who gave her loans at around this time. It doesnt automatically follow that her 
complaint about Fund Ourselves would also be successful. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman