DRN-1173750
Complaint
Miss L complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) unfairly closed her bank account after 
passing it to their recoveries team and as a result she could only open a basic account 
elsewhere causing her financial issues and stress.
Background
Miss L held a Platinum Account (PA) with Lloyds with an arranged overdraft facility, but 
because of Miss Ls financial situation the account was under financial pressure and hadnt 
been operating in the way Lloyds would have expected to see. 
Lloyds sent Miss L letters expressing their concerns and then advised that they would be 
passing the account to their recoveries team and closing her account.  Formal notice of this 
action was given by Lloyds in line with their terms and conditions. Miss L felt that they had 
not taken into account her latest financial position and she felt that Lloyds were not 
sympathetic to her situation. Miss L said she could only open a basic account with another 
bank, causing her further problems with direct debits and causing further stress. Lloyds felt 
they had acted fairly and the matter was then referred to this service.  
The investigator obtained all of the information available to her but didnt uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. The investigator said that Lloyds had acted sympathetically and had refunded 
account overdraft fees going back a number of months. The investigator said that passing 
the account to the recoveries team was the correct course of action given her financial 
position at the time.  The investigator went on to point out that Lloyds acted fairly on closing 
the account.  Miss L disagreed and asked for this case to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for much the same 
reasons. I will explain how I have come to my decision. 
Let me start by saying that I can understand the stress and frustrations Miss L describes 
when her account was placed into the recoveries team, and later, closed. It must be difficult 
for her to see her income levels fall away as she says and understandably she would wish 
her bank to provide support at this time. 
In coming to my decision Ive had to decide whether or not Lloyds acted unfairly, when 
making the decision to take recovery action and then close the account when they did. 
Ive seen various letters from Lloyds making clear her credit rating could be affected and that 
the account was not operating the way it should. On receipt of her income and expenditure 
profile Lloyds took the view, because her outgoings significantly exceeded her income, with no repayment plan possible, that the best option here would be to close the account so that 
Miss L couldnt use it and refer it to its recoveries team. 
I am satisfied these letters give a sufficient notice period and in line with their terms and 
conditions. Lloyds, (like most banks) provide overdraft facilities that are repayable on 
demand.  Under Your Personal Banking Terms and Conditions it explains that Lloyds can 
close an account for any reason, and two months notice will be given. It says that:
When this agreement ends, any account covered by it will close and any benefit or service 
we provide under it will stop. You must also:
a. Repay any money you owe us (including any payments you have made that have not yet 
been taken out of your account);
b. pay any charges (including daily arranged overdraft fees) up to the date the agreement, 
account or service ends;
I have also considered Miss Ls view that Lloyds havent been sympathetic to her financial 
situation. I can see that Lloyds refunded arranged daily overdraft fees. In doing this they had 
not applied the standard fees for over four years, which they had no obligation to do.
I have seen various notes of telephone conversations between Lloyds and Miss L and its 
difficult for me to see that she could have reached a workable repayment plan with Lloyds 
that might suggest she could find a way out of her financial problems.  
I am satisfied that Miss L wasnt in a position to continue operating the account as an 
arranged overdraft facility and to continue this way, it was likely, on balance that the account 
would get further into debt and incur more charges as a result. I have considered if there 
were other solutions Lloyds could have offered Miss L, but given that her loan with Lloyds 
was already with its recoveries team and she had a sizeable monthly financial deficit, I am 
satisfied Lloyds had exhausted the options available to them. 
Lloyds did suggest that Miss L contact a debt charity or Citizens Advice Bureau to review her 
financial situation. This is what I would have expected of them here. 
Miss L also says that Lloyds have closed her account and referred it to their recoveries team 
without her agreement. While I can understand that Miss L feels her financial position was 
improving and that she had managed to reduce her borrowing, this happened after the initial 
decision taken by Lloyds to move the account to their recoveries team. As I have mentioned 
before, Lloyds under their terms and conditions do not require Miss Ls agreement to close 
her account, in the same way she wouldnt need theirs to move her account elsewhere.
Miss L mentions that as a result of the account closure notice she had to make alternative 
banking arrangements and her new bank couldnt offer her an account that would allow 
direct debit and standing order payments causing her further stress and inconvenience. 
Whilst I can understand that it would be inconvenient for Miss L to make alternative banking 
arrangements, I dont feel that Lloyds can be held responsible for this as they did offer Miss 
L the opportunity to open a basic account with them in their earlier letter to her in July 2019. 
This would have allowed her to transfer across her direct debits and standing orders.
Overall, I think that Lloyds have shown that over a reasonable period of time they have tried 
to help Miss L, but, in situations like this there will  usually come a time when focusing on 
just recovering a debt is realistically the only option available to them.I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss L, but I cant see that I can ask 
any more of Lloyds here.
I am pleased to hear that Miss L says her financial circumstances are improving and I would 
recommend, if she hasnt already , that she makes contact with the debt charity Lloyds 
suggested. By doing this its possible a plan could be put together to improve her financial 
position and this may help reduce any stress she may be feeling. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 
19 May 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman