DRN-1414382
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2000 in connection with a mortgage. Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
Mrs H took out a PPI policy in connection with her mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for 
the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She initially 
complained that she didnt know it had been added to her mortgage account. But more 
recently complained she was told she had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. She says the 
PPI was sold to her as being part of the mortgage, so it was not shown as optional. She 
concludes it was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs H disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds Bank should have made Mrs H aware she had a choice in buying the policy. She 
initially said she wasnt aware the policy had been added to her mortgage. She more 
recently said she was told she had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.
Neither Lloyds Bank nor Mrs H have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
surprising given that the sale took place around 20 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, 
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
I think its probably more likely the optional nature would have been made clear as a 
consumer could decline to complete a PPI application form or a PPI section in the mortgage 
application form - and Mrs Hs very different memories of the events havent told me 
anything which makes me think Lloyds Bank didnt follow its normal process here. So 
overall, I think its more likely Lloyds Bank made it clear to her she had a choice about the 
PPI, and she agreed to buy it, although I can understand why she may not remember that 
now.
Lloyds Bank says it cant say whether the sale was advised or non-advised, so it has 
assumed it was an advised sale which means the PPI information had to be clear enough for 
Mrs H to make an informed decision and the policy had to be suitable for her financial needs. 
So I will also continue on the basis it was an advised sale as this creates a higher test level 
for Lloyds Bank.
I think the policy probably was suitable for Mrs H because she was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and she wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mrs H says she would have received good employee benefits and had life insurance. 
But the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months for accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. This would have been in addition to and for longer than her employee 
benefits and would have saved her other insurance for different life events. The mortgage 
was a long term financial commitment secured on her home, so I think having the security 
that her mortgage repayments would be made if she was unable to work would have been 
important to her  particularly as I think she was the only person contributing to her 
mortgage at the time. So I dont think Mrs Hs employee benefits and life insurance made the 
policy unsuitable.
Mrs H said she could rely on her family to pay her mortgage repayments. I do understand 
the point, but she may not have been able to rely on this support at some unknown point in 
the future of the mortgage term. So I dont think this makes the policy unsuitable.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Mrs H 
about the PPI about the cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But having decided she chose to take out the PPI - it looks like she wanted this type of cover 
for herself. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. So I think she most likely had enough 
information about the cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its 
unlikely that more information would have put her off from buying it.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs H. Its always difficult to decide 
a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what she said and 
about what Lloyds Bank said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold her complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman