DRN-3751978
The complaint
The trustees of a trust holding a reviewable life policy set up on Mr Ts life complain that Sun 
Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) should have done more to 
make them aware when the policy failed a review. 
What happened
The policy here was taken out in 2006. It was set up to pay its proceeds to a trust when Mr T 
died. Mr T was listed as the lead trustee, with two other people as additional trustees. 
In 2016, the policy failed a review. Sun Life sent Mr T a letter about this, explaining his 
options. The letter explained that if he did nothing, no changes would be made to the policy 
and he could expect it to end after four years. 
Mr T appears to have taken no action on that letter. In 2020, Sun Life wrote to Mr T again 
and confirmed the policy had ended. 
In 2021, Mr T died. At that point the additional trustees discovered the policy had ended. 
Their financial adviser  who had recommended the policy originally  raised their complaint 
with Sun Life.
Sun Life confirmed the policy had ended in line with its terms and conditions, and as their 
letters had explained to Mr T. They said theyd only written to Mr T, as he was the lead 
trustee and there was no direction to do otherwise. They also said they hadnt been made 
aware that Mr T was vulnerable, or that the letters they sent him were unsuitable for him.
Unresolved, the trustees brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at it, 
and found Sun Life had taken reasonable steps when informing Mr T about the policy 
review. He said nothing more needed to be done to resolve the complaint. 
The trustees disagreed, raising the following points specifically:
- Sun Life had sent the financial adviser copies of the policys annual statements, but 
not the review letters. 
- The policy was owned by all of the trustees, so Sun Life should have been informing 
all of the trustees about matters affecting the policy.
- Mr T should have been regarded as vulnerable because he knew less about life 
assurance products that Sun Life did.
- Having the policy end rather than having the sum assured automatically reduce was 
different to how other life policies worked. 
These comments didnt change our investigators view. So the complaint has come to me for 
a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate the trustees will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Weve been sent the terms and conditions for this policy. This is a good starting point for 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, as it shows what Sun Life committed to do when Mr T 
took the policy out.  
Whats happened here  the policy being reviewed and then ending  looks to be in line with 
those terms. So although the trustees representative has talked about other insurers doing 
things differently, Im satisfied Sun Life have acted as they always said they would. Thats 
consistent with a reasonable service being provided. 
Ive also seen an illustration from 2006 that talked about some options for the premium on 
this policy. The first page of this explained that if the level of premiums and benefits remains 
as shown the policy would end in year 13. Page two shows the premium being talked about 
was the premium thats been paid. 
So the end of the policy was foreseen and a warning given to Mr T  and presumably his 
adviser  at the outset. That did enough to make the trustees and their adviser aware that 
the first review  due after 10 years of the policy running  would likely call for the premium 
to be increased. 
I appreciate Sun Life didnt write directly to the additional trustees or their adviser on the first 
review. But that seems to reflect that a lead trustee has been contacted instead. I find thats 
a reasonable approach to take, even though it then leaves it for the lead trustee to inform the 
others. Ive seen that approach used by other companies, and Im not aware of any rules or 
best practice that says such a system cant be used. 
It'd be for the trustees to have told Sun Life if they considered Mr T to be vulnerable, or 
otherwise unsuitable to be the lead trustee. I cant see any such contact was made, so I find 
it reasonable for Sun Life to have continued writing to Mr T as the lead trustee. 
I also accept Sun Lifes position that there was no specific call for them to write to the 
adviser that sold the policy. The terms for the policy didnt say they would, and I cant see 
there was a specific request for them to do so, prior to the complaint. 
Ive thought about whether Sun Life should have done more though to seek contact from 
Mr T after he failed to respond to their review letter. Doing so may have highlighted any 
problems in his understanding of the situation, or possibly have alerted the other trustees to 
the need for action if the policy was to continue. 
But measured against that must be the need to respect a customers choice when it came to 
the options being presented. What would be useful contact here could seem like pestering 
sales calls to another customer.
Ultimately, there wasnt a formal requirement for Sun Life to do more than contact Mr T as 
the lead trustee. Sun Life could reasonably expect him in that role to consult with the other 
trustees when deciding what to do. And they could expect the trustees to have let them know 
if Mr Ts circumstances called for contact to be with someone else instead. With that in mind, I find Sun Life did enough here to inform the trustees that the policy had 
been reviewed  in line with its terms and conditions  and the options for its future. Whats 
happened here follows from that, rather than from a failing of Sun Life. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees in this 
complaint to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman