DRN-2910031
The complaint
Miss A has complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) dealt 
with a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A had a water leak in her home which caused a ceiling to collapse. So, she contacted 
Lloyds to make a claim. Lloyds accepted the claim and said it could repair the damage. 
However, Miss A said she wanted a cash settlement. Lloyds agreed to cash settle the claim 
for the amount it would have cost it to carry out the repair.
Miss A complained to Lloyds because she said she couldnt carry out the work herself for the 
amount offered. She was also concerned about how Lloyds had dealt with some aspects of 
the claim. When Lloyds replied, it accepted there had been issues with the claim, including 
system issues when Miss A first tried to register the claim, as well as in sending some 
documents. Lloyds said the amount it has paid to settle the claim was correct. It offered £75 
compensation for the claim handling issues.
When Miss A contacted this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
the policy allowed Lloyds to choose how it settled the claim. It had offered to carry out the 
work, but Miss A had asked for a cash settlement. Lloyds therefore only needed to pay a 
cash settlement for the amount it would have cost it to carry out the work.
As Miss A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require Lloyds to do anything further. I will explain why.
I should note that Im aware that Miss A later agreed to Lloyds carrying out the repairs and 
that she was unhappy with the quality of the work. Im not able to consider that as part of my 
decision. It didnt form part of the original complaint Miss A made to Lloyds or for which 
Lloyds issued the final response letters. Miss A would need to complain to Lloyds about any 
concerns she has about the quality of the work, as it needs to have the opportunity to 
address any issues.
It is common for an insurer to be able to carry out work more cheaply than a policyholder 
can, as they are often able to negotiate specialist rates with contractors. This can sometimes 
mean there is a difference between what a policyholder wants to receive as a cash 
settlement and what an insurer is willing to pay. However, that doesnt necessarily mean that 
the insurers offer is unreasonable.
The policy documents explained that Lloyds will decide how a claim will be settled and that 
this included appointing its own suppliers and trusted companies to deal with the damage. 
For Miss As claim, Lloyds said it would appoint a contractor to carry out the repairs. Miss A 
said she wanted a cash settlement because she felt uncomfortable with having an unknown 
contractor in her home, including because she lived alone and would have to leave them in 
her home while she was at work. 
Lloyds agreed to a cash settlement and said it would be for the amount it would have cost if 
its contractor had carried out the work. Miss A was unhappy with this offer because she said 
it wouldnt be possible for her to find anyone who could carry out the work for that amount. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Lloyds was entitled to decide how the claim was settled. It 
assessed that it could carry out the repairs itself, which the policy allowed it to do. I think 
Lloyds acted reasonably by then offering a cash settlement when Miss A said she would 
prefer to settle the claim in that way. But that didnt mean Lloyds had to pay the amount it 
would have cost Miss A to carry out the work herself. This is because Lloyds assessed the 
damage and decided its own contractor could do the work and costed it on that basis. The 
limit of Lloyds liability was what it would have cost it to do the work itself and that is what it 
offered as a cash settlement when Miss A asked to settle the claim that way. I think what 
Lloyds offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware that there were also some claim handling issues, including when Miss A tried to 
register the claim. I think Lloyds responded reasonably to the issues raised, including by 
offering £75 compensation. As a result, I dont require Lloyds to do anything further in 
relation to the issues raised in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited doesnt need to do anything further in relation to the issues raised in this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman