DRN-3409788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank Plc gave them incorrect information which led them 
to pay a higher early repayment charge on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Lloyds. They were looking to re-mortgage to have lower 
monthly outgoings and possibly take some equity to purchase another property. When Mr 
and Mrs L looked into their options, they were told in January 2022 that their early 
repayment charge would be around £1,099. Mr and Mrs L said they chose to re-mortgage 
with another lender based on this information. It was only when the new mortgage was going 
through that they discovered their early repayment charge was actually £2,943.89. 
Mr and Mrs L complained. They say they attempted to stop the re-mortgage but at this point 
the funds from the new lender had been received. Mr and Mrs L said they wouldnt have 
switched lenders had they known the actual early repayment charge and they wouldve 
continued with their current mortgage until it was lower.
Lloyds accepted it had made an error and paid Mr and Mrs L £300 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused. Mr and Mrs L say they would like the difference between the 
actual early repayment charge and the one they were quoted. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt the compensation 
Lloyds had paid was fair and reasonable for the distress Lloyds error had caused Mr and 
Mrs L. In summary, he said he didnt think that Mr and Mrs L wouldve done anything 
differently had they been aware of the correct early repayment charge. He said that their 
new mortgage payments were significantly lower and had a lower interest rate. He also 
explained they were able to release equity by moving to the new lender, something that 
Lloyds wasnt able to offer. So, he didnt think they had lost out.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They explained that had they known the correct information they 
wouldnt have changed lender. Consequently, theyd have had more equity in their house 
and could potentially borrow more later down the line. They said they have struggled as a 
result of paying this early repayment charge and would like Lloyds to pay at least half of it. 
They asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been difficult for Mr and Mrs L, but I think the compensation Lloyds 
has paid is fair and reasonable so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs L have said in detail, specifically their reasons for wanting 
to re-mortgage in the first place. Throughout this complaint Mr and Mrs L have said they 
wanted to lower their mortgage repayments and look to take equity out in their property. In 
Mr Ls recent email after the Investigators view, he said:
All we wanted to do was re-mortgage to a lower rate and either move or consider the 
possibility of taking out some equity.
Whilst I understand the early repayment charge was significantly higher than they were 
initially told, Mr and Mrs L have re-mortgaged to a lower rate and have increased their 
borrowing, which in essence is taking equity out in their home. I can see that their new 
repayments are over £300 per month lower than their previous repayments with Lloyds, and 
theyve borrowed an additional £50,000. So, they have achieved their objective. 
Ive thought about whether they were likely to have done something differently had they 
been given correct information. I can see from what Mr and Mrs L have told us, and the 
notes that Lloyds has provided, that they had been told previously that their early repayment 
charge was around £2,900. I can see that following this they asked Lloyds for additional 
lending but this wasnt something that worked out. So, I think that for them to achieve the 
additional borrowing and lower interest rate, their option was to re-mortgage with another 
lender. I can see they chose to do this after being told a lower early repayment charge  
which was given due to human error - so I understand this may have been a factor in their 
decision. But, I think its unlikely, knowing the new rates, new repayments and the fact theyd 
have over £50,000 additional borrowing, that theyd have continued with their Lloyds 
mortgage had they been told the correct information.
Its also important to note that the overall lower rate and repayments demonstrates to me 
that theyve unlikely lost out financially as a result. I know that Mr and Mrs L were keen to 
use the additional borrowing to purchase a buy-to-let property, and they have received over 
£1,800 less because of the higher early repayment charge. But I cant see they had a 
specific property purchase depending on the re-mortgage. So, I think the main impact here is 
the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced as a result.
I think finding out the early repayment charge was significantly higher than expected 
wouldve been a shock to Mr and Mrs L. But, given they still achieved their objectives, I think 
the £300 paid by Lloyds is fair compensation for this shock. It wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to 
pay Mr and Mrs L anything towards the early repayment charge, as it was charged correctly 
and in line with their mortgage terms  which I can see they have a copy of. So, I think the 
compensation already paid reflects the impact the error has had on them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman