DRN-2439416
The complaint
Mr M complains about the conditions he says Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited 
imposed on him to process his income withdrawal payments from his pension in 
drawdown. He says these conditions lead to delay and are not in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
He also says that Aviva is requiring him to do more than is necessary to process his 
income withdrawal payment.
What happened
Mr M has a pension with Aviva. He took his tax-free pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS). He then took three ad hoc income withdrawal payments from his pension fund. 
He says he intends to take further ad hoc payments until his fund is depleted. He began 
the process of taking these ad hoc income payments in December 2018, taking others in 
April and August 2019. 
Mr M says that to take a withdrawal payment he had to complete some actions on line via 
Avivas website. He says its terms and conditions say that he should be able to take a 
withdrawal payment after completing a single form. But, thats not the case. He says the 
steps Aviva required him to take build in delay, caused him extra inconvenience, led to 
more intervention by him and were contrary to whats set out in Avivas terms and 
conditions.
On 17 December 2018, Mr M wanted to withdraw funds from his pension. It seems 
Aviva required the following steps to be completed, before an income withdrawal 
payment could be made. These were:
(1) his cash fund had to have enough money in to cover the withdrawal. This 
involved Mr M cashing in assets held elsewhere in his pension fund, to pay into 
his cash fund. Until this was done Aviva would not issue an illustration. 
(2) Subject to his cash fund having enough money in to cover the withdrawal, 
Aviva would then send the illustration, showing the impact of the withdrawal on 
his pension plan. 
(3) Until an illustration was issued, Mr Ms income withdrawal request could not be 
actioned. Aviva says that it must send the customer an illustration, because it 
is a requirement under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Conduct of 
Business Rules (COBS).
(4) Mr M then had to accept the illustration to proceed with the withdrawal 
payment; This acceptance also required Mr M to make other declarations, 
before the payment could be made. 
(5) The withdrawal payment was then paid.
Due to a system error in December 2018, Avivas system failed to generate an 
on-line illustration and this had to be processed manually. Aviva produced the 
quotation on 18 December 2018. It emailed Mr M to say the documents were 
available in his on-line document library.
Mr M emailed Aviva and agreed to the illustration and provided payment 
instructions for the withdrawal payment. He queried why an illustration 
was required given the delay this caused and because he didnt consider 
that it was of any benefit to him.
Mr M contacted Aviva on 20 December 2018, to chase the payment of his 
withdrawal payment because he needed the funds by 1 January 2019. Aviva 
told Mr M that FCA rules require it to send an illustration when a consumer 
wants to make a withdrawal from their pension. It said payment would take five 
working days to complete.
Aviva later said, online a customer can only ask to withdraw money which they have 
available in their cash fund. But, it was possible for it to produce a what if illustration, 
without the customer having to disinvest their money first. But a what if illustration 
couldnt be initiated on-line.
It said for regular income payments, it wouldnt expect the customer to have to sell in 
advance. But for one-off withdrawals, the customer needed to have the money in the 
cash fund, as it wouldnt make any disinvestment decisions for the customer.
Mr M complained to Aviva about the conditions it was imposing and the delay this 
was building in. 
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
Mr M says, on average, it takes 22 days from when he starts the withdrawal 
process, to payment being made. 
He also said that obtaining a what if illustration didnt help, because before a 
withdrawal could be made another illustration had to be issued and accepted. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. She did not uphold it. She said the 
FCA handbook sets out the rules that a financial service business must follow. In 
her view, the rule applicable in this case was COBS 14.2.1 which says;
A firm that sells, or (where relevant) gives effect to a retail client's request to make 
one- off or regular uncrystallised funds pension lump sum payments from their 
personal pension scheme or stakeholder pension scheme for the first time must 
provide that client with:
key features illustration; and
such other information as is necessary for the client to 
understand the consequences of the request.
She didnt think that Aviva was treating Mr M unfairly by insisting it provided him with an 
illustration prior to a withdrawal being made, because it was following the rules set by 
the regulator, which it was required to do. She said this was done to ensure that he was 
provided with all the information he needed to make an informed decision before 
making the withdrawal. She thought the illustration was relevant in his case, as it showed how his pension would be affected in the future by making the withdrawal.
She acknowledged that Aviva had let Mr M take a withdrawal in the past, without 
providing an illustration. However, she said, Aviva said this was an error on its part, 
and it had noted the breach of the rules.
She said that it was Avivas on line policy to require the customer to have enough 
money in their cash account to pay for the withdrawal, before an illustration was 
issued. She noted that Aviva had said, if a customer just wants an illustration, and is 
not looking to withdraw money immediately, then it can provide an illustration 
without the need to sell off funds. But the customer would need to call to arrange 
this, that facility was not available on line.
Our investigator said that she was unable to tell Aviva to change its processes. But, 
didnt think making him disinvest prior to making the withdrawal was unreasonable. 
She said Aviva didnt know which funds he wanted to disinvest from until it had 
received his instruction to disinvest. And it was possible to request an illustration 
prior to moving the money to cash.
Our investigator looked specifically at whether there had been any delay in 
processing Mr Ms withdrawal request in December 2018. She noted that whilst the 
illustration failed to generate when requested on 17 December 2018, it was 
generated manually, the following day, and payment made within five working days, 
which she didnt consider unreasonable.
Overall, therefore she took the view that Aviva had treated Mr M fairly and had not 
caused him any financial loss. She said although Aviva did not provide documentation 
to confirm the process of making ad-hoc withdrawals, it is possible to contact Aviva to 
discuss the process, if it is not clear. So, she did not uphold his complaint.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his case to be referred 
to an ombudsman. He said, in summary:
there was nothing in Avivas terms and conditions that required him to 
disinvest and have the money in his cash fund before it would provide an 
illustration;
Aviva was required to act on his instructions and the only explicit requirement 
on him was to complete its on line form, which he did. But Aviva was imposing 
three conditions prior to allowing him to make the withdrawal, which were not in 
the contract or required by regulation;
he did not think that the FCA rule about providing an illustration was relevant 
in his situation;
there was nothing in the terms and conditions or the FCA rules which required 
him to disinvest before an illustration could be provided;
Aviva had tried to distinguish between regular payments and ad hoc 
payments, but the terms and conditions didnt make a distinction in this way;
the wording of the terms and conditions and Avivas Online Withdrawal 
Request Confirmation declaration hed had to sign were clear. It made it his 
responsibility to ensure he had enough money in his cash fund, and it allowed 
Aviva to cash in other funds to make the payment out. The wording said:
Please confirm the below declaration so we can carry out your instructions:
Its my responsibility to make sure theres enough money in my cash account to pay for the tax free cash and any further single payments I want to take out. I 
understand Aviva may not be able to complete my request if I dont have 
sufficient money in my cash account. Where there isnt enough money to cover 
my withdrawal or any charges, I authorise Aviva to sell sufficient assets in my 
account to cover the payment. If this happens Aviva will sell assets 
proportionally from my account unless instructed to sell assets from particular 
funds.
the process Aviva has put in place causes delay and has the potential to 
lead to financial loss.
In November 2020, I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint. I said I was 
minded to partially uphold it, and set out my reasons for being so minded. I invited both 
Mr M and Aviva to let me have any further information they wanted me to consider. 
Aviva didnt respond. Mr M made detailed representations and sent in further 
documentation. Ive summarised his further representations below:
the FCA rules referred to by Aviva and the investigator are not correct as these 
are not uncrystallised funds. The requirement is to be provided with a standard 
deterministic projection, which can be generic. If the projection could be given 
during the completion of the form, as many other companies do, then there 
would be no need for Mr M to be further involved further, and it would avoid the 
delay;
the ombudsman should tell Aviva that what it is doing is wrong and to stop it. 
How Aviva achieves that is up to it. He takes the view that the DISP rules dont 
prevent the ombudsman from requiring Aviva to stop. He says, otherwise, he 
will be left in the situation of having to bring repeated complaints about this to 
our service;
Mr Ms main complaint is about the extra intervention required by him, which 
leads to unnecessary delays. This inconveniences him as he has to take three 
steps to obtain payment, rather than one. And the delays lead to him being out 
of the market for longer;
Aviva is in breach of contract;
he does not claim that hes lost out financially here. What he wants to achieve 
is to prevent the risk of future loss, which is possible, if Aviva maintains this 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the additional representations made by Mr M in response 
to my provisional decision. I have also looked at all the additional documents he has sent 
in. In reaching my decision, I have taken everything hes said into account, even if I 
havent responded on every point in this decision. I have set out what I see as the key 
considerations.
Ive looked again at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy and the paperwork he was 
sent by Aviva to process his income withdrawal requests. The new documentation Mr M 
has supplied, shows he says, the process steps and screen shots of the questions he 
has to complete, to progress his application for a one off payment. I dont know if the 
screen shots Mr M wouldve seen at the time, were the same.Terms and conditions
At Section 16 of the terms and conditions it said this:
You can apply for Income Drawdown using the form that we provide for this purpose. 
We have the right to decline an application for Income Drawdown if accepting it would, 
in our opinion, limit or restrict in any way our ability to administer the Scheme.
Further on in section 16 it said:
If there is an insufficient balance in Your Cash Account to pay your income, We will 
automatically disinvest on Your behalf. If We need to do this We will sell across your 
Investment on a proportionate basis. This will have the effect of reducing the value of 
Your Investment. We will inform You if we need to do this. The minimum amount We will 
disinvest in these circumstances is £10.
We will not automatically disinvest from the following types of Investments:
If you are only invested in Funds that are in suspension, we will contact you 
to ask you to put money in your Cash Account to pay Your income.
If you do not put sufficient money into your Cash Account we will contact you 
again to ask you to do so. If you still fail to put the money in the Cash Account, 
then we will suspend the payment of income to you from Income Drawdown until 
such time as there are suitable funds in your Cash Account.
Ive also noted that the Online Withdrawal Request Confirmation that Mr M was asked 
to sign, similarly, it said that Aviva would proportionately disinvest across Mr Ms 
investments if there was insufficient money in his Cash Account to cover the 
withdrawal payment.
Cash Account
So, based on what Ive seen, I cant see why Aviva required Mr M to have enough 
money in his Cash Account, up front, before he could make a withdrawal request on line. 
The terms and conditions and the wording of the declaration Mr M was asked to sign 
appeared to particularly cater for the situation where there was insufficient money in his 
Cash Account.
The Online Withdrawal Request Confirmation highlighted the fact that Aviva may not be 
able to complete the request, if there was not enough money in the Cash Account. But, 
the declaration specifically authorised Aviva to sell assets proportionately from Mr Ms 
account to fund the withdrawal payment. 
So, as I see it, Avivas process prevented Mr M from making an on-line withdrawal 
application unless up front he had enough cash in his Cash Account. I dont consider this 
requirement to be in line with what Aviva told customers in writing about its withdrawal 
process. I therefore think Aviva has done something wrong, because it has not provided 
clear information about its requirements or acted in line with its stated terms and 
conditions.
Illustration
Mr M said that Aviva (and our investigator) had referred to the wrong rules from COBS, because his funds were crystallised, rather than uncrystallised. But he 
accepts for the first withdrawal, under COBS 14.2.1 (3B) he had to be provided 
with a key features illustration. 
In his latest response he submits that under COBS 14.2.1 (3E) for subsequent 
withdrawals, the business only had to provide such other information as is 
necessary for the client to understand the consequences of the request and 
where relevant, the information required by COBS 13 Annex 2.2.9R.
Mr M says that for the subequent withdrawals, the information shouldve been a 
standardised deterministic projection, which could be generalised, rather than 
specific. He says many other companies provide that generic information, 
during the completion of the withdrawal form, which Aviva could too. And this 
would avoid delay.
Mr M says COBS introduces the question of relevancy for subsquent 
withdrawals and that the information Aviva provides in its illustration is not 
relevant to him.
Further, in  his view, Aviva cannot reasonably believe that the illustration is 
required.
Avivas terms and conditions said that it had the right to decline an application for 
Income Drawdown if accepting it would, in our opinion, limit or restrict in any way our 
ability to administer the Scheme. I remain of the view that given Aviva took the view, 
in its opinion, that an illustration was required for regulatory purposes, I think it was 
entitled to decline an application until the illustration was issued. 
Its possible that Aviva may be wrong in its interpretation of COBS, and what it had to 
do as a result of that interpretation. And Mr M now challenges the fact that this view 
was reasonably held by Aviva at the time. But, at the time of events, I dont have 
enough to show that Aviva didnt reasonably hold this view. I cant see, for example, 
that it had been flagged up to Aviva specifically how it may be misinterpreting COBS, 
as Mr M has helpfully done now.
So, at the time of these events, and based on the opinion it had reached at that time, I 
think Aviva was entitled to decline an application until the illustration was issued, 
believing that was what COBS required.
Whether Mr Ms interpretation of COBS is correct or not, I cant require Aviva to 
change its process to align with what Mr M says other businesses are doing. Ive 
explained why below.
Acceptance of the illustration
As I see it, Mr Ms acceptance of the illustration, amounted to an instruction to make the 
withdrawal payment, after being provided with information which Aviva believed the 
regulator said he must be provided with to make an informed choice. Its possible that 
once a customer was provided with the illustration, they may not want to take the 
withdrawal payment after all.
Mr M says that the FCA does not require firms to obtain acceptance after the illustration 
is offered. So, as such, Aviva should not be requiring this, and it should do as most firms 
do, which is produce illustrations real-time as part of a single applications process. And, he says, Aviva should not require him to complete more than a single form, based on 
whats set out in its terms and conditions.
I remain of the view, that it was not inappropriate for Aviva to ask Mr M to say that he did 
still want to take the withdrawal payment, after seeing the illustration. He wasnt provided 
with the illustration/information real time, whilst completing a single form. So, it wouldnt 
have been evident to Aviva, that by continuing to complete that single form after being 
provided with the illustration/information, he had made an informed choice to proceed. He 
was provided with the illustration/information by Aviva at a later date. So, I dont consider 
that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably by requiring him to notify it of his instruction to 
proceed, following receipt of the illustration.
has Mr M lost out financially?
In my provisional decision, having concluded that Aviva did something wrong here, I 
went on to consider whether Mr M had lost out financially as a result. I provisionally 
concluded that he hadnt. Mr M said in his response, he was not saying he had lost 
out financally on these three occasions, but was trying to avoid the potential for this 
occuring in the future, if Aviva maintained its existing arrangements.
I havent been provided with information to show that Mr M suffered a financial loss in 
respect of these three income withdrawals.
Mr M said as a consequence of having to ensure the Cash Account had sufficient money 
in pre-illustration, there was the potential for financial loss. He said this could arise from 
the fund being out of the market longer, or him reaching a decision that he no longer 
wanted to proceed with the withdrawal having seen the illustration. I can see what Mr M is 
saying is entirely feasible. But, hes not sought to establish that here. I have also taken 
into account that, Mr M clearly intended to take these ad hoc income payments, in which 
case, either he or Aviva wouldve had to disinvest his funds shortly after the illustration 
was sent, to allow the withdrawal payment to be made. So, based on what I have seen, I 
cant see that Mr M has lost out financially because of Avivas actions. Accordingly, I make 
no award for financial loss.
trouble and upset
Ive considered whether Mr M has been caused any additional trouble and upset by 
Avivas on line process requiring the money to be in the Cash Account before an 
illustration was issued. 
As I see it, Mr M was prevented from making an on-line withdrawal application unless, up 
front, he had enough cash in his Cash Account. I dont consider this requirement to be in 
line with what Aviva told customers in writing about its withdrawal process. Aviva has 
done something wrong, because it has not provided clear information about its 
requirements or acted in line with its stated terms and conditions. Avivas process built in 
an extra process step to the on line process, beyond what Mr M was told to expect. 
Ive noted that Mr M became aware subsequently that he could contact Aviva for a what if 
illustration. But, this couldnt rectify the situation as an actual illustration wouldve still 
been required before payment could be made. 
I recognise this has caused Mr M some frustration, and that overall, this is likely to make 
the process longer and require Mr M to be involved on more occasions. I still consider 
£200 to be a fair and appropriate amount in the circumstances to address this. I see this 
award as being in line with other awards made by this service.I understand from Aviva and Mr M that there has been a change made to the on line 
process since Mr M brought his complaint to us. I am told it is now possible to accept the 
illustration online, rather than having to do it by email. However, Aviva still appears to 
require the money be held in cash up front and an illustration to be issued first. Ive noted 
this, but as this change was made after Mr M made the withdrawals here, it does not 
affect my view.
Mr M wants me to direct Aviva to stop doing what it has done wrong here. He does so, on 
the basis that, otherwise he is going to have to make repeated complaints about this to us. 
He says he has already made further income withdrawal requests, which have been 
processed in this way.
As our investigator explained, our remit does not extend to requiring businesses to change 
their business practices. Under DISP 3.7.11 R we may direct a business to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate. 
Our powers do not extend beyond the individual complainant. 
Mr M strongly believes that Aviva is misinterpreting COBS and the processes it has in 
place are not appropriate based on that, and its own terms and conditions. As put, this is a 
systemic issue, which not only affects Mr M, but other customers. Its a matter for Mr M to 
decide, therefore, whether he wants to raise his concerns with the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who can deal with systemic failures.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, and taking everything into account, I partially uphold Mr 
Ms complaint and order Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay him £200 for the 
trouble and upset he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman