DRN-3765940
The complaint
Mr V complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited didnt properly deal with
his claim under his caravan insurance policy
What happened
Mr Vs caravan was damaged due to water leakage in rainy weather in 2018. LV paid for a
garage to repair it. In 2021 the caravan leaked again in the same area and so Mr V
contacted LV again.
LV obtained inspection reports on the caravan which said that the garage repairs hadnt
been done properly. But LV declined Mr Vs claim. This was because they said that Mr V had
chosen the garage that did the repair work and so they were not responsible for the quality
of that garages work. Mr V was also unhappy that LV hadnt kept him updated about the
claim, and they took too long. LV offered Mr V compensation of £250 for delays in dealing
with the matter. 
Mrs V brought a complaint to us on her husbands behalf and was involved in the matter
herself, so for ease Ive mainly referred to her throughout rather than to Mr V, the
policyholder.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that LV
hadnt acted unfairly and that their compensation offer was reasonable. Mr V didnt agree
and so I was asked to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 7 October. Both LV and 
Mrs V replied to that. Ive dealt with their comments below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
LV had the caravan inspected by their loss adjusters. They thought the garage hadnt done
the repair properly. LV also had an independent assessor inspect and report on the caravan.
They too said the repairer hadnt repaired it properly. However by then the repairer had
ceased trading. 
Mr V wanted LV to fix the caravan, but LV declined to deal with the matter. They said that
they werent responsible for that garages work because it wasnt one of their approved
repairers. They said that Mr V had chosen it herself and Mr V had afterwards signed
something confirming that the repairs were satisfactory.
LV had authorised their agents to deal with Mr Vs claim in 2018. Mrs V said that LVs agents  
didnt give her any option to use LVs repairers; they didnt offer that. Instead they just told
her to get her own repair quote, and so although she did choose the garage it was only
because she didnt know any different. And she said she and Mr V didnt know if the work
was satisfactory but relied on it looking alright and having no reason to think otherwise. She
said that the poor repair only became apparent later when the caravan started to leak again
in the same place.
She also felt that LV had led her at first to expect that they would cover the repairs and they
should stick to that. However Ive not seen anything to suggest that LV did agree to that
early on, and I think it was reasonable of them to have the caravan inspected as they did. So
I think that the £250 theyve offered for their accepted delay and lack of communication in
delaying with the matter is reasonable.
I think its clear from LVs reports that the original garage repairs were not done properly
However, although Ive seen LVs files, I havent seen anything to persuade me that LV gave
Mr V the option of using their approved repairers and he chose not to. So I dont think that
its fair for LV to have refused to deal with the matter of the garages poor repairs. And so I
think that they should reconsider their decision not to pay for remedial repairs. 
Mrs V responded to my provisional decision. She felt that LV had led her to believe that they 
would pay for the repairs. 
LV responded to repeat that they should not be held responsible for repairs done by a third 
party appointed by a customer. They said that the policy allowed them to settle in this way 
and didnt make them liable for any poor works for suppliers appointed by the customer.
But Ive looked at LVs policy, and its silent on those issues. It doesnt say who may appoint 
repairers, or that whoever appoints them is responsible for the quality of the repairers work. 
The little it does say about instructing repairs suggests that LV want to be in control of that. 
For example, a general condition of the policy requires that You or any other person must 
not, without our permission: make your own arrangements for repair or replacement, other 
than where the cost of repair to the Caravan is less than £250. 
Further, as I explained above, LV havent shown persuasive evidence that they or their 
agents gave Mr V any choice between LV s garage doing the repair or a garage of his 
choice doing it. Mrs V said that LVs agents just told them what garage to get a quote from, 
and they didnt choose that garage. And LV also havent shown that they or their agents 
made Mr V aware that they considered him to have chosen the garage and so he, and not 
LV, would be responsible for the quality of that garages repairs. So I dont think that LV have 
acted reasonably in dealing with his claim.
Putting things right
I think that LV should reconsider their decision and they should pay for remedial works 
required as a result of the previous poor repair.
.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint.
 
I to require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to reconsider Mr Vs claim for the 
repairs to his caravan and pay for rectification work to the caravan necessary due to any 
poor repair done under the earlier claim to them. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
