DRN-3683830
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D are unhappy with the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
surrounding their attempt to transfer money from their Santander account to their son.
What happened
Mrs and Mr D attempted to transfer £9,000 to their son. The payment was blocked by 
Santanders fraud prevention system and Mrs and Mr D received an automated call from 
Santander asking them to hold while they were transferred to the fraud team so that they 
could verify the payment request. 
Mrs and Mr D remained on hold without being connected to a fraud team member for 15 
minutes, at which time they ended the call and attempted to contact Santander via a secure 
messaging system  which they then discovered was no longer in use. Mrs and Mr D then 
telephoned a general number for Santander and were again put in queue to speak with the 
fraud team. However, this call also went unanswered, and after approximately another 15 
minutes on hold, Mrs and Mr D told the Santander agent who was transferring their call that 
the fraud team should call them back. Santanders fraud team did later call Mrs and Mr D, at 
which time the requested transfer was authorised. 
Mrs and Mr D werent happy about the service they received from Santander, including the 
long hold times and that Santander had deleted their son as a payee on their account, 
meaning theyd had to re-add him as a payee that morning, and which they suspected 
contributed to the transfer being flagged as potential fraud. So, they raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs and Mr Ds complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by 
requiring the payment to be confirmed by Mrs and Mr D, and they also noted that there can 
be times when their fraud team is very busy handling other calls. As such, Santander didnt 
uphold Mrs and Mr Ds complaint, but they did offer to make a payment of £25 to Mrs and Mr 
D as a gesture of goodwill for the time theyd spent holding on the telephone. Mrs and Mr D 
werent satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how Mrs and Mr D may have been upset that their attempted transfer was 
flagged for further checks by Santander. However, business such as Santander have an 
obligation to protect their customers money where possible, and the use of fraud prevention 
systems  such as the system that flagged the transfer in question  are commonly 
employed by banks and other financial institutions as part of their protective measures.
Notably, in this particular instance, the transfer amount requested was unusually high. And 
as such I dont feel that Santander should be censured in any way for requiring a 
confirmation from Mrs and Mr D that the transfer had been legitimately requested by them. 
Im aware that Mrs and Mr D feel that the reason the transfer was flagged may have been 
because they had to re-add their son as a payee on their account, and theyve asked why 
Santander deleted their son as a payee in the first instance. Santander have confirmed that 
its their policy to automatically delete payees that arent used for more than 18 months, and 
this policy doesnt seem unreasonable or unfair to me. 
Additionally, I dont feel that Mrs and Mr D having to re-add their son as a payee was likely a 
significant contributing factor as to why they payment was flagged for further checks. 
Instead, I feel that the unusually high transfer amount is more likely to have been of greater 
significance here, and consequently I also feel that there was a strong possibility that the 
transfer would have been flagged even if Mrs and Mr D hadnt needed to re-add their son as 
a payee when instructing it.
Mrs and Mr D are also unhappy at the time it took for them to be able to speak with 
Santander. But as explained above, I feel it was reasonable for Santander, in the interests of 
protecting Mrs and Mr Ds money, to have needed to speak with them so that they could 
confirm the legitimacy of the transfer request. And while I can appreciate Mrs and Mr D's 
frustration at having to wait on hold until a member of Santanders fraud team became 
available, it unfortunately can be the case that a high number of inbound calls can mean its 
not always possible for a customer to be quickly connected to a specific team.
Additionally, it must be acknowledged that Santander did contact Mrs and Mr D about the 
held transfer, but that Mrs and Mr D terminated that call before they were connected to a 
member of the fraud team. And again, while I can appreciate Mrs and Mr Ds frustration at 
the long hold time, its difficult not to conclude that if they had continued to hold on that call 
then their call would in all likelihood have been answered, and the matter resolved, in a 
much shorter time, and with less frustration for Mrs and Mr D than ended up being the case.
Mrs and Mr D have stated that they feel Santander didnt have sufficient resources allocated 
to their fraud team to fairly meet their needs on the day in question. But this service isnt a 
regulatory body, and so it isnt within the remit of this service to comment on how a business 
resources a specific department. Instead, the remit of this service is focussed on whether a 
fair outcome is considered to have occurred within the specific circumstances of a complaint.
In this instance, I feel it was fair for Santander to require confirmation from Mrs and Mr D that 
the transfer request had come from them. And, while I accept that Mrs and Mr D were 
inconvenienced by having to contact Santander to confirm the transfer, I feel that a degree of 
inconvenience in circumstances such as these is unfortunately necessary, and that in this 
specific instance it doesnt constitute an unfair outcome. And this is especially the case given 
that Mrs and Mr D terminated the call received from Santander as explained above.
It follows from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to 
take any further action here. Im aware that Santander have offered to pay Mrs and Mr D £25 
as a goodwill gesture. But given that Im not upholding this complaint I leave it to 
Santanders discretion as to whether that offer remains in place. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs and Mr D were wanting here, but I hope that theyll 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman