DRN-4252148
The complaint
Mr M complains a credit for £400,000 to his account with Metro Bank PLC (Metro) went 
missing.
What happened
Mr M was a beneficiary under his late fathers will. Following the sale of his late fathers
home, £400,000 was sent by CHAPS to Mr Ms account with Metro on 12 August 2022. It
was sent by the executor from an account with another bank. The payment was rejected by
Metro due to due diligence checks. It was credited to Mr Ms account on 5 September 2022.
Mr M complained. He called Metro several times and got different messages each time
about what had happened. He was told it was an international payment (which it wasnt); he
was told to get the remitting bank to recall the payment  but that bank said no funds had
been returned to them; he was promised a call back which didnt happen; and he lodged
three complaints with Metro which werent immediately actioned. He suffered a great deal of
worry and stress  as it appeared that a large sum of money had gone missing. This came
after the sad and recent death of both his parents. He made a Data Subject Access Request
(DSAR) which didnt include all the information about the incident.
Metro apologised for the poor service he received and paid compensation of £75. On the
calls, Mr M wasnt given the information needed. The payment wouldve been sent back on
18 August 2022, but Mr M hadnt been advised of that. When Mr M was told the payment
was an international one, that was an error. Metro said the call back shouldve taken place
but didnt. The reason the payment was rejected was due to a beneficiary mismatch.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Metro should pay another £675 in
compensation. Metro had rejected the payment due to a beneficiary mismatch. The
payment was returned on 13 August 2022 and sent back through Metros intermediary bank
(which Metro uses for clearing payments). What happened then isnt clear  our investigator
asked for more information as to where the money was in the interim  whether it was being
held by the intermediary bank, or whether it had been sent back to the sending bank. But 
Metro hadnt told us. Metro did say that they shouldnt have rejected the payment in the first
place, and this was a mistake. Mr M was given wrong, or incomplete information when he
called. She considered the personal impact on Mr M had been significant. She thought the
money had been lost and couldnt find out what had happened. Mr M also said a property
purchase fell through as he couldnt provide proof of funds.
On the DSAR, our investigator said it appeared that the information had been sent to Mr M 
but the actual content of it was a matter for Mr M to take up with the Information
Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr M didnt agree with the recommended outcome. He said:
He got mixed messages from Metro as the reason for the rejected payment and
wanted to know why it was so rejected.
Metro had already received payments from the same executors account and so
should not have rejected the credit of £400,000.
Metro didnt handle his complaint in a timely way.
Metro had failed to meet its obligations to report the facts to our service. Metro
should be reported to the Financial Conduct Authority for this and for not dealing with
him appropriately.
Metros response to the DSAR didnt address the information needed about his
complaint.
Metro should pay interest on the funds held.
A house purchase fell through as an agreement in principle couldnt be obtained in
time following the acceptance of an offer on a property. There was a knock-on effect
of finding other accommodation and the loss of a school place for one of his children.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Let me say  we are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair
decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial business. We dont
exist to punish firms. Nor are we the regulator of Metro  thats the role of the FCA. So it
isnt my role, or that of our service to report Metro to the FCA based on Mr Ms individual
complaint.
When Mr M first called Metro on 16 August 2022, (I listened to the call), he was advised that
the payment had been returned to the sending bank because the input details were
incorrect. The call handler said this was probably because the wrong name was entered by
the sender (the executor).
During our investigation, Metro said that they shouldnt have rejected the payment for that
reason  they said the payment was sent to Mr Ms account and described him as having a
christian name and surname. But in Metros records, theyd recorded his name with his two
middle names as well. So  there was a mismatch. But Metro have said that the payment 
shouldnt have been rejected for that reason. So  if that hadnt happened, none of what
followed wouldve taken place.
Mr M has argued that the payment shouldnt have been stopped because previous credits
had been received from the same source. But  all firms, including Metro, have a
responsibility to conduct due diligence on payments to prevent financial crime. And  given
the amount of the credit, I think Metro were entitled to make the decision to return the
payment if they wished. That said, Metro have admitted they shouldnt have returned it for
the reasons they did.
On the call, Mr M was asked to contact the sending bank and ask for a recall of the
payment. I cant understand why he was told that  as Im unsure if that was possible. I
suspect Metro meant to say  ask the sending bank to trace the payment, which was a
different process.
I listened to a further two calls which took place on 25 August 2022 and 30 August 2022. Mr
M said the sending bank had not received the money back, and therefore couldnt recall it.
Mr M was told the payment had been sent back to the sending bank; that it was an
international payment; and that he would get a call back. But  it wasnt an international
payment, and the call back didnt take place.
Therefore  from 13 August 2022 and 5 September 2022, Mr M was left without any
knowledge of where the money was  and as he has said, it was a large sum to go missing.
He was given the wrong, or conflicting information on the calls. I accept that where anintermediary bank is involved, Metro needed to find out what happened by going back
through that bank  and that can be difficult to do. But  that shouldnt be a reason for Mr M
to receive poor service here.
We asked Metro several questions as to where the money was between 13 August 2022
and 5 September 2022. And in summary, there arent any clear answers. Therefore, Im
persuaded that on the balance of evidence, its more likely than not that the money was with
Metro all, or most of the time. Therefore, I think it is reasonable that Metro pay interest on
the money for the period in question. I looked at savings rates available at the time  and its
reasonable to say that Mr M couldve invested the money in an online instant access
account at a rate of 2% p.a. - for 24 days. That wouldve paid £526. So  Metro should pay
that to Mr M.
Ive gone on to consider the further points that Mr M has made. In general, our service
doesnt award payment for consequential loss  where the knock-on effect is too far
removed from the event. Mr M says he couldnt get an agreement in principle (AIP) for a
house purchase because of what happened. But  I think it is reasonable to say that such an
AIP can fail on many factors taken into account by lenders, and not just on the one quoted
by Mr M. These may be  loan to valuation ratios, salary multiples etc. And an AIP is only an
indication of a lenders appetite to lend the money  it isnt a formal mortgage offer. And
therefore, whether the failed AIP eventually led to the failed purchase cannot be
demonstrated with confidence. So  I dismiss this part of the claim.
On the matter of the DSAR, I can see that Metro did provide it within 30 days of Mr Ms
request - which they are required to do. Beyond that, it isnt our responsibility to ensure
whether, or not, the content of the DSAR is appropriate. That is the responsibility of the ICO,
and Mr M must approach the ICO if he wishes.
Mr M argues that his complaint wasnt lodged or dealt with quickly enough  but Metros final
response was sent to him on 1 September 2022, which is prompt. So - on balance, Im
satisfied it was handled in the time we would expect to see.
Our investigator recommended the payment of compensation of another £675, taking the
total payment to £750. This is very much at the top end of what we would normally see for
what happened. However, in this case  especially given the amount of money involved and
the impact on Mr M as a result  I think this is justified.
The criteria for deciding awards is set out at:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience
The package of compensation and interest is now commensurate for what happened. But
equally, it is at the higher end of what we would normally see  I say this to manage Mr Ms
expectations of seeking further redress.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Metro had nothing more to add. Mr M responded and accepted the findings to a point. But - 
he went on to further argue that the house purchase fell through because of the delay in the 
credit. He attached letters from the estate agent dealing with the transaction, which I looked 
at. He asked how Metro could be reported for what happened.I didnt consider the evidence showed that the house purchase fell through because of the 
error by Metro. I asked Mr M to provide further evidence, which would need to show that the 
delay in receipt of funds was the sole reason for what happened. Mr M didnt provide this. 
We emailed Mr M separately about his second point about Metro.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Metro had no comments, and Mr M didnt provide the evidence of further impact, my final 
decision is unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC must:
Pay compensation of £675 for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the 
£75 paid by Metro.
Pay interest on the money involved - £400,000 at 2% per annum for 24 days. This is 
£526. Mr M should consider whether this is subject to payment of tax in accordance 
with HMRC rules.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman