DRN-3933259
The complaint
Ms P complains about a claim she made on her home emergency policy with Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Aviva are the underwriters (the insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Aviva have accepted they are accountable for the 
actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of their 
appointed agents.
Ms Ps complaint has been brought to our Service by a representative. In my decision Ill 
only refer to Ms P  as she was the policy holder.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms P and Aviva. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Ms P had a home emergency insurance policy with Aviva. She tried to claim under her policy 
for a suspected pest problem behind her fire place in July 2022. Aviva said theyd need to 
gain access to the potential problem by removing the fire place (by breaking it) or for a 
camera to be passed down the chimney. Investigative work for pest emergencies wasnt 
something covered under his policy. 
Ms P didnt want the fireplace damaged as it was expensive and had only recently been 
fitted. Aviva suggested Ms P speak to her home insurer about claiming against that policy or 
to try an independent engineer and get back in touch with them. 
As this was a claim they couldnt take further, Aviva refunded the policy excess paid, but Ms 
P remained dissatisfied and raised a complaint. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint and Ms P 
referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator most recently didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld and as Ms P didnt accept their recommendations - 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Its clear that Ms P is disappointed at Avivas response to her claim here. But, for context this 
type of home emergency policy will generally only respond in this type of situation by 
providing poison, traps or removal of certain pests - and not access to identify what those 
pests are.  
Have Aviva fairly considered and responded to the claim  inline with the policy terms?
The starting point with any insurance claim is that the policy holder has to (within reason) be 
able to sufficiently show that a loss has occurred that is covered under their policy. Should 
they do that, the onus is then on the insurer to fairly consider the claim and decide whether 
the policy needs to respond or not.
Aviva have said any scenario where the policy holder cant confirm that type of pest is 
causing the problem isnt covered. This is in line with the policy terms. In this complaint,    
Ms P was unable to tell Aviva what type of pest she was making a claim for as - she was 
unable to see behind the fireplace. This is important as the policy only covered specific types 
of pests, for example - certain rats, certain mice, wasps and hornets.
I appreciate Ms Ps recent comments that the Aviva agent they spoke to initially didnt 
mention this. This is disappointing. Ive listened to that call and the agent refers throughout 
to rodents as the potential pest, but the main part of the conversation is about whether or 
not damage to the fire was covered or not under the policy. 
Ive also considered the screenshots from a chat with Avivas agents here and I dont find 
Ms Ps suggestion that Aviva said in those chats the pest didnt need to be known. 
I say this because Ms P asks: as we didnt know at the time what it was behind there. 
Would this effected us making a claim [sic]. The agent responded: We would accept your 
claim however if the issue is not covered, then the claim would be cancelled. Aviva are 
entitled to accept any claim and then fairly consider it - which theyve later done here. 
Ive then considered if this has made a difference to the end result here (the claim being 
declined) and I dont think it has. I say this because this policy doesnt cover investigative 
work to identify what pest was causing the problem and, even though it wasnt made clear to 
Ms P that she needed to know what the pest was, she wouldnt have been able to know 
what the pest was without the camera investigation (or brick work removal)  and this wasnt 
something covered under the policy. 
Ive also kept in mind that even in a scenario where the type of pest was known, it may still 
not have been covered. For example Aviva have referred to a scenario where a bird could 
have went down the chimney and become stuck  this is an example of a type of pest not 
covered under the policy. Similarly, in the second call with Aviva, Ms P makes a suggestion 
that it could be a squirrel  which also wouldnt be covered under this policy. Whilst Ive got 
sympathy for Ms P as the pest wasnt visible, the investigative work required here (a camera 
down the chimney or removing brickwork) isnt something that was covered under this policy. 
Ive also noted in the second call with Aviva, a discussion took place about Ms P getting the 
investigative (camera) work carried out by a third party and then being reimbursed by Aviva. 
The agent was very clear that they werent making any promises that Ms P would be 
reimbursed, but they would consider any costs. This wouldve been outside of the policy 
terms. Ive seen no evidence that Ms P did return to Aviva shortly afterwards with any third 
party quotes for the work.
Ive also considered that even in a scenario where it was established that the pest was one 
covered under the policy - the problem remained that Ms P didnt want her new fire place 
removed or damaged  so the issue of access would remain and this policy wouldnt cover 
any repair or reinstatement works needed.
Ms P has since told us that she believes the pest has since died and may have damaged 
wiring behind the fire. But this policy doesnt cover damage caused by a pest. Overall, I find that Aviva have fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms and I 
dont uphold this complaint. Refunding the policy excess and advising Ms P to contact her 
home insurer was fair and reasonable here.
My decision will disappoint Ms P, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this dispute between her and Aviva. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman