DRN-3787358
The complaint
Mr P has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc (trading as Zenith Insurance) (West Bay) 
has rejected his claim for dental treatment for his dog.
What happened
Mr Ps pet dog, who Ill refer to as B, was insured by West Bay. On 19 September 2021, B 
sustained an injury to his face when he ran into an abandoned and concealed shopping 
trolley. Bs face began to swell up and two weeks later Mr P took him to the vet and says he 
explained what had happened. The vet found that B had a broken tooth which had become 
infected. Mr B claimed for the £595 cost of Bs treatment. 
West Bay contacted Bs veterinary practice for information about Bs medical history. A vet 
confirmed that B had a malar abscess caused by dental disease. Its response was as 
follows:
Upon speaking to the treating veterinarian, [Vet L] has confirmed that the dental needed 
to be done due to a malar abscess. [Vet L ] confirmed this was due to dental disease.
West Bay said that although it could understand Mr Ps frustration, it considered that his 
claim had been assessed correctly in line with the policy terms based on the information 
provided by Bs vet. It referred Mr P to the following policy wording:
Exclusions
The following are excluded from cover:
Any dental or gum Treatment will be excluded, unless required as a direct result of an 
Accident or Injury to Your Pet and limited to the Benefit Limit. Please note any routine, 
preventative or cosmetic dental or gum Treatment; or scaling and polishing teeth will not 
be covered;
Mr P wasnt satisfied with West Bays response to his complaint and brought it to this 
service.
Our investigators initial view was that West Bay had assessed Mr Ps claim correctly as 
information received from Vet L was that the cause of the treatment claimed for was dental 
disease, cover for which is excluded for by the policy.
Mr P was advised that if he didnt agree with this view he needed to provide evidence from 
the vet which explained that the dental treatment claimed for wasnt required because of 
dental disease i.e. that it was caused by an accident, as dental treatment is covered if it is as 
a direct result of an accident or injury.
In response to this view, Mr P provided further information. B had been treated twice. Hed 
initially been treated by Vet H on 4 October 2021 for his broken tooth and infection 
approximately 2 weeks following his accident. It was Mr Ps claim for this treatment that had 
been rejected by West Bay.
On 10 November 2021 B required further dental treatment, and this was the treatment 
provided by Vet L whod provided the initial response to West Bays request for information.
Mr P provided a statement from Vet H on 28 September 2022 which stated:
When [B] was seen on 1/10/21, the owner reported he had had a fluctuating swelling 
in the area of the right cheek for weeks following trauma.
In my opinion this could have been responsible for the damage to the teeth that were 
broken and infected, and hence removed on 4/10/21 and 15/11/21.
In the light of this new information, our investigator issued a revised view upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. His view was that as Vet H has stated that the dental work claimed for couldve 
been as a result of trauma, he was unable to say that West Bay has acted fairly in declining 
Mr Ps claim. He said that in order for West Bay to repudiate Mr Ps claim, it needed  to 
demonstrate that the dental treatment claimed for wasnt related to an injury or accident, in 
accordance with the policy terms.
West Bay doesnt agree with our investigators revised view. It expressed a concern about 
the accuracy of Vet Hs account as the reference to B having suffered trauma doesnt appear 
in her contemporaneous notes and is only made a year later. Its asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. It therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
I have to consider whether West Bay has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ps 
claim. Its done so on the ground that the policy only covers dental treatment if its required 
as a direct result of an accident or injury, and its view is that it wasnt.
Ive taken account of West Bays concern as to the accuracy of Vet Hs account which was 
provided a year after shed treated Bs broken tooth. In this account she refers to B having 
sustained a trauma, but there was no reference to trauma in her contemporaneous notes 
about how the injury to Bs face occurred. She does however refer to B having a broken 
tooth, which is something that could lead to infection and to an abscess.
Ive considered the two possible causes for the need for B to receive dental treatment. One 
possibility is that it followed from the injury he received two weeks earlier when he collided 
with the discarded trolley. The other is that he was suffering from dental disease. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ps account of how B suffered his injury, or that this resulted in his 
face swelling which prompted the visit to the vet. Nor do I have any reason to doubt that Mr 
P explained to the vet how Bs accident had occurred. Whilst Vet Hs contemporaneous 
record doesnt specifically mention the accident, it does mention Bs broken tooth. It doesnt 
mention B suffering from any dental disease which might otherwise have contributed to an 
infected tooth.  
Ive looked at Bs previous medical history and theres no record at health checks of him 
showing evidence of any dental issues other than a note of the presence of tartar on 13 April 
2021 and a reference at the time of Bs treatment by Vet H to an assessment of the health of Bs teeth to help slow down dental disease and a recommendation for a structured dental 
hygiene programme. This couldve been purely precautionary.
I consider it more likely than not that B sustained his broken tooth in the incident that Mr P 
describes. If this resulted in infection, which resulted in the need for the tooths removal, I 
consider the accident to be the direct cause. But for the accident, the tooth wouldnt have 
broken and the infection that needed to be treated wouldnt have occurred.
I also cant ignore what Vet H has said in her statement of 28 September 2022 and I have no 
reason to doubt her integrity. Its quite  possible that when asked to provide a comment on 
Bs treatment a year later she remembered the circumstances of the accident as a collision 
with a shopping trolly is noteworthy. Or she may have been reminded of the circumstances 
when she completed her part of Mr Ps claim form.
Regarding the treatment provided by Vet L over four weeks later, so far as Im aware Mr P 
hasnt claimed for this. West Bay therefore hasnt been required to consider any such claim. 
It therefore isnt a matter upon which Im able to comment.
My conclusion is that the treatment provided by Vet H  is more likely than not to be a direct 
result of Bs accident and therefor covered by Mr Ps policy, and that West Bay should settle 
his claim subject to any other terms of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.
I require West Bay Insurance Plc (trading as Zenith Insurance):
1. to reimburse to Mr P the cost of the treatment provided by Vet H subject to any other 
terms of his policy;
2. to pay Mr P interest on the sum so paid at the simple rate of 8% from the date he 
paid the vet to the date payment is made to him;
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman