DRN-2630632
The complaint
Mrs G complains Studio Retail Limited (Studio) acted unfairly by refusing to refund the cost 
of a wardrobe she purchased under a running-account credit facility.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ive summarised events. 
Mrs G purchased a wardrobe through a Studio credit account. Due to renovations, 
this wasnt assembled until several months after. She says she then discovered a 
problem with the drawers and said it was too small for standard sized coat hangers. 
Mrs G says she tried unsuccessfully to contact Studio by phone in some months 
after. Further to this she submitted an online form outlining the issues. Studio initially 
engaged with Mrs G to obtain evidence of the problems and discussed it with her. 
Studio then sent Mrs G its final response saying she had taken nine months since the 
product was dispatched to notify it of her concerns, so it wouldnt give her a refund. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to our service and our investigator upheld the case, 
saying the wardrobe wasnt fit for purpose and Studio should provide a refund and 
£75 compensation. 
Studio didnt agree so the case was been passed to me. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 8 February 2021 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
In summary I found the wardrobes inability to hold standard size coat hangers wasnt 
enough to say it wasnt fit for purpose. And I wasnt persuaded the drawers of the 
wardrobe coming off a runner was enough to say it wasnt fit for purpose. 
Studio replied to say it agreed. But Ms G didnt agree and provided further detail of 
the problems with the drawers, including one side not staying closed in addition to 
issue with the runners. She felt the goods shouldve lasted longer than five months. 
I considered Ms Gs points carefully and put my thoughts to Studio. I said I wouldnt 
have expected the issues described to arise within such a short period of time. And I 
asked Studio to provide evidence and reasoning to support its conclusion why the 
drawers were of satisfactory quality in light of the multiple faults described.
In the absence of any evidence to support its decision, I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint in line with our investigators previous view. 
I gave Studio until 24 February 2021 to provide any further evidence or reasoning. This date 
has now passed and Studio hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Studio provided nothing further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
most recent provisional thoughts to Studio. So Im upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint. Studio Retail Limited must:
Refund Mrs G for the cost of the wardrobe; and
Pay Mrs G £75 in compensation.
If Studio intends to collect the wardrobe from Mrs G, it must inform of her of this within a 
month of her accepting this decision. If it does not, then it will be for Mrs G to dispose of. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman