DRN-2802220
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mrs and Mr P have; the loan is administered by 
Acenden Limited on behalf of the lender. Mrs and Mr P say Acenden has failed to provide 
all of the information the law requires it to in annual statements.
  
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for the following 
reasons.
This is not a new subject. This service has dealt with many complaints about annual 
statements that dont include all of the information they should, and our position is 
well-established.
Mrs and Mr Ps loan is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). The Act 
requires certain information to be provided to borrowers in a particular format. It has come to 
light that Acenden didnt comply fully with the requirements in statement issued in 2014, 
2015 and 2016 inclusive, with the result that section 77A(6) of the Act applies. This section 
says that the debtor shall have no liability to pay any sum of interest to the extent calculated 
by reference to the period of non-compliance.
Ive thought about what Acenden says in its defence, but dont find that it helps. The 
requirement is that the information be provided in the statements. Omitting it from the 
statement is a breach of the Act, and directing the consumer to where it can be found 
elsewhere instead doesnt repair that breach.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Acenden 
Limited to refund all interest charged on Mrs and Mr Ps loan account during the period 
covered by the 2014, 2015 and 2016 statements which were non-compliant for reasons of 
not identifying the amount of credit provided or setting out the interest rate applicable.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman