DRN-3654809
The complaint
Mr Z complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his account and loaded a fraud marker 
against his name. Hed like the fraud marker removed and compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Mr Z had a personal account with HSBC. Hes also the director of a limited company Ill call 
F. 
On 4 July 2021 HSBC restricted Mr Zs access to his account.
 
On 5 July 2021 HSBC issued Mr Z with a letter advising him his account would be closed. 
The bank also decided to load a negative fraud marker against Mr Z on the national fraud 
database. 
Mr Z complained to HSBC about their decision to restrict access to his funds, close his 
account and load a fraud marker. HSBC looked into Mr Zs complaint but didnt uphold it  
they thought theyd acted fairly in closing his account, and restricting access to his funds.
Between 30 July 2021 and 20 August 2021 HSBC gradually released Mr Zs funds to him. 
Prior to this Mr Z made several attempts to contact HSBC regarding his inability to access 
his funds. He explained that this caused him severe distress and he wouldnt be able to 
make his mortgage payments. 
Mr Z wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response to his complaint, so complained to our service.  
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. They thought our service didnt have the 
power to look into the fraud marker, because this was loaded due to Mr Zs role as a director 
of F. And they thought HSBC had acted fairly in closing Mr Zs account  but they should 
have released his funds sooner. They thought HSBC should pay Mr Z £150. 
HSBC agreed, but Mr Z didnt. 
As Mr Z didnt agree, its been passed to me for a decision.
After reviewing Mr Zs case I reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I 
explained to HSBC that I thought Mr Zs funds should have been released within seven days 
of HSBCs decision to close his account. And I thought that Mr Z lost the opportunity to use 
his funds and HSBC should therefore pay Mr Z 8% on the funds from 12 July 2021 to the 
date the funds were released. Along with £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
I gave HSBC until 10 September 2022 for any further comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud marker
Mr Zs complaint is in two parts  and Ill look at the element our investigator thought we 
couldnt consider first. Im afraid that Im satisfied our investigator reached the right 
conclusion here, namely that our service doesnt have the power to consider this part of 
Mr Zs complaint. Our service can only consider complaints from eligible complainants. 
Firstly to be an eligible complainant usually a complaint needs to arise from something that 
the business did or didnt do to Mr Z  however the fraud marker was loaded because of 
something which occurred on Fs account. Secondly, an eligible complainant is someone 
who isnt carrying out activity relating to their work or business  and Mr Zs complaint about 
the fraud marker has come about because of his role as a director of F. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr Z but for the reasons Ive outlined above I dont have the 
power to consider his complaint about the fraud marker. 
Account closure and funds restriction:
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Zs account  specifically section 23. HSBC are 
entitled to close any account by providing 60 days notice, but to close an account with less 
notice than this theyll need to meet the specific terms listed for immediate closure. I realise 
this will disappoint Mr Z but having reviewed these terms Im satisfied theyve done so. 
Although HSBC made the decision to close Mr Zs account on 5 July 2021 they didnt fully 
release his funds until 20 August 2021. Ive reviewed the case notes provided by HSBC, and 
accept that a certain amount of time to review Mr Zs account was required before releasing 
his funds. However, Ive not seen evidence which explains the length of time HSBC took to 
release Mr Zs funds  with some funds taking over six weeks to be released to him. I think 
Mr Zs funds should have been released much sooner  and within seven days of HSBCs 
decision to close his account. 
Mr Z hasnt provided any additional evidence to our service to demonstrate the impact on 
him. But Im satisfied this likely caused Mr Z significant distress and anxiety  with the first 
set of funds not being released to him until 30 July 2021.
Putting things right
Mr Zs funds should have been released within seven days of HSBCs decision to close his 
account. Im satisfied that Mr Z consequently lost the opportunity to use his funds and HSBC 
should therefore pay Mr Z 8% from 12 July 2021 to the date the funds were released. 
In addition I think HSBC should pay Mr Z £150 compensation for the stress and anxiety 
caused to him.  
My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay 8% interest on the funds in Mr Zs account from 12 July 2021 to the date of 
release
Pay Mr Z £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2022.
 
Jeff BurchOmbudsman