DRN-3418429
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as H, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated it unfairly by 
refusing to treat a lump sum payment made towards its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) as part of 
its regular monthly payment.
In bringing this complaint H is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr B.
 
What happened
 H took out a £50,000 BBL with HSBC in May 2020. 
H wasnt required to start making repayments to the loan until 12 months after it was drawn 
down. Ahead of this, in February 2021, HSBC contacted Mr B to say they did not hold a valid 
direct debit mandate from H and enclosed a new mandate form for him to complete and 
return to the bank. The form was not returned as requested.  
Hs first payment of £887.37 towards the BBL was due on 9 June 2021. However, a few 
days earlier  on 4 June - H made a payment of £10,000. 
Unable to collect Hs first payment on 9 June 2021 because there was still no valid direct 
debit in place, HSBC contacted H the following day to say its BBL was now in arrears. HSBC 
reported the missed payment to credit reference agencies. 
Although H offered to set up a valid direct debit in time for the next payment in July 2021, 
nonetheless it believed its 4 June payment should be considered as having included its 
contractual payment for that month. HSBC didnt agree and correspondence between H and 
HSBC then ensued on the matter. 
HSBC maintained their position that they hadnt received Hs first contractual payment for 
June 2021, which meant H hadnt met its obligation. HSBC also said the £10,000 that H had 
paid on 4 June was an ad-hoc payment and therefore the £887.37 that was due on 9 June 
by way of the direct debit remained outstanding. 
Nonetheless, in recognition of Hs £10,000 payment, HSBC agreed and later did arrange the 
removal of the negative marker that was placed on Hs credit file.  
In July 2021 H repaid the BBL. But it remained unhappy about the position HSBC had taken 
on the matter. So, Mr B referred Hs complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. She said the agreement 
required H to set up a direct debit to pay the BBL and believed it had a responsibility to 
comply with the terms, and ensure it made monthly repayments on the due dates. She didnt 
think HSBCs treatment of the lump sum payment was wrong and thought HSBC had acted 
reasonably in applying its usual policy - which was not to treat overpayments as normal 
contractual monthly payments. 
She concluded overall that since the adverse credit marker had been removed from Hs 
credit file and having now repaid the BBL, it has been put in the best position it could hope to 
be in.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to review 
Hs case. I summarise what I consider Mr Bs key arguments: 
Under its agreement with HSBC, there was no requirement to repay the BBL by 
direct debit. Having a direct debit mandate in place was only a condition for the 
drawdown of the loan rather than its repayment. HSBC allowed the drawdown of the 
loan because all the required conditions were met. 
Hs repayment obligation for June 2021 was discharged three business days before it 
was due. H made a larger repayment, not a 'prepayment' or 'overpayment' as has 
been suggested. 
HSBCs claim that Hs 4 June payment did not qualify as a contractual repayment 
because of its internal policy or procedure is unfair because it did not form any part of 
its contract with H. H did not agree to be restricted to a single method of payment 
and the BBL scheme rules dont stipulate this either.
. 
Although H repaid the BBL because it was unhappy with its treatment by HSBC, it is 
not the case this is the best position it could hope to be in. Thats because H does 
not now have access to cost effective working capital and it cannot take out a new 
BBL 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions and for much the same reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
The agreement which Mr B had an opportunity to consider before signing it contained the 
following three important terms and conditions. 
Repayment 
Your first repayment will be made on the date 13 months(s) after the date you draw 
down the Loan and you will repay the Loan in 59 monthly instalments of £887.37 
(inclusive of capital and interest). You will then make a final repayment of £887.25 on 
the Final Repayment Date
Repayment Date. 
Once you have made a repayment or prepayment you cannot redraw that amount of 
the Loan that was repaid or prepaid. By prepayment we mean voluntary prepayment 
as set out below.
Voluntary PrepaymentsYou can prepay the Loan or any part of it, at any time if:
(a) You give us at least 10 business days written notice; and
(b) You also pay us all accrued interest on the amount prepaid
On the issue of the direct debit mandate, the agreement says:
We will allow you to draw down the Loan if:
b) you have returned to us, on the Acceptance Date, a completed direct debit mandate 
as set out in Schedule 1.
The purpose of direct debits generally is to ensure that a mechanism is in place for the 
regular monthly collection of repayments. In other words, its a more certain way of ensuring 
that repayments are made on time and on the due date to avoid such payments falling into 
arrears and triggering a default. It was a requirement of HSBC - and not an unreasonable 
one in my opinion - that Hs BBL monthly payments had to be made through that method.
However, I take Mr Bs point that strictly speaking there is nothing explicitly stated in the 
agreement that Hs BBL repayments had to be done by direct debit. 
Nonetheless, Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the agreement, makes clear that there 
is distinction between payments that are deemed to be repayments and those that are 
prepayments. Furthermore, it states explicitly the actual monthly figure that is deemed to 
be Hs monthly repayments. Against that background, I do not find it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to have chosen to treat Hs £10,000 lump sum payment not as its June repayment as 
stipulated in the agreement but as an additional payment  a prepayment in other words. 
That being said, taken in the round HSBC have already put H back in the position it would be 
in had the payment been treated as a monthly payment. HSBC agreed to adjust things as 
though Hs lump sum payment was a monthly repayment, taking appropriate steps for 
example to amend Hs credit record so that arising from these events, no adverse entries 
were shown.
Im sorry Mr B feels H is in a worse position having taken the decision to repay the BBL. This 
was a choice, however, that it made. Although H may have felt it had good reason for doing 
so, since I have not found the bank acted unfairly towards H, I cannot reasonably hold HSBC 
responsible for the consequences of Hs actions. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman