DRN-3043478
The complaint
 Mr C complains about Lloyds Bank PLC decision to block and subsequently close his 
account. He says this caused him significant distress, his health deteriorated as a result and 
he lost his job. Mr C also believes Lloyds Bank PLC racially discriminated against him. 
What happened
 In December 2018, Lloyds blocked Mr Cs account, so he wasnt able to access the money 
in his account. Mr C believes Lloyds racially discriminated against him which is why they 
made the decision to block his account.
When Mr C complained to Lloyds, they explained the block was due to a processing delay. 
Lloyds didnt give Mr C any more information, or any indication of how long his account 
would remain blocked.
The block remained in place until February 2019  however Mr C feels the impact of the 
block lasted until around June 2019. Lloyds made the decision to close Mr Cs account and 
gave him around 60 days notice. The account was closed in May 2019.
Mr C has explained the impact this situation had on him. He says Lloyds accused him of 
stealing money from his client which resulted in him losing his job. And he says his health 
deteriorated significantly, resulting in Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). 
The investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She reached out to Lloyds on a number of 
occasions for more information on why the block occurred so she could conclude whether 
Lloyds actions were fair. Lloyds didnt respond with sufficient information, so the investigator 
asked that they pay Mr C £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Lloyds responded and didnt agree. They said the account block and closure was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account and that they have provided all of the necessary 
information. Lloyds also strongly dispute that they have racially discriminated against Mr C. 
Lloyds dont agree £750 is due to Mr C as they feel there has been no bank error.
Mr C responded and thought £750 was an insult. He reiterated that he was earning £10,000 
a month and because of Lloyds accusations, he had lost this job. Mr C also spoke again of 
the impact the situation had on his health. Mr C correspondingly complained that some 
unauthorised Direct Debits were taken from the account, and he hasnt been able to claim 
these back due to the account now being closed. This part hasnt been considered by 
Lloyds.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think Lloyds should pay compensation to Mr C to put things right. Ive 
explained further below.
Firstly, Id like to explain to Mr C that I havent considered his complaint regarding the 
unauthorised Direct Debits  and thats because Lloyds havent had a chance to consider 
that themselves. Therefore, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding on this part. 
My decision focuses only on Lloyds decision to block and subsequently close Mr Cs 
account.
Lloyds are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Mr Cs account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Lloyds actions were appropriate in the circumstances, Id 
need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions they took during the 
review. Lloyds hasnt shared that level of detail with our service, so I cant confidently say 
their actions were reasonable. 
Following their review, Lloyds decided to end their relationship with Mr C. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, 
and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer  only to meet the account closure 
terms and conditions. Just the same as if Mr C decided to stop banking with Lloyds, he 
wouldnt have to explain why. Lloyds can only close accounts in certain circumstances and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Lloyds have relied on and complied with 
the terms and conditions when closing Mr Cs account and I do not think it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably. 
Mr C feels Lloyds racially discriminated against him when making the decision to review and 
close his account. This is a serious allegation Mr C has made, and one I have considered 
carefully. I can appreciate why Mr C feels this way  and thats because Lloyds havent given 
him a reason for their actions. But Ive explained above, Lloyds arent obliged to give a 
reason to Mr C. In order for me to uphold the complaint on this point, Id need to be satisfied 
that Lloyds have racially discriminated against Mr C. While Lloyds hasnt shared sufficient 
information or evidence to satisfy me of the actions they took during the review, the 
information they have shared satisfies me that their overall decision to close Mr Cs account 
wasnt based on Mr Cs personal characteristics such as his race. And Mr C hasnt shared 
any evidence to satisfy me that Lloyds made a racially discriminative decision  hes only 
given his opinion on it because any alternative reason is lacking. So, while I recognise 
Mr Cs strong sense of feeling around this, I havent seen anything to satisfy me Lloyds have 
discriminated against Mr C and therefore, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Ive thought carefully about the impact this overall situation had on Mr C. He says he lost his 
job as a result of it, and it had a detriment on his health  undoubtedly this would have put 
him in a very difficult position. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant confidently 
say Lloyds actions were the sole cause of Mr C losing his job. I appreciate Mr C says Lloyds 
accused him of stealing money from his client  but I havent seen anything substantial to 
confirm that Mr C lost his job because Lloyds blocked his account.  
Putting things right
 Overall, I recognise the distress this situation had on Mr C and I havent seen enough to 
satisfy me that Lloyds actions whilst the account was blocked were appropriate. So, I think a 
compensation payment of £750 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should do the following:
Pay Mr C £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman