DRN-1478999
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) wouldnt accept his cash deposit in 
branch.
What happened
Mr L holds an Instant Saver account with Halifax. Last year he attended a Halifax branch to 
deposit some money into his account and had his sort code and account number with him. 
But he didnt have his bank card. He did, however, have a bank card from another bank. 
Halifax said it required Mr L to provide identification (ID) before it could accept his deposit. 
So, Mr L produced his driving licence. Halifax told him this wasn't acceptable ID as the 
address on his driving licence didnt match the address it had recorded for him. So, it refused 
to deposit his funds.
Mr L said he told Halifax to ask him security questions about his account and address. But it 
said it couldnt accept the funds he wanted to deposit as it hadnt been able to verify him as 
was required under the regulations it had to adhere to.
Mr L complained about the service hed received in branch. He was felt he should have been 
permitted to deposit funds into his account. And he had wanted a call from an area manager 
so he could discuss his concerns, which he never received. 
When Halifax investigated Mr Ls complaint it didnt think it had made an error in not 
depositing his funds. But it accepted it hadnt responded to his concerns in line with its 
complaint handling procedure. It agreed this had caused delay. And to apologise for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr L had experienced Halifax paid him £50 compensation.
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs response to his complaint Mr L referred it to our service. 
After our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr L and Halifax they initially 
upheld this complaint. Overall, they thought Halifax could have done more to verify Mr L in 
branch using the information he had presented. And they thought this could have allowed 
him to deposit the funds into his saving account. So, they recommended Halifax pay £50 for 
the trouble and upset Mr L was caused.
Mr L felt the amount of compensation our investigator had recommended didnt sufficiently 
recognise the distress hed be experienced or the call costs hed incurred. And Halifax 
disagreed with our investigators view of this complaint because it had properly followed its 
policy for accepting cash deposits over the counter. It said it wouldnt be fair, on that basis, 
for our service to uphold this complaint. 
In light of the comments from Mr L and Halifax our investigator revisited this complaint. 
Halifax provided some further information about its process on branch deposits. And, after 
reviewing all this new information, our investigator recommended that this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. But Mr L didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to decide his 
complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint  either about the problems with depositing 
funds in branch or the way in which Halifax handled his complaint. Strictly speaking, we dont 
have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not 
a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did think 
Halifax hadnt dealt with Mr Ls complaint well, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of 
his concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I wont spend any time in this 
decision on that. Ill deal solely with the problems Mr L experienced in trying to deposit funds 
into his savings account in branch.
Mr L has sent submissions in response to our investigators view of his complaint. I want to 
assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and Halifax have sent when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr Ls raised as Ive focused on 
what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr L wont take that as a discourtesy, my 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr L experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. My role is 
to assess whether I think Halifax made a mistake, or treated Mr L unfairly, such that it needs 
to now put things right.  
Halifax told our service that its policy for in branch deposits requires a customer a have their 
card with a chip and pin. And, in the absence of a card, Halifax can accept a customers 
signature as proof of ID. In this case, however, no signature was held on its records. So, this 
wasnt possible. 
Under Halifaxs policy where a customer doesnt have their card available, and their 
signature cant be accepted in the alternative, theyre required to present ID. Ive seen the 
relevant policy document and can see that, in asking Mr L to provide ID that verified who he 
was, Halifax was following the procedure it has in place about  depositing cash in branch.
In this case Halifax said it wasnt able to accept the driving licence Mr L provided because, 
while it showed his date of birth and photograph, it had a different address to the one on it 
had recorded on his customer file. And it said Mr Ls name appeared differently. Halifax said 
this prevented it from verifying Mr L and completing security as required by regulations that 
had recently come into force. This meant it wasnt able to accept Mr Ls cash deposit.
I can understand why Mr L might think Halifax should be able to identify him using the 
photograph and date of birth on his driving licence. He also thinks it could have asked him 
security questions to verify his identity. But this isnt part of the process Halifax has in place 
for in branch deposits. 
Mr L said hes been able to deposit money into his account without using his card or proper 
ID in the past. But Ive seen the statements of his account, which show that when hes paid 
money into his account hes done so via the faster payment process. I havent seen any 
evidence of money being deposited by Mr L in branch without ID or his card.I appreciate that Mr L may think that in following its policy Halifax acted unfairly. But, as our 
investigator has already explained, Halifax is entitled to set its own policies with which we 
cant interfere. Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Halifax adhered to its policy. So, I cant 
fairly conclude it made an error in how it approached Mr Ls request to deposit funds in 
branch. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
I realise Mr L will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Halifax informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr L any 
further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman