DRN-4460885
The complaint
Miss E and Mr Fs complaint is about a mortgage they have with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
They are unhappy that Barclays reneged on attaching a fixed interest rate product to their 
mortgage when they were struggling to manage their payments. 
What happened
Miss E and Mr F arranged a mortgage with Barclays to purchase their home in 2019. 
Attached to the mortgage was a two-year fixed interest rate product. In the autumn of 2020 
they began to have difficulty making the monthly payments in full, and arrears built.
The interest rate product ended in May 2022, at which time the mortgage reverted to 
Barclays standard variable rate (SVR) and the monthly payment increased. On 
30 May 2022 Miss E spoke to Barclays about her and Mr Fs financial position and the 
difficulties they were having in light of changes in their circumstances. It offered to put the 
mortgage on a fixed interest rate product of 1.74% for initially six, and later in the 
conversation, twelve months. It was explained that this would allow Miss E and Mr F some 
breathing space and give them a chance to start addressing the arrears on the account. 
Miss E accepted the offer and was told the product had been applied and how much the 
monthly payment would be. 
However, Miss E and Mr F were not eligible for this rate, and it was not applied to their 
mortgage. Barclays left messages for Miss E to call it around a week later, so that it could 
explain that the new product hadnt been added to the account, but Miss E has said she 
didnt receive the messages. 
When Miss E and Mr F discovered the interest rate product theyd been offered had not 
been attached to the mortgage, they complained. Barclays spoke to Miss E in July 2022, and 
offered £200 compensation for the upset the mistake had caused, at which time Barclays 
considered it had resolved the complaint. Miss E and Mr F didnt agree and asked us to look 
into the complaint. 
Before we reviewed the complaint, Barclays did so again, and made a further offer to Miss E 
and Mr F. Due to their circumstances and Miss Es health situation, it said it was honouring 
the rate reduction that was agreed in May 2022. It was confirmed that the mortgage had 
been corrected for the period June 2022 to February 2023, and the arrears had reduced 
accordingly. In addition, Barclays said that it would apply a zero-interest rate to the mortgage 
starting 6 February 2023 for twelve months. Barclays also asked Miss E and Mr F for 
information about their circumstances so that it could establish what monthly payment they 
would be able to make going forward. It was subsequently confirmed the £200 compensation 
for the upset and inconvenience Miss E and Mr F had been caused was still available.
Miss E and Mr F didnt accept the offer. They asked that the zero-interest rate period be 
extended to 18 months or two years. This was because they would soon have a period of 
time where their income would reduce, and the additional time of no interest being paid 
would allow them to clear all of their arrears. They also considered the compensation 
payment was too low, given how long the matter had gone on for, and should equate to two 
to three months of mortgage payments.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and concluded Barclays offer was fair in 
the circumstances. She explained that when an error was made by a financial business, we 
would expect a consumer to be placed in the same position they would have been in if the 
mistake had not happened. However, Barclays had offered to place Miss E and Mr F in a 
position that may well have been better than they could have been in, but for the error. As for 
the compensation, she was satisfied the amount was appropriate in the circumstances. 
As Miss E and Mr F didnt accept the Investigators conclusions, it was decided the 
complaint should be passed to an Ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Barclays has accepted that it made an error when it offered Miss E and Mr F an interest rate 
product they didnt qualify for. As such, I only need to consider what it needs to do to 
address its mistake and how much compensation should be paid for the upset and 
inconvenience they suffered.
As our investigator explained, when a consumer is in financial difficulty and there is no sign 
that the situation will be resolved in the near future, it is not generally considered a good idea 
for a fixed interest rate product with an early repayment charge (ERC) to be attached to their 
mortgage. This is because if the property has to be sold, either voluntarily or due to 
repossession, the ERC would increase the cost of that action. However, a lender is required 
to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation and assist a consumer in difficulties if it is 
possible. 
For long-term difficulties, a lender must look at ways to help, such as transferring a mortgage 
from capital and interest (repayment) to interest-only, deferring or reducing interest for a 
period, or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. The requirement for a lender to try to 
help a borrower doesnt mean that a consumer should be given whatever they ask for, but 
rather the lender needs to determine if it can put forward any proposals that will actually help 
the consumer and not just postpone the inevitable if the mortgage isnt and wont be 
affordable going forward. 
In this case the fact that Barclays incorrectly offered Miss E and Mr F an interest rate 
concession they were not entitled to meant that further investigation into what could be done 
to assist them didnt happen. That said, Barclays realised this had been the consequence of 
its mistake, albeit many months later. When it then reviewed the situation in light of the 
mistake made and complaint, it not only put in place the concessionary rate for slightly over 
six months, but it also offered an entire year of no interest, so that all payments being made 
would go toward reducing the amount that is owed. This would allow Miss E and Mr F the 
opportunity to start to address the arrears on the account. Barclays then asked to review 
Miss E and Mr Fs finances with them and establish quite what they could afford to pay, not 
only at that time but also during the temporary period their income would be even lower. It is 
unfortunate that this review took so long, but it is what I would have expected Barclays to do 
and I can only find that its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As for Miss E and Mr Fs request that the zero-interest rate period be extended, that is a 
matter that they should discuss with Barclays. However, I would explain that when 
concessions are made to assist consumers in financial difficulty they tend to be set up for 
relatively short periods of time. The consumers situation would then be reviewed regularly to establish their ongoing needs and what is the appropriate way for the lender to assist, if that 
is still needed, and if it is, possible and practical to do. As such, if Barclays wants to see how 
things go for Miss E and Mr F and review the arrangements with them closer to the time the 
concessions expire, that wouldnt generally be considered an unreasonable approach.
Miss E and Mr F have said the £200 compensation isnt enough, given the stress and 
anxiety the situation has caused them. I have considered this. When a consumer is in 
financial difficulties that in itself will cause stress and anxiety  thats not something I can ask 
Barclays to compensate them for as it is not Barclays responsibility. However, if that is 
added to because of errors or failures on the part of Barclays, it would be appropriate for that 
to be reflected in an award for compensation. If that then directly caused a deterioration in 
health, that could also be factored in if it was supported by medical evidence. 
In this case Miss E and Mr F believed they had agreed with Barclays something that would 
help them with their financial problems, only to discover that was not the case. This 
subsequently led to the threat of legal action being taken to repossess the property, which 
may well not have occurred had Barclays not made the mistake it did and it had completed 
an assessment of what it could do to assist Miss E and Mr F with their financial difficulties. In 
light of this, I consider that £200 compensation is not sufficient in the circumstances and that 
it should be increased to £500.
Miss E and Mr F said they didnt think my conclusions were fair as I hadnt looked at the 
letters they had received from companies to talk about repossession or the letters theyd had 
from local people regarding the repossession. They provided further copies of letters they 
had given to us before the complaint was passed to me for consideration, plus two letters 
from a firm of solicitors offering to assist them with the repossession proceedings if they 
needed it. 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay the increased compensation 
payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have detailed above, most of the correspondence Miss E and Mr F believe I did not 
factor into my conclusions were available to me when I reviewed the file. Those documents, 
as part of the activities being complained about, were considered and factored into my 
conclusion that a higher compensation payment was warranted. While Miss E and Mr F 
hadnt provided the two letters from the firm of solicitors offering them help, those letters 
havent altered my conclusion. I remain satisfied that £500 is the appropriate amount in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
apply the interest rates it offered to Miss E and Mr F in February 2023 and pay them £500 
compensation (including the £200 already offered/paid) for the upset its error caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss E and Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman