DRN-3785666
The complaint
Ms G complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus blocked her 
Cashplus account. 
What happened
In March 2020, Cashplus blocked Ms Gs account whilst it carried out a review. As part of 
the review, Cashplus asked Ms G to provide proof of her identification and address.
Cashplus told Ms G that not all of the documents shed provided could be accepted as they 
did not meet its verification requirements. On 23 April 2021, Cashplus accepted Ms Gs 
passport as proof of her identity. In its final response letter issued on 29 April 2021, 
Cashplus said it had not made any mistake and that the account would remain restricted 
until an acceptable form of proof of address was provided. 
In October 2021, Ms G contacted this service as she was still unable to access her money. 
She said the account had been blocked for three years and that shed tried to verify her 
address with a number of different documents, but none had been accepted. Ms G explained 
that being without the money had made it difficult for her to manage financially. She wanted 
the money returned to her and for Cashplus to pay the interest that shed incurred on her 
credit card.
In May 2022, Cashplus gave Ms G access to the funds. Ms G explained that she was happy 
with this but still felt Cashplus should cover the costs shed incurred as a result of not being 
able to use the money sooner.
Our Investigator said Cashplus didnt need to pay Ms G compensation because shed not 
provided sufficient evidence to show she was unable to pay her credit cards or that shed 
had to rely on them to pay bills whilst the Cashplus account was blocked. He didnt think the 
evidence Ms G had provided showed that she was without any other means of payment 
during this time. 
Ms G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed afresh. She said it wasnt right 
that Cashplus could withhold her funds for so long and not pay any interest. She pointed out 
it was her money that she was free to do what she liked with and said the theory of 
opportunity cost applies to these funds. Ms G suggested that Cashplus should pay interest 
on the funds at the rate that was charged on her credit card or at the very least at the 
statutory interest rate to recognise that shed not been able to use the money as shed 
wanted during this time. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Ms G has said that she feels very strongly about her complaint. But for 
me to uphold this complaint and make an award of compensation, I must be satisfied that 
Cashplus has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Ive first thought about Cashpluss decision to block and review Ms Gs account. Cashplus 
has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to 
customers and it must take certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Those 
obligations are ongoing and dont only apply to when an account is opened. 
Im satisfied that Cashplus were complying with these obligations when it reviewed Ms Gs 
account and asked her to provide information. The terms and conditions of Ms Gs account 
also allow Cashplus to block an account and Im satisfied that Cashplus acted in line with 
them. So I cant say Cashplus did anything wrong when it blocked Ms Gs account. 
Whilst Cashplus are entitled to review an account, Id expect them to do so in a timely 
manner. I accept Ms Gs point that she was without access to these funds for a long time. 
She told us that Cashplus allowed her to access the funds in May 2022, which is more than 
two years after the block was first applied. But I dont think Cashplus has unreasonably 
delayed matters here. It has explained that the verification process took so long to complete 
because the information Ms G provided was not sufficient to meet requirements. Both 
Cashplus and Ms G have provided copies of the evidence that was submitted. From what 
I have seen, Ms G provided documentation that was not of sufficient quality for Cashplus as 
it appeared photocopied and printed out. She had also submitted documents not included on 
the list of items that were acceptable. 
I recognise that not being able to access this money has caused Ms G stress and 
inconvenience at a time when she was not well. But it wasnt wrong for Cashplus to block the 
account and I cant fairly say that Cashplus acted unreasonably by keeping the account 
restricted until it had verified her identification and address. 
Im unable to make an award of compensation in circumstances where Cashplus has not 
done anything wrong. In addition, the credit card statements Ms G has submitted are not 
sufficient to show she incurred a financial loss as a direct result of the Cashplus account 
being blocked. So I dont consider that Cashplus needs to do anything further or that it needs 
to pay Ms G any compensation. I realise that this decision will be very disappointing for 
Ms G, but it brings to an end what this service can do in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman