DRN-2556777
The complaint
Mr B has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund 
transactions he didnt authorise.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B contacted Barclaycard. Hed noticed a number of transactions to iTunes 
which hed not made. He believed these may have been made by his young son using an 
iPad.
Barclaycard sent Mr B forms to allow him to make a claim under the chargeback rules. Mr B 
then contacted Barclays by letter dated 14 October 2019. By this stage it was too late for 
Barclaycard to raise any claim under the chargeback rules so they told him they couldnt 
help further.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed what had 
happened. He didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the conclusion I have.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  like the 
issue around apparent authority and I explain this further below as it has an impact on the 
decision Im making here.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Barclaycard and 
Mr B. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 16 December 2020. I also had 
other questions asked of Mr B and what use he made of iTunes.
Hes told us the transactions were more than likely made by his son using his own iPad. He 
contacted Apple and they told him to get his bank (or in Mr Bs case his credit card provider) 
to manage this through a chargeback. I see no reason to dispute what Mr B told us.
On the other hand the PSRs say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr B can be 
treated as acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account. Mr Bs 
Barclaycard details are obviously loaded to his Apple account. Mr Bs son is pretty young so 
theres no way he could be regarded as responsible for making the transactions but knowing 
his son had his own iPad that enabled him to use iTunes was Mr Bs responsibility. So 
having considered the issues around authority, I believe Mr B granted apparent authority to 
his son to use his card details.
Ive also considered the chargeback issues. The chargeback rules are set by the 
international card schemes. These involve time limits which mean after a certain time 
following the original transactions, a bank is unable to submit a chargeback claim. So when 
we review a complaint involving a chargeback, we consider whether the business applied 
the rules properly.
Barclaycard provided Mr B with enough information to decide whether to make a claim. Mr B 
didnt take the issue any further until he wrote to Barclaycard in October. By that stage the 
transactions Mr B disputed  which took place from 24 April 2018 to 21 February 2019  had 
happened too far back for Barclaycard to make a successful claim on Mr Bs behalf.
I dont think Barclaycard could have done anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman