DRN-2975942
Complaint
Ms M has complained that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided her with an unaffordable 
loans. She says that if Bamboo failed to carry out an effective assessment of affordability 
and if it had done so it would have seen that it shouldnt have lent to her.
Background
Bamboo provided Ms M with an initial loan of £3,000.00 in July 2019. The loan was due to 
be repaid in 12 instalments of around £320. The loan had interest of £830.37 and the total 
amount to be repaid was £3,830.37. This loan was repaid with some of the proceeds from 
loan 2, which was for £3,411.55 (£2,511.55 went to settling loan 1) provided in January 
2020. The loan was due to be repaid in 12 instalments of around £363. The loan had interest 
of £944.85 and the total amount to be repaid was £4,356.40. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Bamboo hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not have 
shown Bamboo Ms M wasnt able to sustainably repay these loans. Bamboo accepted our 
investigators findings on loan 1, but disagreed with his findings on loan 2. So the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for review. As the parties are in agreement that loan 2 wasnt 
fairly provided, this decision is only considering whether L2G acted fairly and reasonably 
when it provided loan 1.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Ms Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ms complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Ms M would be able to repay loan 1 in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Ms M wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M would 
be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Bamboo provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms Ms ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms M. In practice 
this meant that Bamboo had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Ms M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of the loan repayments on Ms M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Bamboos checks reasonable and proportionate?
Bamboo says that Ms M completed an online income and expenditure assessment. It then 
ran a number of automatic checks against the details Ms M provided. These checks ensured 
Ms M met its initial lending criteria and included a credit check to ensure she wasnt 
insolvent.
Ms M told Bamboo that her monthly income was around £1,977.00. Ms M was also recorded 
as having monthly expenditure of £517.07. This was made up of a £0 a month figure entered 
for rent, £388.82 in living expenses (based on Office of National Statistics (ONS)) data and £128.25 for repayments on existing credit. Bamboo says it didnt find it unusual that Ms M 
wasnt contributing towards the rent as it is likely that her partner was paying. Bamboo 
concluded that Ms M had around £1,459.84 in disposable income available each month. 
 
Ive carefully thought about what Bamboo has said but I have significant concerns about the 
rigour it applied to its affordability assessment.
To explain, the credit check Bamboo carried out showed that she had 7 active accounts and 
had opened a new account in previous 6 months despite also having a default. The data 
also suggested that Ms M had made 3 further applications for credit in the 12 months 
preceding this loan. The credit check also showed recent missed payments on one account, 
some recent payday lending and sustained arrears on another account too. Im also 
concerned that Bamboo simply assumed that Ms Ms rent was covered by her partner simply 
because she declared that she didnt pay anything.
I have also concerns with Bamboos use of ONS data to calculate Miss Hs living expenses. 
Bamboo says the FCAs guidance in CONC 5.2A.19G permits the use of statistical data to 
estimate a prospective borrowers non-discretionary expenditure. I accept that this is the 
case but its also fair to say this provision also states that it is unfair to rely on such data 
where it is unlikely to be reasonably representative of the prospective borrowers situation. 
Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances and expenditure of the average 
consumer, to estimate Ms Ms living expenses. But Bamboo knew, when it lent to Ms M, that 
it was providing a loan to someone who fell outside this average portfolio. I dont think that 
using ONS data  which is unlikely to reflect the existing commitments and expenditure of 
someone in Ms Ms circumstances is fair, reasonable and proportionate especially bearing in 
mind that it took no steps to verify her income  Im not persuaded that credit reference data 
would have been able verify Ms Ms income.
 
Furthermore, Im also concerned how Bamboo seems to have accepted at face value that 
Ms M had a monthly disposable income of approaching £1,500.00 a month, yet needed to 
borrow £3,000.00 on such disadvantageous terms. Ms Ms credit history did not suggest that 
she was someone who had such a high disposable income. And Im satisfied that Bamboos 
checks threw up a number of questions which meant that it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Bamboo to verify the income and expenditure Ms M provided. 
I want to confirm that Ive also seen what Bamboos initial submission has said about 
outcomes reached in other unrelated cases confirming that its checks were proportionate. 
But I dont think that it is appropriate for me to review the conclusions reached by other 
casehandlers on completely separate and unrelated cases. 
In any event, Ive already explained that Bamboo was required to carry out a borrower 
focused check. And it is the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) together with the type, amount and cost of credit being provided thats the main 
driver in determining whether a check is proportionate. So its entirely possible that a 
proportionate check  for similar loan amounts - could look different depending on the 
individual circumstances of the prospective borrower.
Bearing all of this in mind, as Bamboo didnt take steps to verify Ms Ms income and 
expenditure and instead chose to rely on an over optimistic (and somewhat unrealistic) 
calculation of her monthly disposable income, I dont think that its checks before providing  
Ms M with this loan were reasonable and proportionate.Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Bamboo that Ms M would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Bamboo that Ms M wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Ms M has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Ms M has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Bamboo mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Bamboo showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Ms Ms financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Bamboo was required to establish whether Ms M could make her 
loan repayments without borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could make the repayments in this way. But it doesnt automatically follow that this 
is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Ms M has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided with shows that Ms Ms income was out of work at the 
time she applied for this loan. The information provided also shows that Ms M was making 
token payments to a debt collector and was regularly borrowing from a payday type lender. 
Finally, it also shows the she was incurring returned direct debits on her current account too. 
So it seems clear to me that Ms Ms ability to make the payments to this loan was always 
going to result in her borrowing further. And thats what she indeed went on to do. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Ms M would not have been able to make the 
repayments to loan 1 (as well as loan 2) without borrowing further and/or suffering significant 
adverse consequences. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted Bamboo to the fact that it 
shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Ms M either. 
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M in 
some other way.  
So I find that Bamboo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M in some other way.  
Did Ms M lose out as a result of Bamboo unfairly providing her with this loan?As Ms M has paid interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been provided 
with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Bamboo did wrong. 
So I think that Bamboo needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Bamboo needs to do to put things right for Ms M
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ms complaint for Bamboo to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms M paid on loan 1 (as well as loan 2 as 
Bamboo has agreed to do);
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file as a result of this 
loan (as well as loan 2).
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. Bamboo Limited should put 
things right for Ms M in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman