DRN-1782832
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage application Mr B made to OneFamily 
Lifetime Mortgages Limited (OLM). OLM refused the application after receiving a 
valuation report saying Mr Bs property wasnt worth as much as hed forecast. Mr B wants 
OLM to be made to provide the mortgage or refund him his valuation fee.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Lenders arent themselves experts in property, so they have to rely on other parties who are; 
typically firms of surveyors and/or valuers. OLMs duty to Mr B was to appoint a suitably 
qualified and competent surveyor to carry out the valuation. Provided it did that, and I am 
satisfied it did in Mr Bs case, OLM was entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion when 
assessing whether to offer him a mortgage. 
It wasnt obliged to lend to him, and isnt in breach of any contract because it hasnt done so. 
Its worth noting also that OLM facilitated Mr B appealing against the valuation; I appreciate 
Mr B is upset that the surveyor didnt change his mind, but thats not a matter for OLM. 
I have no remit to consider whether there were shortcomings in the way the original 
valuation or the appeal against it were conducted, as they were the work of the surveyor, not 
OLM. In any event, I see that Mr B has expressed an intention to refer his displeasure with 
the work of the surveyor to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. That is his 
prerogative and nothing I say should be taken as in any way prejudicing the eventual 
outcome of that process.
That leaves the fee Mr B paid; £415, as I understand it. The purpose of the valuation fee was 
to meet the cost of OLM obtaining a report in order that it could assess the propertys overall 
suitability as security for a mortgage. Mr B may not have liked the outcome, but by any 
reasonable analysis, he received the service he paid for. There is therefore no reasonable 
basis for me to order OLM to refund it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against OneFamily Lifetime Mortgages Limited. My final decision 
concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman