DRN-1676243
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr L took out the card and PPI in 2003 via a postal application.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Capital One disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr L applied for the card by completing an application form that hed received through the 
post. Looking at the application form, it specifically asks if the applicant would like to enrol in 
Capital Ones payment protection scheme. There are yes and no boxes that could be 
ticked to either request or decline the policy. Mr L has ticked the yes box. Looking at the 
available evidence, I think that Mr L would have known from the wording and layout of the 
form that he had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt have to.
Capital One didnt advise Mr L to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr L with sufficient information for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think Mr L would have known something about the policy  that it would cover him if he was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have 
decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. However, Im not persuaded that 
he was made sufficiently aware of some of the other features of the policy.
The policy only covered people for full accident, sickness and unemployment up to the age 
of 65, even if someone continued to work. This would have been of particular importance to 
Mr L because he had already turned 63 at the time that he bought the PPI. Therefore, Mr L 
would have had less than two years in which he could benefit from full cover. Furthermore, 
Mr L would have received some sick pay from him employer, meaning that he had even less 
need for the policy in the time remaining before he turned 65. 
On balance, based on the available evidence, I am not persuaded that Mr L would have 
decided to buy the policy if hed have understood that hed only be getting full cover until the 
age of 65. This is because he would have appreciated that his need for the cover was 
reduced and therefore wouldnt have seen it as good value for money in his circumstances. 
It follows that I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Putting things right
Capital One should put Mr L in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI 
and:
A. Capital One should find out how much Mr L would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what Mr L owes and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when Capital One works out what Mr L would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr L paid more than enough to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr L wouldve owed Capital One something on his credit card. The interest rate should 
8% a year.
C. Capital One should tell Mr L what its done to work out A and B.
D. Capital One can deduct the amount it has already paid to Mr L for unfair commission 
from the above total.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital One 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and require Capital One (Europe) plc to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman