DRN-3593202
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited have declined a transfer he was trying to make to 
a particular company and so they are restricting his use of his account unfairly. 
 
What happened
Mr H holds a current account with Starling Bank.  
He wanted to make payment to a cryptocurrency merchant, but Starling Bank were unable to 
facilitate this. 
Mr H raised this as a complaint as he thought he should be able to pay whoever he wants 
with his money and doesnt think that Starling should be able to prevent this.  
The Starling Bank adviser told Mr H that not all cryptocurrency merchants were blocked, just 
the ones blocked by their international providers, and she was unable to remove the 
restrictions. 
Mr H advised that if he couldnt make the payment that day he would close his account. 
He raised a complaint with Starling Bank that there were no terms and conditions that 
specified these limitations, and that Starling Bank couldnt limit his use of his account without 
pre warning. 
In their final response, Starling Bank said that Starling accounts dont support high value 
cryptocurrency trading, and so Mr H would have to find another way of making these 
investments. They said that the Specialist Support Team would contact him to discuss how 
they could best assist him with his account in the future. 
Mr H was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us.  
One of our investigators looked into it but he didnt think that Starling Bank had done 
anything wrong.  
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Starling Bank have explained that their accounts dont support high value cryptocurrency 
trading and that they arent obliged to elaborate on the transfer limits that they apply. They 
referred Mr H to their account terms and conditions. 
Section 1 says:
We may hold a payment instruction if we reasonably consider it necessary to do so to 
protect you or your Account (for example, as a result of a payment exceeding a fraud-related 
limit) or if we are required to for legal reasons.
This term allows Starling Bank to restrict and stop any outgoing payments if they think there 
is a fraud risk. 
They have explained to us and to Mr H that they have seen a  significant increase in the 
amount  of fraud cases which relate to cryptocurrency, and so they have taken a stance to 
lower the amounts that can be sent to cryptocurrency platforms. 
Starling Bank, like all other providers of financial services, are required to assess risk and 
put in place any fraud prevention measures that they think will help to protect their 
customers. Starling Bank have put this measure in place to address a risk that they have 
identified in certain types of transaction.  
I appreciate that Mr H may not have been a victim of fraud in the past, and he may not 
consider that the transaction is a risk, but Starling Bank are entitled to operate this policy as 
long as they operate it fairly and to all customers. 
Mr H has also raised a concern that this change to their approach has been imposed on their 
customers without notice. However, the terms and conditions of the account state that 
Starling Bank can make these changes like this at any time:
'We may need to make changes to your Agreement
with us from time to time, this could include changes to our charges, 12/14 interest rates,
exchange rates, or other terms in this Agreement. We will usually provide you with at least 
two months advance notice of any changes to this Agreement. We may immediately and 
without notice to you, make changes to: (i) our interest rates and/or exchange rates where 
such changes are more favourable to you; (ii) any terms in this Agreement related to certain 
nonregulated payment or banking services, including those for Digital Wallets; (iii) add new 
terms into this Agreement for new products, services or features as long as such new terms 
do not change the terms for any existing products, services or features; and (iv) this 
Agreement where permitted by law. If you do not wish to accept any changes we may make, 
you can close your Account at any point before the new Agreement comes into force.
It is important for banks to be able to make some changes without notice as the changing 
nature of fraud means that they need to be able to adapt and react when they identify a risk. 
I also appreciate that it isnt helpful for Mr H not to know what the limit is on cryptocurrency 
transactions, but Starling Bank have decided not to divulge this to any customer, and I cant 
tell them to change this policy, as long as it is applied fairly to all customers. 
In view of the above, I wont be asking Starling Bank to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
Starling Bank Limited.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman