DRN-3132514
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly recorded a default on her credit file. 
What happened
Last year, Ms Ss loan account with Barclays fell into arrears. Ms S has told us she thought a 
payment holiday had been approved, but Barclays says no such arrangement was agreed. 
Barclays sent Ms S a default notice that said she needed to pay £3,069.60 by 6 November 
2020 to avoid defaulting the loan account. Ms S paid £3,500 on 22 October 2020 and went 
on to continue making her normal monthly repayments. 
Ms S complained about the way Barclays had handled her payment holiday application. Ms 
S also complained that Barclays had recorded a default on her loan despite clearing the 
outstanding arrears before the deadline. Barclays didnt uphold Ms S complaint so she 
referred it to this service. 
In an earlier decision, I explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt consider 
Ms S complaint about the payment holiday issues she raised because they werent referred 
to us within six months of Barclays final response dated 19 November 2020. But I said we 
could consider Ms S complaint about Barclays decision to close the loan and record a 
default on her credit file as those points werent covered in the original final response. 
Our investigator upheld Ms S complaint and Barclays agreed to delete the default from her 
credit file and pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclays 
confirmed Ms S loan account remained open and active on its systems, so it didnt need to 
take further action to reactivate it. 
Ms S asked to appeal as she didnt agree £500 was fair compensation. Ms S said she relies 
on having good credit for her work. Ms S also says she lost the deposit on a car she wanted 
to purchase because her financing application was declined. Our investigator asked Ms S to 
forward a copy of her credit file and evidence the default had led to credit applications being 
declined as well as the car finance deciding not to proceed. Ms S forwarded some screen 
shots of her credit score and copies of some finance quotations, but we didnt receive a full 
copy of her credit file. 
As Ms S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my previous decision, we can only look at the closure information Barclays gave 
and the default it recorded after Ms S cleared the loan arrears. I can see the investigator 
upheld Ms S complaint on the basis she cleared the arrears before the date given in the 
default notice. Barclays accepts it shouldnt have gone on to record the default on Ms S 
credit file and says it has now deleted it. Ms S has explained she feels the default has 
caused her problems over the course of a year and doesnt agree the £500 compensation 
fairly reflects that. 
Whilst I agree Barclays was wrong to record a default on Ms S credit file, I think its 
reasonable to note there were significant loan arrears recorded as well. The payment holiday 
application wasnt successful and Ms S didnt make payments for around five months. I think 
its reasonable to say that arrears of that nature are generally considered by prospective 
lenders. I havent seen evidence to show the default Barclays recorded was the only reason 
Ms S credit applications werent successful. 
I note Ms S hasnt sent us evidence of multiple unsuccessful application attempts. Our 
investigator also asked for a full copy of Ms S credit file so we could have a look at the 
searches completed and information recorded. Whilst Ive seen screen shots of Ms S score, 
that information isnt sufficient to verify it was Barclays default that solely led to credit 
applications being declined. As I havent seen evidence to show Ms S lost out financially as 
a result of Barclays error, Im not awarding compensation on that basis. 
The investigator asked Barclays to remove the default from Ms S credit file and pay her 
£500. Barclays says the loan remained active on its systems and that its already taken the 
step of removing the default. Ive considered everything Ms S has told us about how the 
problems raised have affected her. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that £500 is 
a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S. As Im satisfied a 
settlement of £500 is a fair way to resolve Ms S concerns, Im going to uphold her 
complaint. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to settle as 
follows:
- Pay Ms S £500
- If it hasnt done so already, remove the default from Ms S credit file
- If it hasnt done so already, reinstate Ms S loan account and administer in line with 
original credit agreement going forward
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman