DRN-3686980
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank 
(Tesco), managed her credit card account when she ran into financial difficulties.  
What happened
Miss M has a loan and a credit card with Tesco, but only the credit card is subject to this 
complaint. 
Miss M was in full-time employment up to October 2019 when she lost her job. She 
cancelled the direct debit for her credit card in December 2019 and missed some 
repayments. Miss M took on some ad hoc work before finding a further full-time role in 
February 2020. Miss Ms salary in this job was significantly less than she was paid up to 
October 2019.  Miss M brought her credit card account back up to date in April 2020, but the 
repayments stopped again in June 2020. 
On 4 September 2020, Tesco got in touch with Miss M by telephone because she was 
behind with her repayments. A three-month payment arrangement of £20 per month was 
made for her credit card. Miss M also spoke to a different adviser about her loan and she 
told Tesco she would apply for a three-month payment holiday because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Her application for payment holiday for the loan was later accepted. 
Miss M made one payment towards the credit card plan on 21 September 2020. On 10 
November 2020, Tesco issued a default notice. The notice said the arrears on Miss Ms 
account were £243.17 and she needed to pay that sum within 28 days. Tesco sent a further 
letter on 9 December 2020 in which it said the credit card account had been terminated and 
the full balance of £2,147.77 was now due. 
Miss M told us she did not take account of the letters Tesco sent to her because the email 
she received in respect of the payment holiday told her to disregard correspondence. Tesco 
then passed the account to a debt collection agency. 
Miss M complained to Tesco. In response, Tesco said she had not applied for a payment 
break in respect of her credit card  the application was in respect of her loan only. It said it 
had not made any errors in how it managed her account. However, it did agree to recall the 
account from the debt collection agency. 
Miss M also made a subject access request to Tesco. Miss M received the resulting 
correspondence in a torn envelope, and so the contents could have been read by a third 
party. Tesco apologised for this error and offered to pay £300 to compensate her for its 
mistake in that regard. 
Miss M then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
even if Miss M had made an application for a covid-19 payment break for the credit card, the 
application would have been declined. Thats because Miss M was in arrears with her credit 
card before the onset of the pandemic. He didnt think Tesco was wrong when it defaulted 
the account. He also said that Tescos offer to compensate Miss M by £300 in respect of 
mistake it made with her subject access request was fair. 
Miss M did not accept that view. By way of summary, she said she was extremely vulnerable 
in 2020 in light of her own health matters and those of family members. Miss M felt she was 
one customer and so separate applications should not have been necessary for a payment 
freeze for each individual financial product she had with Tesco. Miss M said that Tesco gave 
her contradictory and confusing advice. Had Tescos advice been clearer, she said she 
would have made better decisions as to her credit card. Miss M also complained that Tesco 
did not undertake reasonable and proportionate checks and had it done so, it would have 
applied the pandemic guidelines in a consistent manner.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Miss M will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
I was sorry to see that Miss M had a very difficult time during the pandemic, which included 
dealing with her own health matters and those of her family members. I can also see her 
employment situation was challenging in 2019 and 2020. And for those reasons, I accept 
that she was vulnerable during the period I have to consider. Miss M did not disclose any of 
her health concerns to Tesco. But she did say she wasnt working. So Tesco would have 
reasonably known she was vulnerable and should have provided the appropriate level of 
care. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Tesco should have agreed a payment holiday for 
Miss Ms credit card in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
As our investigator said in his view, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) issued 
temporary guidance to financial businesses during the Covid-19 pandemic. It said where a 
consumer had run into temporary financial difficulties because of the pandemic, firms were 
expected to offer a freeze on loans and credit cards for up to three months. The FCA also 
said that if a consumer was already in financial difficulties before the onset of the pandemic, 
its usual rules around financial difficulties would apply. 
Looking at what Miss M told us about her personal circumstances, I agree with our 
investigator that Miss Ms financial difficulties most likely started before the onset of the 
pandemic. I note that that her full-time employment contract came to an end in October 2019 
before she took on some ad hoc work and then a further job with a considerably reduced 
salary in February 2020. Her credit card statements indicate that she started to have 
difficulties with repayments from December 2019 onwards. 
For those reasons, I cant say the FCAs temporary guidance in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic applies in Miss Ms case. I further agree with our investigator that had an 
application been made under these provisions in respect of the credit card, it would have 
most likely been declined by Tesco for these reasons. 
Nevertheless, as Miss M was in financial difficulties, Tesco needed to treat her fairly and with 
forbearance. I can see that Tesco did contact Miss M on 4 September 2020 to find out 
whether she was in financial difficulties. I can see Miss M disclosed that she had just finished 
in one job and was due to start in another role in the coming month. Tesco agreed to freeze 
interest and charges on her account for three months and set a lower monthly payment for 
those same three months. The level of payment was set at an affordable amount for Miss M. 
I can see Miss M told Tesco she would be starting work again in the coming months and she 
expected to be paid after this. With that in mind and in light of the vulnerability Miss M 
disclosed, it seems to me that Tescos agreement to reduce payments, as well as freezing 
interest and charges for three months was a reasonable response in those circumstances. 
Ive listened to the telephone calls between Miss M and Tesco from 4 September 2020. I 
noted that Tesco informed her further action could be taken if she fell behind with the 
repayment plan. Tesco then wrote to Miss M that same day setting out what action it would 
take if Miss M did not keep to the arrangement and did not contact it. The first payment of £20 was due on 20 September 2020. Miss M paid £10 on 21 September 
2020 but made no further payments in accordance with the agreement afterwards. On 10 
November 2020, Tesco sent a notice of default to Miss M in which it was stated that she 
needed to pay £243.17 to clear her arrears by 8 December 2020 or the account would be 
defaulted. Miss M did not make any payments and so the account was defaulted and the 
credit card agreement terminated on 9 December 2020. 
By the time Tesco issued the default notice on 10 November 2020, it seems to me that the 
credit card account was considerably in arrears - only one payment of £10 had been made 
to the account since 20 May 2020. The relevant industry guidance suggests that a default 
should be registered when an account is between three and six months in arrears. Looking 
at Miss Ms credit card statements, I think her account was around five months in arrears 
when Tesco issued the default notice. And it would have been almost six months in arrears 
when the account was actually defaulted. 
I wouldnt usually expect a default to be registered where there is a payment arrangement in 
place. But as the terms of that payment arrangement had not been kept, I cant say Tesco 
was wrong to default the account. 
Ive thought about whether Tesco should have done more in this regard because of what it 
knew about Miss Ms vulnerability. But from what it knew about her circumstances, she was 
planning to return to work shortly after the telephone call on 4 September 2020. So, I cant 
say its actions were unreasonable, where it seems like she still couldnt return to making 
payments even after she said shed be able to in the original call with Tesco.
Miss Ms argument is that it was not fair for Tesco to default the account because she 
reasonably believed shed set up a payment break for her credit card, as well as her loan. 
However, I can see that when Miss M received notification of the payment break, it was 
specifically stated to related to her loan. There was reference to paying off the arrears within 
Miss Ms original loan term and how the payment break would have affected the loan 
balance. The email set out what Miss Ms loan balance was at the start of the payment break 
and how much extra shed pay in interest. Moreover, it was signed by the Tesco Bank 
Loans Team. I think that correspondence was sufficiently clear to indicate to Miss M that a 
payment break had been set up only in respect of the loan.   
In addition to that, Tesco sent out another email to Miss M to say that the payment break 
was coming to an end and that the next payment was due on 17 November 2020. Tesco 
said that it would restart Miss Ms direct debit to take the same monthly payment as it had 
done before the payment break. Even if Miss M was mistaken as to the first email, I think this 
second email was also clear that the payment break referred only to the loan. Miss M had 
cancelled the direct debit in respect of her credit card in December 2019, so it would not 
have been possible for Tesco to restart that payment method. Moreover, if Miss M thought 
the email was about the credit card, I think shed have queried why no repayments were 
taken on or around 17 November 2020. 
In any event, Ive listened with care to the telephone calls between Miss M and Tesco on 4 
September 2020. I can see she was contacted about her credit card in the first instance and 
agreed the payment plan of £20 per month Ive referred to above. Miss M was then 
transferred to the loans team and a payment break was discussed at that point. Tesco 
advised Miss M to apply online if she wanted a payment break for her loan. Miss M was then 
transferred back to the adviser shed spoken to from the original team. After some 
discussion, she indicated that she would continue with the arrangement shed made earlier 
in respect of the credit card. Following those calls, I think it would have been clear to Miss M 
that a different arrangement was in place for the credit card.   
Ive also thought about what Miss M said about being unaware of the issues with her credit 
card account because Tesco told her to disregard its correspondence. However, that 
instruction came in an email with regard to the loan. I can see that when Miss M received correspondence from Tesco in respect of the loan, it was prefaced with information saying it 
was aware she may have already been in touch to make an arrangement to pay her loan, 
but that it was obliged to send her a notice of arrears by the Consumer Credit Act.  There 
was no such preface on any of the correspondence sent in respect of the credit card. 
Miss M argues that Tescos processes in applying for a payment break were confusing, and 
if shed applied for a payment break for one product, that should have been all that was 
needed for all her accounts. I cant say it was unusual for Tesco to require a separate 
application for each financial product. Credit cards and loans are different products that work 
in different ways, so whats right to help a customer with one product wont necessarily be 
right for another. 
I know Miss M strongly believes that Tesco gave her confusing information. But in 
considering all of the evidence before me in that regard, I cant say that was the case. And I 
cant say that agreeing a payment plan for the credit card rather than a payment break was 
unreasonable in these circumstances. For example, upon agreeing the payment plan, Tesco 
agreed to freeze interest and charges, whereas if a Covid-19 payment break had been 
agreed, interest would have still been chargeable. 
In her response to our investigator, Miss M referred me to various checks she said Tesco 
should have undertaken. The checks Miss M refers to are those I would expect Tesco to 
undertake before Miss Ms account was opened or before agreeing to increase a credit limit. 
Miss M hasnt complained that Tesco was irresponsible in agreeing to lend to her in the first 
place. 
I know Miss M complained to Tesco about the manner in which the paperwork following her 
subject access request was delivered. Our investigator said he thought Tescos offer of £300 
in that regard was fair. Miss M didnt disagree with what our investigator said on that point. I 
can see that Tesco accepted that it should have sent its correspondence to Miss M in a 
stronger envelope. For the avoidance of doubt, I agree that Tescos payment of £300 is a fair 
way to settle that part of the complaint. 
Putting all of this together, Im satisfied Tesco acted with the appropriate level of care in light 
of what it knew about Miss Ms personal circumstances. With that in mind, I dont need to tell 
Tesco to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman