DRN-4480329
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the service shes received from U K Insurance Limited trading as
Direct Line for Business (UKI) following issues with payments for her business protection
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F had a business protection insurance policy with UKI. She paid for this by monthly
instalments.
However, there were issues with UKIs collection of the May, June and July 2023
instalments. Mrs F was notified they hadnt collected each time, contacted UKI and received
conflicting information they had collected and later was told they hadnt. This meant Mrs F
had to contact UKI and make manual payments. She was also told her policy was cancelled,
but that wasnt actually the case at that time.
However, in August 2023 Mrs Fs policy was then cancelled due to no payment being
received for July 2023. And UKI said Mrs F needed to pay the outstanding balance and
cancellation charges.
Throughout the ongoing monthly payment issues, Mrs F raised several complaints. UKI
recognised the ongoing payment issue was a problem their end, and they offered a total of
£105 compensation (separately £25, £25 and £55). But UKI said they hadnt acted unfairly
by cancelling the policy as they notified Mrs F of this beforehand.
Mrs F remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and he recommended the complaint should be
upheld. He said that he didnt think the compensation was enough, so he recommended UKI
should pay a total of £200.
UKI didnt agree so the case was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings 
before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partly agree with the outcome our investigator reached. But there 
is also something else I think UKI need to do to put things right. So, Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
It isnt disputed that there was an internal system issue with UKI which caused the 
payments to fail to be collected. But each time Mrs F contacted UKI, she was given 
conflicting information. This was because despite the direct debit not being collected 
from Mrs Fs account, when she contacted UKI, they said there was no outstanding 
balance. This was because it took some time to actually reflect on the account, which 
I understand was a separate internal system issue.
Mrs F was given a link to make a manual payment each time. I can understand 
Mrs Fs frustration with this repeatedly occurring. She suggested to UKI she pay the 
remainder of the amount owing in one payment, to avoid it happening to future 
payments. So, Mrs F tried to mitigate what was an issue with UKIs systems. But 
despite this suggestion, UKI failed to call Mrs F back to take the payment.
In July Mrs F received another notification that the payment hadnt been collected. 
She contacted UKI to explain again, and ultimately asked for a link to make the 
payment. But this wasnt sent. Mrs Fs policy was subsequently then cancelled.
Our investigator recommended the compensation be increased to a total of £200 for 
the inconvenience caused to Mrs F.
I agree a total of £200 compensation is fair in the circumstances. Mrs F was 
continually inconvenienced by an error with UKIs systems, repeatedly needed to 
contact UKI and received conflicting information. She tried to mitigate this, but UKI 
failed to act on that. And ultimately Mrs Fs policy was cancelled as a result of the 
ongoing issues. Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Ill be directing UKI to pay a total of £200 compensation.
UKI already offered £105 compensation. Mrs F has said she didnt receive £25 of the
compensation and had only received £80, so our investigator said UKI would need to 
pay an additional amount of £120 to take the total to £200. UKI didnt agree with the 
increased compensation, but they also said theyd already sent Mrs F £105.
If my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, Ill be directing UKI 
to pay a total of £200 compensation. Mrs F says that she hasnt received £105 and 
has only received £80. So, unless UKI can show that the outstanding cheque for £25 
has been cashed, theyll need to pay an additional £120. Or if UKI can show it has 
been cashed, theyll only need to pay £95 to take the total to £200.
However, I think there is something else which needs to be done beyond 
compensation to put things right too, which wasnt considered by our investigator. 
The policy was ultimately cancelled. UKI says it issued a 14-day warning of 
cancellation notice, so UKI says they havent acted unfairly in relation to this.Having considered what happened, this notice was sent on 31 July 2023 which was 
the same day Mrs F contacted UKI to query her payments and she was told this was 
up to date and the payment had been applied for. She was told that it could take a 
week to fail and UKI would be in contact if that happened. But later that same day, it 
did fail and she was written to with a 14 day cancellation notice. So given it was the 
same day, I think this would have caused confusion.
Mrs F then contacted UKI on 10 August 2023 to raise this, which was before the 
policy was due to be cancelled, and she asked for a payment link to pay the 
outstanding amount. However, this wasnt then sent by UKI and the policy was 
cancelled.
UKI recognises this payment link wasnt sent, but they also said that as Mrs F didnt 
respond on time the chat was closed. However, the internal notes from UKI say that 
conversation was auto-closed and should have been returned to the queue and 
picked up the following morning, but that didnt happen.
So, it does look like this should have been followed up by UKI but wasnt. But in any 
event, I cant ignore the fact that the cancellation was directly linked to the internal 
issue which was causing payment problems which were no fault of Mrs F. Mrs F had 
contacted UKI each time and received conflicting and unclear information. And Mrs F 
tried to mitigate future issues by offering to pay for the remainder of the policy, but 
UKI didnt act on that which resulted in the future issues, and ultimately the 
cancellation.
Mrs F has taken a policy elsewhere, so doesnt need this policy reinstating. But from 
my understanding she was asked to pay £39.10 following the cancellation. And UKI 
said this was made up of a time on risk charge and a cancellation fee but hasnt been 
clear how thats been calculated or what the fee charges are.
I dont think charging for time on risk is unfair, as the policy provided cover for that 
period. However, given the chain of events which ultimately resulted in the 
cancellation, I dont think it is fair or reasonable for UKI to charge a cancellation fee. 
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing UKI to waive the cancellation fee. If Mrs F has already paid 
this, theyd need to reimburse this, with 8% simple interest added from date of 
payment to date of reimbursement.
Given the policy is for business protection, its unclear whether UKI records the 
cancellation for non-payment internally or externally. But if it has been, this should be 
amended to show as cancelled by Mrs F rather than UKI, so it doesnt impact her in 
the future in the same way a policy cancelled by an insurer for non-payment may do.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct UKI to increase the total 
compensation to £200, waive the cancellation fee, or if Mrs F had already paid it, reimburse 
it with 8% simple interest added. I also said that if the cancellation was recorded internally or 
externally as cancelled by UKI for non-payment, this should be amended to reflect it was 
cancelled by Mrs F.The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs F responded to the provisional decision and said she agreed with it. She also added that 
she had already paid the cancellation fee in September 2023.
UKI also responded and said they had nothing to add in response to the provisional 
decision. They also said they would check which cheques had and hadnt been cashed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, and as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart 
from my provisional decision, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, 
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line for Business to:
Increase the total compensation to £200
Reimburse the cancellation fee with 8% simple interest* added from date of payment 
to date of reimbursement
If the cancellation is recorded internally and externally as cancellation by UKI due to 
non-payment, amend this to reflect that it was cancelled by Mrs F
*If U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line for Business considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs F how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman