DRN-3749705
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that, when they planned to use their Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) to buy a property, they were told by Mattioli Woods Plc (MW) that they 
needed to submit a change of use (from residential to commercial) application for it to be 
suitable for the SIPP. 
But it later transpired that they needed to make the property uninhabitable, which required 
the vendor to make alterations before the SIPP could buy the property.
Mr and Mrs T have said that MW allowed them to commit funds to the property purchase 
before it had informed them of the very specific requirements to render the property 
commercial. And when it did finally inform them of the requirements, it was at a very late 
stage and was vague, with different suggestions being proposed and then withdrawn, until 
specific instructions were eventually received.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T began the process of buying the property through the SIPP in July 2021. On 1 
July 2021, Mr T emailed MW and asked the following:
The property was marketed as a mixed use property and I believe that all or at least
part of the property is currently residential (there was a successful planning application
in 2007 to change the ground floor of the property from office use to residential).
Our intention is to use the entire property as a commercial property from the outset.
What steps would we need to take to be able to buy the property.
Clearly we will have to apply for a change of use at some point. Does this process have
to be completed before we can complete the property purchase? Is there anything else
we would need to do?
MW responded on the same day, explaining that the pension scheme couldnt hold 
residential property. It also said the following:
If the ground floor could still be deemed to be commercial, the property could be
purchased personally and then a long leasehold could be granted of the commercial
ground floor element to the Pension Schemes.
Any change of use/planning to change to fully commercial would need to be in place
prior to purchase by the Pension Scheme.
If you have any queries please do not hesitate to contact me.
Mt T then sent MW the valuation report on 18 August 2021, subsequent to which there 
followed a series of internal emails relating to the habitable/residential status of the property. 
It was noted by the technical team that, whilst Mr T had applied for planning permission to 
convert the property to commercial usage, it couldnt be transferred into the SIPP in its 
current state.
The technical team said that it assumed that Mr T would be making provisions to make the 
property uninhabitable before the transfer. It added that the presence of a kitchen and a 
bathroom would usually indicate habitable status, and it therefore enquired (internally) as to 
Mr and Mrs Ts plans to remedy this.
In answer to a query from MWs client relationship manager as to whether they would need 
to remove the bathroom (as the kitchen would be altered to a commercial kitchen), the 
technical team said that, as the property contained a residential element, it would need to be 
approved by GTH, but it added that there was little point in providing Mr and Mrs T with all 
the information until confirmation had been received that the planning permission had been 
approved.
The technical team added that the removal of the toilet/bath would likely be sufficient but 
noted that the issue might be that the seller would be unwilling to make alterations to the 
property prior to the sale.
The property was also tenanted, but MW didnt become aware of this until after the title 
report was received from the solicitor on 23 September 2021. At this point, MW set out the 
requirement for the bath/shower to be removed, so as to render the property uninhabitable.
My understanding is that the necessary work was completed and the purchase proceeded.
In a telephone call with MW on 8 October 2021, in which the need to make the alterations 
was discussed, Mr T raised the complaint about not being fully informed of the requirements 
beforehand.
MW replied, saying it was partially upholding the complaint, and apologising for the 
information Mr and Mrs T had received being incomplete. But it explained why the property 
amendments had been necessary, and that it understood that this had now been completed.
Dissatisfied with the response, however, Mr and Mrs T referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said the following in summary:
Although the information provided to Mr and Mrs T in July 2021 didnt provide clear 
instructions as to what would be needed to make the property uninhabitable, Mr T 
could have reverted to MW if anything was unclear.
Mr and Mrs T hadnt made it clear that there were tenants in the property and the 
earliest that MW could have made them aware of the further work which was 
required was when it received the title report.
MW could only act upon the information with which it was provided. And whilst Mr 
and Mrs T felt that the lack of information relating to the remedial work necessary 
jeopardized their investment and the costs involved, the fees which they paid for the 
property purchase would in any case have been an integral part of the process.
Although Mr and Mrs T felt that he information was provided late in the process, and 
was vague, HMRC took a common sense approach to the facts and circumstances of 
each individual case, and MW needed to decide for itself as to the work which would 
be needed to render the property uninhabitable.
It could only have done this once it had become aware that there was a working kitchen and bathroom at the property. This was the earliest point at which it could 
have provided its recommendations on what needed to be done before completion.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
In its July 2021 response, MW failed to mention the specific requirement of rendering 
the property uninhabitable, saying only that the planning permission to convert it to a 
fully commercial property would need to be in place. There was therefore no reason 
for them to revert to MW for further clarity.
When they queried as to why the residential element of the property would have a 
bearing on the timescales for completion, MW explained that this related to the 
possible delays in the panning application. There was no mention of the habitable 
status of the property having a bearing on its residential status.
The tenanted status of the property had no bearing on whether it was deemed to be 
residential. And it was clear that the property was being used for a residential 
purpose from the valuation report. MW should have been aware from both this and 
the description Mr and Mrs T had given it that it was being used as residential 
property.
It remained their position that the requirement to have the bath removed put their 
assets at unnecessary risk. This was in itself entirely outside of their control, as they 
didnt yet own the property. Had MW provided the necessary information at an earlier 
stage, they could have made an informed decision as to whether to proceed.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator, but with some 
different reasoning. Ill explain below.
Firstly, with regard to when MW could first have reasonably informed Mr and Mrs T about the 
requirement to render the property uninhabitable, I think Mr and Mrs T have a point. Whilst 
they certainly received information relating to the planning application and the impact that 
this might have on timescales, I think the information relating to the need for the property to 
be unhabitable was a highly relevant step beyond this.
And whilst Ive noted the investigators comments relating to when MW ought reasonably to 
have first been aware of the tenanted status of the property, I also agree that this is 
something of a side issue. The primary consideration would have been habitability at the 
time the property was transferred into the SIPP. 
Further, I think MW was in any case in a position to let Mr and Mrs T know about the likely 
requirements to render the property uninhabitable, such as removal of the bath/and or toilet. 
This is evidenced by the internal discussion which was held after the receipt of the valuation 
report, and at one point the technical team actually decided that MW didnt need to inform Mr 
and Mrs T of this until the outcome of the planning application was known. 
And so, even if it could reasonably be argued that MW had provided enough information at the outset relating to the requirement for the property to be held within a SIPP, I dont think 
that MW needed any further information than the valuation report to be in a position to 
unequivocally inform Mr and Mrs T of the likely requirements.
But I then need to consider the overall impact here. Mr and Mrs T are, quite understandably 
in my view, upset and frustrated at what they consider to have been the unnecessary 
jeopardization of fees which they would already have paid towards the property purchase 
and that a planned investment was potentially in peril if the vendor didnt agree to undertake 
the necessary alterations. 
But Ive also noted that, in MWs response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, it apologised for not 
providing full information sooner. And I dont think any actual loss has been incurred here. 
Mr and Mrs T have also said that they werent in a fully informed position, which I accept, but 
I dont think theres clear evidence that they would have withdrawn from the property 
purchase. Rather, I think its just a likely, if not more so, having found a property which clearly 
appealed to them, that they would still have proceeded, and simply asked the vendor to 
make the necessary amendments.
So, it seems likely that the same course of events would have transpired, but possibly 
without the worry caused by finding out about the habitability requirement quite late in the 
day.
And as Ive said above, I understand that this will have been concerning to Mr and Mrs T, but 
on the basis that MW has apologised for the delay in the provision of important information, 
which along with my own findings above, I hope will provide some validation to the concerns 
theyve expressed, and that there has been no actual financial loss, I dont think I can fairly 
or reasonably ask MW to do anything more in this instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman