DRN-3356989
The complaint
Mr H has complained about how Phoenix Wealth Services Limited (trading as Phoenix 
Wealth) dealt with distributions paid into his pension account. He feels he has lost out 
financially. He is also unhappy that they didnt transfer his account to another provider, as he 
had requested. 
Mr H is being represented in this complaint but for ease I have referred throughout only to  
Mr H. 
What happened
Mr H held a pension account with Phoenix which was invested in part in the Woodford Equity 
Income Fund (WEIF). In June 2019 the fund was suspended and subsequently formally 
wound up in January 2020. 
Following this the Authorised Corporate Director (ACD) of the fund, a business not related to 
Phoenix, began the first phase of paying out any available capital distributions to relevant 
investors. And in relation to Mr Hs holding, the ACD sent a portion of his share of the capital 
raised to Phoenix to attribute back to his account. 
For Mr H, and any other clients affected in the same way, Phoenix invested these cash 
distributions into the Artemis Income Fund (Artemis) which it says was chosen because it 
closely matched the characteristics of the WEIF. It also made it clear it would continue to do 
this with any further distributions that would follow. 
Phoenix informed Mr H of the action it had taken in February and March 2020. In these 
letters Phoenix included a statement that the fund switch to Artemis had been completed in 
accordance with Mr Hs instructions. This prompted Mr H to ask his advisor to switch into 
another fund. When this fund wasnt available and upon the advisor realising that Mr H had 
not chosen the Artemis fund, a complaint was raised and a request to transfer to another 
provider was made. 
When Phoenix investigated the complaint, it agreed its letters had contained incorrect 
information about what Mr H had instructed it to do. However, they maintained they had 
been instructed to reinvest by the ACD and had acted fairly in investing the proceeds into the 
Artemis fund. They also confirmed that they werent able to transfer the account to another 
provider as it still had a holding in the suspended WEIF. 
Mr H remained unhappy so further communication between him and Phoenix continued and 
after further distributions had been paid from WEIF, they agreed they could transfer Mr Hs 
account to another provider. 
As Mr H remained unhappy with Phoenix he brought his complaint to this Service. He 
reiterated the point that the cash shouldnt have been paid to a fund that he didnt choose 
and didnt think it was fair that the transfer had initially not been accepted. 
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld in full. She felt that it was reasonable for Phoenix to have reinvested the distributions 
as it did. And she was satisfied that the decision not to allow the transfer out due to the 
WEIF holding was a fair one. However, she did think Phoenix had caused distress in their 
communications and by suggesting to the advisor in a letter that Mr H had selected the 
Artemis fund. She was of the opinion that £250 compensation should be paid, which Phoenix 
agreed to.
Mr H didnt agree with the assessment. As no agreement could be reached the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has expressed how unhappy he is Phoenix reinvested his cash distributions released 
from the suspended WEIF, into a fund he didnt choose. He feels Phoenix has made a 
mistake by reinvesting into Artemis. Therefore, any loss suffered by being in this fund should 
be covered by Phoenix. 
However, from everything I have seen, in my view Phoenix didnt do anything wrong in 
reinvesting the money received from the ACD in the way they did. 
When a pension is still in place if anything needs to be paid into it as a result of a redress 
payment born out of an error, the first course of action is always to pay that money back into 
the pension  it is the pension that has suffered a loss therefore it is the pension that should 
be made good again. This is the approach used in this Service and its based on the 
principal of trying, as much as possible, to put a consumer into the position they would have 
been in had the error not occurred. 
I appreciate that Mr H and his advisor are unhappy with the Artemis fund that was chosen. 
However, I am satisfied that Phoenix acted fairly in choosing a fund that they felt was a 
similar fit, attempting to put Mr H back in the position he would have been in but for the 
WEIF issue. It was fair to keep the amount within the pension and I havent seen anything to 
conclude it could have been held as cash within this pension policy. Further, I am not sure 
that would have been the fair thing to do instead of reinvestment with the option of switching. 
The main issue here appears to the be the wording of the letters from Phoenix and that they 
implied to the advisor that Mr H had chosen the Artemis fund to reinvest into. Phoenix 
acknowledge that this wording (on multiple letters) was misleading and agreed to pay £250 
for the distress and inconvenience they caused. I agree that this is fair. I acknowledge that 
the Artemis fund price fell significantly between the distribution payments in January and 
February 2020 and Mr Hs request to switch funds and that Mr Hs advisor was led to believe 
that the fund choice was Mr Hs. However, Mr H also received letters in January and February 2020, which informed him of 
the transaction and his option to switch into another fund of his choice. It was the latter letter 
that prompted a switch request. Whilst I think compensation should be paid for the 
inconvenience, I dont think Phoenix should compensate for the fall in the Artemis fund price 
as Mr H received letters and could have switched prior to the price fall. 
Mr H is also unhappy that his request to transfer this pension to another provider was not 
allowed in June 2020. Phoenix confirmed at the time that this was because there was a 
suspended fund holding and further distributions to come after it was wound up. I think it was 
reasonable for Phoenix to make a choice to allow the transfer or not, and decided they 
wouldnt. I can see that following all distributions Phoenix then decided they would allow the 
transfer. They wrote to the new provider they had received the transfer request from in 
November 2021 and January 2022, explaining a new transfer form was needed. I think 
Phoenix acted fairly here and it was reasonable to contact the new provider for this new 
information. 
In summary, I think Phoenix acted reasonably with the fund choice for the WEIF distribution. 
Whilst their communications were mis-leading, Mr H was still aware of what had happened 
and could have requested a switch prior to the price fall. I think that the £250 offered is 
reasonable in the circumstances. I also think Phoenix acted reasonably in making a decision 
not to allow the transfer as it had a suspended holding and took reasonable steps to 
communicate their later change of decision.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require Phoenix Wealth Services Limited (trading as Phoenix Wealth) to pay Mr H £250, if 
they havent already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman