DRN-3874834
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA hasnt settled a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr S contacted IPA to make a claim on his travel insurance policy when he 
lost his belongings. The claim wasnt closed.
A few months later Mr S went on holiday again. Unfortunately, Mr S was the victim of a 
serious assault which left him with facial and dental injuries. IPA didnt set up a new claim 
and the two incidents were incorrectly dealt with under one claim reference.
Mr S received no support from IPA in relation to his medical expenses and emergency 
assistance. In February 2020 IPA issued a final response letter awarding Mr S £250 
compensation in recognition of the poor service he received.
Mr Ss claim for medical expenses and additional expenses remains unresolved. Mr S made 
a complaint and in January 2022 IPA issued a further final response letter awarding £50 
compensation. The final response letter also made reference to Mr Ss claim for lost 
belongings. Unhappy, Mr S complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought IPA 
should reconsider the claim in full, including the medical expenses and additional costs Mr S 
had incurred. He also recommended IPA pay Mr S 8% simple interest on the settlement of 
the claim.
IPA accepted the investigators findings. Mr S asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
He highlighted the poor service hed received from IPA when he contacted them for help 
after he was assaulted. He also reiterated the physical and mental impact of his traumatic 
experience and how the delays in handling the claim had added to his distress.
In November 2022 I issued my provisional decision. I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint and award further compensation. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the assault which Mr S experienced whilst he was 
abroad and the serious nature of his injuries. Im can understand why this was a 
traumatic incident, particularly when he received a lack of assistance from IPA when 
he needed their help the most.
IPA has awarded Mr S compensation for the service issues he received when he 
complained in 2020. The key issue in this complaint is the settlement of his claim.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I dont think IPA has treated Mr S fairly because:
It ought to have been clear to IPA back in 2020 that they needed to separate 
the two claims (one for the lost belongings and the other for the assault and 
associated expenses).
Having written to Mr S, and offered him compensation in February 2020 for 
the poor service he received whilst abroad, they still didnt split the two cases. 
So, there was ongoing confusion about the cases. For example, even in 
January 2022 IPA were continuing to ask for evidence about Mr Ss expenses 
but under the same reference for the claim relating to lost belongings.
I can understand why this was frustrating and upsetting for Mr S, particularly 
because hed been dealing the claim for some time. And, hed also had a 
poor experience when hed needed help abroad which had already caused 
him to lose trust and confidence in IPA.
All of the above has meant that the claim isnt settled yet. At the time IPA had 
issued their final response letter it was around two years after Mr S had been 
assaulted.
IPA has agreed to our investigators recommendation to settle the claim in 
line with the policy terms. Mr S will still need to provide evidence of his 
financial losses to IPA to consider. I note that the policy does cover 
curtailment for injury and that Mr S returned home early from his holiday. So 
that ought to be something that IPA considers as part of its assessment, in 
addition to the other costs Mr S is claiming. If Mr S is unhappy with the final 
settlement figure, once the claim has been assessed, that would need to form 
part of a separate complaint.
I think that IPA should do more to put things right. In addition to the interest I 
think they should pay Mr S a further £200 for the significant delay in 
assessing and settling this claim  thats in addition to the £50 payment thats 
already been made. The delays in resolving this claim have caused him 
additional distress and inconvenience. For example, the delay in settling the 
claim has continued to remind him of his traumatic experience abroad and 
hes had to explain a number of times that hes not trying to claim for the lost 
belongings from October 2019.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct IPA to put things right by:
Assessing the claim and settling it in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr S ought to be aware that its likely hell need to submit medical evidence 
and proof of financial loss if hes not already done so.
Paying 8% simple interest per annum from the date the claim was submitted 
to the date of settlement. If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest it should tell Mr S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Paying Mr S a further £200 for the significant delay in handling his claim and 
the distress and inconvenience its caused.IPA didnt make any additional comments on my provisional decision. Mr S responded to say 
that £200 seemed derisory. He made a number of comments about the assistance that he 
received following the assault he experienced whilst abroad. He set out in some detail the 
lasting impact that the lack of support from IPA has had on his physical and mental health. 
He said that he remained thousands of pounds out of pocket and felt abandoned by IPA. He 
also explained that hed spent over 50 hours dealing with this issue and had moved house 
twice since the claim was made. He expressed concern about being able to provide 
evidence of his financial losses. 
Our investigator clarified that IPA had issued a separate final response letter in 2020 
addressing Mr Ss concerns about the medical assistance and repatriation. He explained my 
decision would focus on the settlement of his claim, which was the subject of this complaint. 
So, I now need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ss further comments. Having done so Im still satisfied that £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. I say that because: 
Many of Mr Ss further representations related to the poor service he received whilst 
abroad, his repatriation and the impact of the service he received during that time. 
Thats not something I can consider as part of this complaint because it was 
considered by IPA as part of a different complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision I have, however, taken into account the 
additional distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S when IPA was handling the 
settlement of his claim. In doing so Ive considered that this came at a time when 
hed already lost trust and confidence in IPA, following a serious assault. 
I appreciate that Mr S has spent a lot of time dealing with his claim. I think £200 
compensation fairly reflects this. The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt usually 
make awards for someones time or calculate it using a set amount, such as an 
hourly rate. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to compensate Mr S at an 
hourly rate as hes requested. And, in making an award of £200 Ive taking into 
account the inconvenience Mr S has experienced when spending his time dealing 
with his claim. 
Mr S has explained that its now been some time since the claim. And, hes moved 
house more than once. So, hes concerned that he will struggle to provide some of 
the information IPA will need. Its for a policyholder to demonstrate that theyve 
experienced a financial loss. But, given the circumstances of this case, Id expect IPA 
to take a pragmatic view of the claim when settling in line with the policy terms and 
limits. 
My award takes into account whats happened so far in the handling and settlement 
of Mr Ss claim. If Mr S remains unhappy with the settlement of his claim, and any 
subsequent handling of it, its open to him to make a further complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S feels an award of £200 is derisory. I acknowledge hes been 
through a very difficult time. But, based on the evidence available to me, I think an 
award of a further £200 is sufficient to put things right. Putting things right
I direct IPA to put things right by:
Assessing the claim and settling it in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr S ought to be aware that its likely hell need to submit medical evidence 
and proof of financial loss if hes not already done so.
Paying 8% simple interest per annum from the date the claim was submitted 
to the date of settlement. If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest it should tell Mr S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Paying Mr S a further £200 for the significant delay in handling his claim and 
the distress and inconvenience its caused.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and directing Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman