DRN-4113000
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has made a series of 
mistakes, which have prevented her from dealing with a debt she has with it.
To resolve matters shed like the bank to refund all the interest and charges it has applied 
over the last 6 years and pay £6,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
What happened
Miss R took out a business loan (as a sole trader) with NatWest several years ago. She 
closed her business and was left with an outstanding debt from the business loan. 
Miss R brought a complaint to our service in 2021 about NatWests handling of the loan. In 
January 2022, an ombudsman issued a final decision on that complaint. He upheld it and 
ordered NatWest to carry out a settlement to put things right. This included recalling the debt 
from a third-party debt collection company, contacting Miss R to arrange a repayment plan, 
and removing adverse information recorded from August 2020 from her credit file.
NatWest recalled the debt so that it was under its management. This was completed in July 
2022.
Miss R raised new complaints. She didnt think she had been given relevant information to 
allow her to set up a repayment plan which was stopping her from dealing with the debt. She 
felt NatWest had been deliberately delaying things, resulting in the application of 
unnecessary interest, and causing her significant distress and inconvenience, as she 
repeatedly tried to get engagement to resolve the matter. 
NatWest responded to the complaint. It noted within Miss Rs complaint that she wanted all 
her interest and fees back, but it didnt think this was warranted. It explained that the 
ombudsman that had issued his decision in January 2022, had already considered this 
because there was reference to this point in the original complaint and no direction had been 
given on this as part of the redress.  
The bank made an interest adjustment to the debt on 4 October 2022 for £457.96 to cover 
the period 31 May to 4 October, due to the delays in getting the debt back. But aside from 
this, it didnt think it had made any mistakes. It provided the telephone number for its 
Specialised Business Management Team to allow Miss R to discuss the debt.
Miss R asked us to look at her complaint because she didnt think the response was 
satisfactory. She was concerned that she still hadnt been able to pay anything towards the 
outstanding debt and felt NatWest was responsible for the difficulties. One of our 
investigators took a look at what had happened and reached the following conclusions:
- They noted an ombudsman had issued a final decision on Miss Rs previous 
complaint where they had said Miss R was liable for the outstanding balance. So, 
they couldnt consider the interest charged before the decision. 
- They could look into what had happened subsequent to the decision. 
- They accepted there had been delays in recalling the debt from the third-party, as the 
available evidence suggested this hadnt been completed until July 2022. The 
investigator noted that the bank had offered Miss R £50 to say sorry for some of the 
service issues shed been having over this period. But considered this should be 
increased by another £50 to reflect the actual impact of the initial difficulties caused 
in dealing with the debt.
- The investigator thought the interest adjustment by the bank in October to be fair 
because it covered the amount of interest charged during the delays in getting the 
debt back. They pointed out that before then no interest had been charged (between 
the period January and 30 May 2022). So, they didnt recommend a further interest 
adjustment or refund be made. 
- Beyond this, the investigator didnt think that NatWest had made a mistake. She 
noted there had been some contact from Miss R but the evidence also showed 
NatWest had been proactively contacting her between July 2022 and February 2023 
to discuss a repayment plan with no ultimate success, before getting to the point of 
issuing a formal demand for the loan. 
The investigator also relayed some information from NatWest. She said it hadnt removed 
the adverse information from the credit file in response to the previous ombudsmans 
decision. It had explained that it could remove the existing default that was there but unless 
Miss R was in a position to act on the default notice now and make sufficient repayment to 
the loan, this would only result in a new default being recorded. This would remain on her 
credit file for longer (until 2029) whereas the current default would fall off in 2026.
NatWest accepted the investigators recommendations to pay Miss R a further £50 to 
resolve the complaint. But Miss R did not. She responded to say that she wanted a refund of 
the interest over the period she had been trying to deal with the debt. The investigator didnt 
change her mind, so the complaint has to me for a review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Parameters of this decision
Miss R remains unhappy about the interest charged on her debt over previous years. But I 
must stress that I cant consider or comment on that issue. Because another ombudsman 
has issued a final determination on her previous complaint and in that they decided she was 
liable for the outstanding balance. Miss R accepted the decision. So, it follows I wont be 
revisiting that. I simply have no power to do so.
I cant also deal with the direction made by the ombudsman on Miss Rs previous complaint 
dealing with the removal of the adverse information that was recorded. The investigator has 
given Miss R further information about it and its up to her to evaluate it and decide what she 
would like to do (if anything). However, I make no finding about this issue here. However, 
more generally where a default is removed and there are arrears on the account, this will 
usually trigger a new default.
Interest applied nowMiss R is aware that interest is being applied to the outstanding balance. Ive seen no 
compelling evidence why this shouldnt be the case as contractually this was an interest-
bearing loan. 
Dealing with the outstanding debt 
I appreciate there are practicalities involved in retrieving a debt back from another company, 
but the time taken to complete the process did take a long time. And initially Miss R was 
contacting the bank. That said, the bank has now proposed to pay her £100 (in all) to cover 
any distress and inconvenience this caused. I dont think thats unreasonable. It recognises 
Miss R had to contact it several times, which would have both been frustrating and 
inconvenient. 
In addition to this, I see NatWest has already made an adjustment to the debt to refund the 
interest Miss R was charged over the relevant delays, which is exactly what I would have 
expected. Ive checked the loan statements and the adjustment of £457.96 covers the 
interest charged from 31 May to 4 October 2022. No interest was charged before that during 
January to 30 May 2022. So, with this in mind, Im satisfied the overall offer to pay £100 
along with the interest adjustment (already made) is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Accepting there were some delays as above, Ive gone onto consider what happened once 
the debt was back in the banks management. Miss R says that she still hasnt been able to 
deal with the outstanding debt and believes NatWest is responsible. But having reviewed the 
available evidence I dont entirely agree. Ive examined the contact notes from July 2022 and 
also contacted the bank to understand the current position. While there has been some 
occasional contact from Miss R, NatWest has made a number of reasonable attempts to 
contact her. There have been several conversations but unfortunately an income and 
expenditure assessment hasnt been fully completed. At times some calls have disconnected 
and when the bank has tried to call back, it hasnt been able to get hold of her. 
A fully completed and up-to-date income and expenditure assessment is required to decide 
what Miss R can afford to pay and its not unreasonable to say this is done over the phone. 
Without a detailed discussion matters cannot move forward because the bank needs to have 
a clear understanding of her financial situation to avoid any plan failing. So overall, I find no 
error on NatWests part. And it follows theres no basis for requiring further interest to be 
refunded.
NatWest has provided a telephone number which Miss R can call to complete a new income 
and expenditure assessment and I would strongly urge her set aside some time to go 
through this with it. I will ask the investigator to relay the number. Or if she prefers NatWest 
can call her as previously attempted.   
£50 cheque
Ive said above that the banks offer to pay £100 is fair. But note that the first £50 it offered 
was sent by cheque in July 2022. This cheque will be out of date now. NatWest has agreed 
to raise a new one and when complying with my decision it should pay the directed amount 
of £100 in total (as set out below).
Im sorry to disappoint Miss R. But this brings to end what this service can do to help in 
relation to this complaint.    My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Miss R £100 to settle the 
complaint. I make no other award or direction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman