DRN-3122250
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) were inefficient in dealing with his 
mortgage application.
What happened
Mr J had a mortgage with Santander. In April 2020, Santander agreed to port his mortgage 
to a new property he was aiming to buy. On 8 June 2020, Mr J called Santander and said he 
and his wife had found a different property, a new build and decided to purchase that instead 
 so he wanted to port his existing mortgage to that one. No new lending was needed as his 
original mortgage was sufficient. 
On 10 June 2020, Santanders mortgage adviser called Mr J and went through his 
application for a mortgage on the new property, and an illustration for a mortgage of £89,658 
was sent the same day. Santander instructed the valuation of the new property on 16 June 
2020  it was done on 3 July 2020. Mr J sold his old house on 3 July 2020 and moved out in 
anticipation of getting into his new property at the same time. However, because of further 
requirements of Santander, and delays in the valuation being completed, the mortgage offer 
for the new property was issued on 15 July 2020, and on that day he completed the 
purchase and moved in. 
Mr J complained. He said hed received texts and calls from Santander  to say everything 
was going ahead. And so - he arranged for the sale and purchase of the properties for 3 July 
2020. He said that on each call he made to Santander  he was told things were moving 
satisfactorily. But  then he found out that the valuation hadnt taken place as it should have. 
He said he was told that this would take place on 3 July 2020  so he then moved out of his 
old house. But the valuation didnt take place until that afternoon  and it wasnt sent to 
Santander until 6 July 2020. He said the valuation didnt take place before then because 
Santander had given the valuers the wrong address. And then  after the valuation had been 
done, there were more delays in getting Santander to accept the warranty certificate that had 
been issued. As a result, Mr J and his wife had to spend almost two weeks in hotels or 
rented accommodation. He said this cost £848.63, plus restaurant meals. He worked from 
home  so his job was disrupted. He said that he and his wife had suffered a lot of stress as 
a result  and were so upset about what had happened - that they were now going to move 
from the new house.
Santander said there were delays because they still held the address of Mr Js first purchase 
on their system  for which they apologised. And when the valuation report was produced, 
they found the property was covered by a Professional Consultants Certificate (PCC) and 
not a full warranty. This didnt meet their criteria and so they added extra clauses to it to 
ensure that it was acceptable. Once that had been done, their mortgage offer was produced, 
and completion took place on 15 July 2020. They said that as Mr J only told them about the 
new purchase on 8 June 2020  this only allowed four weeks to completion. And they 
couldnt guarantee that a mortgage offer could be issued in that time. But they accepted 
there had been delays which meant that completion on 15 July 2020 was later than it 
couldve been. But they said that a completion by 3 July 2020 was never going to be 
possible. So, they paid compensation of £350, plus half of Mr Js accommodation costs - 
£424.13.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into what happened, and he said 
that Santander had dealt with Mr Js complaint reasonably. He thought that the delay in the 
valuation was explained by restrictions on visiting property due to COVID restrictions in 
place at the time  Santander had told us that was the cause of the delay, not an error in 
using the wrong address. On the subject of the warranty, it was for Santander to set their 
own lending policies  and this meant they didnt accept the first version of the PCC. But 
also  this was on the advice of a professional surveyor  and Santander had to accept what 
he told them. Overall, the timescales that Mr J set himself to port his mortgage to a new 
property were always going to be very tight. He had chosen to move to a new house without 
having a mortgage offer. There were several factors which caused the delays, but these 
were out of Santanders control.
Mr J didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three parts to Mr Js complaint: the overall time he set himself to get the mortgage 
in place; whether he was encouraged by Santander to go ahead with the move; and whether 
the valuation of the property caused an unnecessary delay.
Overall timescales
Mr J called Santander on 8 June 2020 to say that hed changed his mind about the property 
he was going to buy  and that he had found a new build. He could complete that purchase 
without borrowing any more money  and so he just wanted to transfer his existing mortgage 
to the new property. In general terms, Mr J may have thought it was reasonable to complete 
within four weeks  as he wasnt borrowing any more money. But Santander still needed to 
complete their normal underwriting checks, together with a valuation of the property. In other 
words, they treated it as if it were a new mortgage. I think this was reasonable  its standard 
industry practice to do that. Ive listened to the call on 10 June 2020  and the mortgage 
adviser said the mortgage would need to be re-approved, and that a valuation would also 
be needed.
So  I think its fair to say that it was always going to be a challenge to get things in place 
within four weeks. When Mr J called Santander on 8 June 2020  he said time restricted 
with this one  so I think Mr J was aware things would be tight. And in their final response, 
Santander also said they wouldnt commit to a four-week timescale  and I didnt find any 
evidence that they did. And I need to bear in mind that we were at the start of a global 
pandemic when many businesses were adjusting to permanently working from home. 
Also  I didnt find any evidence that Mr J said clearly to Santander that he was looking to 
complete so quickly. Ive listened to the calls on 8 June 2020 and 10 June 2020 (two calls) - 
and there wasnt any mention of a completion date of 3 July 2020. The first mention of 
urgency was on a call on 19 June 2020  when Mr J said, Im concerned (as) moving date 
is in two weeks. So  I dont think that until then  Santander were aware of his intentions. 
Mr J went ahead and arranged to sell his old house and move on 3 July 2020 without having 
received a formal mortgage offer. He was sent a mortgage illustration on 10 June 2020  but 
this was not an offer as it said, This document does not constitute an obligation for Santander UK plc to grant you a loan.  I think Mr J was aware he needed a mortgage offer 
as on the call on 19 June 2020  he asked, where is the mortgage offer?.  I think its fair to 
say that its not advisable for a consumer to agree to sell an existing house and move out of 
it - without having a formal mortgage offer in place for the new property. And it wouldve 
been for his solicitor to advise him of this and the risks associated with proceeding without 
formal funding in place. 
Communications with Santander
Mr J has said that he was told by Santander that everything was proceeding satisfactorily, 
without any problems  and therefore he arranged to sell and move out of his old house on 3 
July 2020, thinking he would get the new mortgage in place in time. Ive listened to seven 
calls between 8 June 2020 and 3 July 2020 and reviewed also the texts that Mr J received. 
In a text on 11 June 2020  Santander said . your application has been approved, subject 
to some final checks and confirmation of the property value. And in the call on 19 June 
2020  Mr J asked where the mortgage offer was  and the call hander said it would be sent 
after the valuation was completed. He went on to say, we are waiting for the valuer to get 
access to the property to do the valuation. And then, on 29 June 2020, Santander left a 
message to say (we are calling) to advise the valuer is trying to get accesswe can then 
get you an offer So  while Santander were giving Mr J updates on the progress of his 
mortgage application, they didnt commit to providing the mortgage by 3 July 2020. And  
they also advised Mr J that there were possible delays with the valuation, and that an offer 
couldnt be given until it took place. 
Valuation of the property
Mr J told us that Santander were slow to value the new property as they had the address on 
file of the previous purchase that he had stopped. Ive looked at what happened. Santander, 
in their final response, suggested the valuation was arranged on the previous property  and 
on the call on 25 June 2020, there was some confusion as Santander said they were trying 
to contact the original valuer. This suggests there were some delays caused by Santander  
as Mr J has said. But looking at Santanders records  they clearly show the valuation was 
instructed on 16 June 2020, and on the new property that Mr J proposed to buy. So  there 
wasnt a delay caused in the way Mr J suggests. 
The valuation didnt take place until 3 July 2020  because of the restrictions in Scotland in 
accessing properties due to the COVID rules. Ive looked at these and the restrictions were 
only lifted on 29 June 2020. And the valuation was then arranged and carried out on 3 July 
2020  which was in the same week. Mr J called Santander on 3 July 2020 to chase the 
valuation  he was told it was taking place on that day. On the call, Mr J believed that 
completion could take place on the same day as the valuation  but Santander told him it 
would then have to be sent to them to look at. I didnt find any evidence that Santander told 
Mr J that he could move house on the same day as the valuation. It was sent to Santander 
on 6 July which was the next working day  so I think that was reasonable. 
There was then a delay because the valuer said the property was covered by a Professional 
Consultants Certificate and not a warranty  so further clauses had to be added to the 
certificate to increase the cover. Mr J has said that this wasnt necessary  but this was done 
on the recommendation of the professional valuer, and Santander had to be guided by that 
advice. And - its not for us to challenge Santanders lending rules  and so if they required 
the cover to be increased, thats a matter for them. 
I can see that Mr J had a difficult moving experience. Santander accepted some 
responsibility for some delays and have paid Mr J a total of £774.13  this was 
compensation of £350, plus half of Mr Js accommodation costs - £424.13. In the circumstances of this case, I think thats a very fair way for Santander to have settled Mr Js 
complaint  and so I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman