DRN-2666519
The complaint
Mr B as director of D complains that D was refused a mortgage as The Mortgage Works 
(UK) Plc said that Mr B was in breach of the mortgage terms and conditions in an existing 
buy to let mortgage. Mr B wants the application fee returned and wants TMW to confirm he 
isnt in breach of his current mortgage conditions.
What happened
Mr B had an existing TMW mortgage secured on a buy to let property. In 2019, D applied for 
new mortgage on another property. TMW refused to proceed as it said that an existing 
property owned by Mr B with a TMW mortgage was being used as a house in multiple 
occupation (HMO). It said that a condition of that mortgage was that the property should 
used as a single Assured Shorthold Tenancy (AST). TMW said that this was because the 
two persons on the AST were only using the upstairs room and there was a question as to 
the use of the ground floor which had a separate bathroom. Mr Bs broker challenged this 
explaining that the ground floor was used for filing. TMW then refused the mortgage on the 
grounds that the use was for commercial or personal use, again in breach of the buy to let 
terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as the conclusions 
reached by TMW werent unreasonable. Mr B disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully read the file and can see that Mr B is annoyed that, having improved the buy to 
let property and had a good relationship previously with TMW that he feels his integrity is 
being questioned by TMW. His company D made an application for a buy to let mortgage 
and TMW in considering the application did a review of its existing lending to its director Mr 
B. As the company was controlled by Mr B this review doesnt seem unreasonable. The 
review indicated to TMWs underwriter that the house was being used as a HMO. That has 
been a matter of dispute between Mr B and TMW including about the interpretation of the 
what is a HMO. TMWs evidence was that the AST applied only to the upper floor and to two 
tenants when there had previously been three and TMW assumed from a property website 
that a single room was being let. The application was declined in October 2019.
Mr B disagreed and appealed through his broker saying that the bottom floor was being used 
for Mr Bs filing. The underwriter considered that and was of the view that this was either 
filing for a business in which case the use was commercial or filing for personal use in which 
case the use was residential. Either way, the underwriters conclusions were that the use 
was in breach of the terms of the buy to let mortgage and, so, the application was declined. I 
see from the notes that, internally, in view of Mr Bs good history with the lender that at the 
beginning of November, the underwriter was asked to look at the application again but 
reiterated that the letting had changed from the original use and was in breach of the terms 
of that letting. 
It seems clear that TMW refused the application because it was unhappy that Mr B had 
altered the use of the property from what had been agreed in the original buy to let mortgage 
and that this was a breach of the terms agreed between them. Its not unreasonable for TMW 
to consider how an existing mortgage is being managed in relation to new lending. So, I 
dont consider that TMW was doing anything wrong in doing so. Although Mr B may disagree 
with the conclusions, TMW seems to have acted fairly by considering the evidence it had 
originally and again on appeal. But I appreciate Mr B, having improved the property and paid 
his mortgage responsibly, was annoyed that this reflected against him.
TMW then seems to have revisited the issue in December 2019 and although its position 
was that it had correctly declined the application said that it wouldnt raise these objections in 
a future application. What seems to have swayed the underwriters view is that TMWs 
lending criteria had changed so that it could consider multiple ASTs in a property if the 
objection had been the use of the property as a HMO. Secondly although it now accepted 
that Mr B was using the ground floor for personal use and that this was contrary to the terms 
of the buy to let usage that it was now comfortable in the particular circumstances of this 
case with that. 
Although Im very sympathetic to Mr B, it doesnt seem to me that I can fairly uphold this 
complaint. The matter was looked at on several occasions by TMW and there does appear 
to have been a technical breach of the terms of the mortgage. But, on reflection, TMW 
agreed that if things stayed as they are, that this wouldnt impede a future application by Mr 
B or his company. That seems a sensible outcome of this complaint. I can see that Mr B is 
unhappy with aspects of TMWs service after this complaint was made but Im unable to 
consider those as part of this complaint. So, for the above reasons, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman