DRN-2698951
The complaint
Mr O complains about a decision Nationwide Building Society made to block his online 
banking access. 
What happened
Nationwide blocked Mr Os access on 29 October, following some large transactions on his 
current account. Mr O says he tried to call the number he was given when that happened, 
but wasnt able to speak to anyone. On 30 October, Mr O visited his local branch of 
Nationwide, and his online banking was unblocked.
In response to Mr Os complaint, Nationwide felt theyd acted reasonably to block the 
account. They also felt Mr O could have unblocked the account over the phone if hed waited 
on the line a little longer, or tried a different number, found on their website. Despite this 
position, Nationwide paid Mr O £25, to help restore his goodwill. 
Mr O wasnt happy with this response, so he brought the matter to us. He added that he 
thought it unreasonable that the other telephone number Nationwide had suggested he use 
would have cost him money to call. 
Our investigator explained why he felt Nationwide had acted reasonably in this case. Mr O 
didnt agree with that view, so the complaint has come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
I appreciate Mr O disagrees with Nationwides decision to block his online account. The 
payments he was making, using his money, were authorised by him. But I can also 
appreciate why Nationwide had concerns. Mr Os statements show transactions that day 
involving relatively large amounts of money entering and leaving his account, leaving the 
final balance of the account a lot lower than it had been. 
So I find it was reasonable for Nationwide to have a suspicion things might not be quite right. 
Once they had that suspicion, Id expect them to act on it. There are legal requirements for 
them to do so. And acting would have protected Mr Os money, if there had been a 
fraudulent transaction taking place.
The action Nationwide took looks proportionate to the suspicion they had in this case. If this 
had been a fraud in some way, whoever was doing it must have been able to compromise 
Mr Os online banking security. Until Nationwide could rule that out, blocking the online 
banking access was a reasonable step to take, even though it left Mr O without as much 
access to his money.
Ive not got any records showing Mr Os attempts to call Nationwide to sort things out. But Ill 
accept he may not have been able to get through to speak to someone immediately. 
Businesses do sometimes have times when the demand for their services means people 
have to wait in a queue to speak to them. Its for a business to review this, over longer 
periods than Im looking at in this case, to decide what a reasonable level of resourcing is to 
have in place. 
For my decision, I find it reasonable that there were other options available to Mr O when the 
first number he tried didnt reach someone straight away. Therere no rules that say a 
business must offer a free-to-call number to speak to them. And the branch Mr O visited was 
open, despite the current pandemic, for people who didnt want to wait on the phone. 
Im satisfied that Nationwide did enough to allow Mr O to resolve the suspicion they had 
quickly. The extra effort he needed to put into doing that was proportionate to Nationwides 
concerns, which could have affected thousands of pounds of Mr Os money, if thered been a 
problem. 
As such, I find theyve treated him fairly and reasonably in this case. While Nationwide have 
paid Mr O £25, I see that as the goodwill offer they intended it to be, rather than something 
they needed to do to put something right. Theres nothing further Nationwide need to do in 
this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman