DRN-3029290
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mrs M says the PPI was mis-sold. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. So to keep things simple Ill refer below to AXA, rather than any other business.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
AXA has told us Mrs M paid less than £4 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Ms representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs M has said the PPI was just included on her card. But she took the card around ten 
days before the date on which AXA and Mrs M agree the PPI was sold. Also her card 
application form shows she didnt sign for the PPI when signing for the card. Instead, 
AXA says the PPI was sold to Mrs M by phone afterwards. In cases like this where AXA 
sold the PPI after the card had been taken, the sale was usually by phone. So I think this 
is how the PPI was sold here.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a recording of the sales call. This isnt surprising given 
the time that passed between the sale and Mrs Ms complaint. AXA also hasnt any call 
scripts from the time of this sale. But the scripts for later sales suggest AXA offered 
customers the PPI and asked whether they wanted it before it was added. Also I bear in 
mind Mrs M had her card already at the time of the PPI sale, and from that she may have 
been aware that she didnt have to have the PPI in order to have the card. 
So, taking everything into account, on balance I think its more likely AXA made it clear 
Mrs M didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think it likely she wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered - so it looks to me like 
she wanted this type of cover. Also nothing about her job or employment wouldve made 
it hard for her to claim. 
Mrs M couldnt have claimed if the health issues shes told us shed had in the past had 
kept her off work in future  and the policy also contained limitations or exclusions on 
claims relating to back and mental health conditions. But in what she told us when she 
brought us her complaint, Mrs M didnt mention having had any time off work for the two 
issues shed been treated for more than ten years earlier  also I take into account how 
long before the sale those issues started. Also what she told us about the issues she 
was treated for around four years before the sale doesnt make me think it likely Mrs M 
wouldve thought that work absences from these issues exceeding 30 days were so 
likely in future that cover that excluded such absences would no longer be worth taking.
With all this in mind, I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for Mrs M and, 
bearing in mind her work benefits and lack of other means, it also seems like the benefit 
wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong in the circumstances the policy 
covered. Also it looks from the cost like the PPI was affordable  and I dont think Mrs M 
wouldve agreed to it without a broad idea of the cost. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, I dont think her decision to take the cover wouldve changed if AXA had told her 
more about this. Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs M wouldve declined 
the cover had AXA done more in terms of the information it provided.
Overall, I consider Mrs M wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman