DRN-3861074
The complaint
Ms O complains that Black Horse Limited irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2019, Ms O acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Black Horse Limited (Black Horse). Ms O was required to make 48 monthly repayments of 
£149.56, with a final optional payment of £2,888 if she wanted to keep the car at the end of 
the agreement. She paid a deposit of £565.38. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£10,668.88.
Ms O ended the agreement early in October 2020 when she paid it off with the help of a 
relative.
Ms O says that Black Horse didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Black Horse didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included obtaining details about Ms Os income, 
housing costs and level of debt owed elsewhere. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Black Horse didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Ms O didnt agree and said she had an overdraft at the time and was having to borrow 
money elsewhere. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
From what Ive seen, Ms O provided details of her annual earnings as being £16,800 at the 
point of application for the agreement. Black Horse made use of credit reference date to 
check this and her monthly costs but didnt take steps to actually verify Ms Os income 
before approving the finance. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly 
repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for 
Black Horse to have done so to ensure it was affordable.
Also, Black Horse didnt ask Ms O about her expenditure. Although it did complete a credit 
check, taking into account her estimated expenditure, this wouldnt have indicated in enough 
detail what Ms Os regular living expenses and other committed expenditure were. Without 
knowing more about these, I dont think Black Horse would have been able to gain a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt 
complete proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Ms O would have told Black Horse had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Black Horse needed to request bank statements, but in the 
absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in the 
three months of statements Ms O sent us as an indication of what would most likely have 
been disclosed. These show that Ms Os regular committed monthly expenditure at the time 
was just over £1,000, taking into account money need to pay for her housing costs, 
insurance and food as well as existing committed expenditure. At the time her average net 
monthly income was around £1,600. Taking these figures into consideration, I agree with our 
adjudicator that it appears to show the monthly payments under the agreement would have 
been affordable to Ms O. 
Ms O has disagreed with our adjudicators findings. She says her monthly income varied and 
didnt always include the overtime which was included in her pay prior to taking out the 
agreement. But even if her income fluctuated, had Black Horse carried out better checks its 
likely the information available at the time would have shown the loan to be affordable at that 
time. Ive also kept in mind that Ms Os prior credit record was generally good, especially in 
the six months leading up to the agreement, with no recent adverse markers on her credit 
file. So I dont think Ms Os overall level of borrowing would have necessarily indicated the 
agreement with Black Horse was unaffordable. And whilst Ive also noted that Ms O was 
making regular use of her overdraft, which is not ideal, from what Ive seen there isnt 
enough evidence to suggest that her overall financial position was at risk of worsening if she 
took on the additional lending. I still consider it likely she would have been left with enough 
disposable income for the agreement to be affordable. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded that Black Horse acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
Your text here For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman