DRN-2043348
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bradford & Bingley Plc didnt advance all of the money he originally 
applied for when taking out a mortgage and wont now do so as the account has been 
redeemed. He believes he may have paid back money than he didnt actually borrow.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in January 2000. He initially applied to 
borrow £19,000. 
As part the application Bradford & Bingley instructed a valuation of the property the 
mortgage was to be secured against. The valuer indicated that they felt work needed to be 
done to the property and estimated the cost to be £2,000. As a result, when it agreed to the 
mortgage Bradford & Bingley only advanced £17,000 to Mr S. It held the remaining £2,000 
he applied for under a retention. It has said it explained this money would be released when 
it was notified the recommended work had been completed.
Mr S borrowed a further £10,500 from Bradford & Bingley in 2007. The amount held under 
the retention wasnt part of these funds. Mr S repaid his mortgage and the further advance 
in full in 2017.
Mr S complained to Bradford & Bingley in 2019 that it had never advanced the £2,000 held 
under the retention. He was unhappy as he felt he had paid this amount back plus interest 
without ever having the benefit of it.
Bradford & Bingley said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the retained funds 
had not been requested previously and it had never been made aware that the remedial 
work had been completed. And as the mortgage was repaid in 2017 it said it couldnt release 
the money now.
Mr S asked our service to look into his complaint. One of our investigators looked at whatd 
happened. He didnt think Bradford & Bingley had made an error by not releasing the 
retained funds as it hadnt been notified of the required work being completed.
Mr S remained unhappy that he had potentially repaid money that he hadnt received, plus 
interest. So, he asked for an ombudsman to consider matters.
Our investigator explained to Mr S more recently that account statements and transaction 
history wed seen indicated that Mr S hadnt repaid the amount retained and had only repaid 
the amount advanced.
We didnt receive a further response from Mr S. As he previously indicated he was unhappy 
with the investigators opinion and wanted the matter to be reviewed the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bradford & Bingley has provided an extract from the mortgage offer. This confirms that 
£17,000 of the £19,000 applied for was to be sent to Mr S solicitor upon completion of the 
purchase with £2,000 retained. So, I think it made Mr S aware that not all of the money he 
initially applied for was being made available upfront. 
Bradford & Bingley has also provided copies of the contact notes it holds relating to Mr S 
mortgage. I can see there is no record in these notes of it having been notified that remedial 
work had been completed or a request for the retained funds to be released while the 
mortgage was in place. And Mr S hasnt provided anything to suggest he did contact 
Bradford & Bingley about this before 2019. On balance it appears therefore that Bradford & 
Bingley wasnt notified the conditions of the retention had been met before the mortgage 
ended. So, I dont think it made an error by not advancing the £2,000 while the mortgage 
account was open. And as the account has now been redeemed, I dont think it has acted 
unreasonably by declining to release those funds now.
Mr S has said he is unhappy that he has repaid money, with interest, that he was never 
provided. But having reviewed the account history and statements provided by Bradford & 
Bingley, which show the running balance on the account, it doesnt appear to me that Mr S 
has repaid more than was advanced to him or that interest was applied to the £2,000 held on 
retention by Bradford & Bingley. I can understand why Mr S was initially concerned about 
this. But from the information available, I dont think he has repaid the amount retained  so 
hasnt suffered a loss. So overall, I dont think Bradford & Bingley has made an error.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman