DRN-3540755
The complaint
Mr H and Miss S are unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited has declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr H took out an annual travel insurance policy to cover his family. On 11 
March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic and on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
On 19 March 2020 Mr H booked flights to a country Ill refer to as N. He travelled with his 
family to N on 21 March 2020 and intended to return in April. Due to the impact of Covid-19 
Mr H says he was stuck in N until September 2020. Mr H made claims for various expenses 
including accommodation, car hire and medical expenses. The value of the claims made 
was over £100 000. 
Astrenska agreed to cover some medical expenses but declined to cover the other 
expenses. Mr H complained but Astrenska maintained their decision to decline the claims for 
other costs. They issued three final response letters to Mr H. In summary, they said there 
was no cover under the policy because Mr H had travelled against FCDO advice and after 
the WHO had declared a pandemic. They also said that the trip had extended beyond the 
limit of 45 days set out in the policy and that there was no section of cover which offered a 
benefit in such circumstances. Unhappy, Mr H complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think there was cover under the policy for the circumstances in which Mr H and his family 
found themselves. She also highlighted that there was an exclusion in the policy for claims 
arising from known circumstances. Mr H provided more information and our investigator 
looked into the further points theyd raised. However, the further information didnt change 
her thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint. As Mr H didnt agree he asked an 
ombudsman to review the case. In summary, he says that there is cover available under the 
policy. He also said out the FCDO advice didnt apply to his family and, in any event, they 
travelled for essential reasons. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Astrenska has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mr H has made a number of points but Ill focus on those I consider to be relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
The policy terms show that there is cover for Catastrophe. It says: 
We will pay up to the limit shown in the summary of cover for extra accommodation 
and transport costs, if during your trip you are forced to move from your pre-booked 
accommodation as a result of fire, flood, earthquake, storm or medical epidemic. 
You are not covered 
For circumstances already known at the date you bought your policy or booked your 
trip (whichever is later).  
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Even if I considered that there was cover under the catastrophe section I cant 
fairly conclude that Astrenska should pay this claim. The catastrophe section has 
an exclusion relating to known events and I think that exclusion applies in the 
circumstances of this particular case for the reasons Ill explain
If Mr H and Miss S could have reasonably anticipated that theyd need to make a 
claim then the exclusion means it isnt covered under their policy. Mr H and 
Miss S travelled to N after the WHO declared Covid to be a global pandemic and 
after the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. They also 
travelled at a time when there was widespread travel disruption and multiple 
countries were imposing restrictions and lockdowns in response to Covid-19. So, 
I think Mr H and Miss S could have reasonably anticipated that their travel plans 
could be disrupted before they left on their trip and that they may need to claim 
on their policy 
Ive taken into account that Mr H and his family were not UK citizens and what 
theyve said about not being bound by FCDO advice. Theyve also said that their 
travel was essential. But that hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of 
this complaint. I say that because even if Mr H and his family werent UK citizens 
they had been living in the UK and, as Ive outlined above, were travelling at a 
time when the impact of Covid-19 was already widespread. So, I think they could 
have anticipated a need to claim, even if they werent bound by the FCDO advice 
or were travelling for what they considered to be essential reasons
I understand that Mr H and Miss S made a choice to travel, taking into account 
what was best for their family circumstances, including relatives living in N. But I 
also have to take into account that they travelled at a time when Covid-19 was 
spreading rapidly and impacting upon international travel. So, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that they could have anticipated needing to make a claim 
as a result of travel delay and disruption 
Mr Hs trip wasnt cancelled or cut short  it was extended due to travel disruption 
linked to Covid. So, I dont think theres any cover available under the 
cancellation or curtailment sections of the policy
Ive also taken into account the travel delay section of the policy. This offers 
cover in the event that the flight is delayed for more than 12 hours due to strike, 
industrial action, adverse weather conditions or a mechanical/technical fault. So, 
Mr Hs claim doesnt fall within this section of cover either
The missed departure section of the policy offers cover in the event that the 
vehicle a policyholder is travelling in breaks down, the vehicle was involved in an 
accident, there is delay as a result of a major incident on the motorway or public 
transport being used is delayed. I dont think Mr Hs claim falls within this section of the policy. They were forced to stay abroad due to the impact of Covid-19 on 
their flights, which were cancelled a number of times. And thats not covered by 
this section of the policy 
I appreciate that Mr H feels that our service has relied on different reasons for the 
complaint not to be upheld. But our service has an inquisitorial remit and I also 
take into account whats fair and reasonable. So, he feels its not fair for the 
investigator to not make a finding about the reason Astrenska gave for declining 
the claim. In any event, Im not persuaded by Mr Hs arguments that hes not 
covered by FCDO advice because of his nationality. The policy is designed to 
cover trips starting and ending in the UK. The policy was issued in the UK and is 
designed to protect residents of the UK. Mr H told us that he was living in the UK 
and he originally booked a flight to return back to the UK. So, I can see no reason 
why the FCDO advice, and the exclusion relating to travelling against it, wouldnt 
apply to him. And, as Ive outlined above, there are also other reasons to reject 
Mr Hs complaint 
Finally, Mr H has argued that the reason for travel was essential. Mr H said that 
the factors which prompted the decision to travel included the looming lockdown 
in the UK, the impending closure of Ns borders, the safety of his parents and the 
greater risk of exposure to Covid-19 in the UK. But its the introduction of the 
FCDO advice which triggers the exclusion in the policy as opposed to whether 
Mr H travelled for essential reasons. So, this also doesnt change my thoughts 
about the overall outcome of the complaint.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman