DRN-2519046
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M complain about the sale of their whole of life policy, by                               
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). Amongst other complaint points, they say that they 
could have got a cheaper policy elsewhere, were told they had to take the policy out, should 
have been advised to take an alternative policy instead, and werent aware of the policys 
reviewable nature.   
What happened
In this complaint, Ms J and Mr M have made a number of detailed points and Ive considered 
all those carefully. But, I have set out below the issues I think are key in this complaint and I 
have focused on them only in making my decision.
Ms J and Mr M took out a reviewable whole of life policy at the same time as a mortgage, in 
July 1997. The initial sum assured was £117,500. This was the amount of the mortgage less 
the amount of life cover that they already had in place elsewhere. The policy premium was 
£102.10 per month and critical illness cover was included. 
The initial policy provider and administrator was a separate entity, but an arm of RBS at the 
time. Following a review by the regulator, this policy was topped up in July 2002. 
The policy also passed a review in 2002. However, it failed reviews in 2007 and 2012, 
meaning a higher premium was required to maintain the sum assured. The policy 
administrator didnt receive a response to these failed reviews. So, life cover ceased in 2013. 
In 2019, Ms J and Mr M changed their address with the policy administrator. It was after this 
that they say they finally got information on the policy reviews that had taken place. 
Ms J and Mr M complained to RBS that the policy had been mis-sold to them. They said that 
they werent aware of the policys reviewable nature. They also complained that they already 
had life cover in place, could have got cheaper cover elsewhere, were made to take this 
policy out and should have been recommended a different policy. 
Ms J and Mr M also complained that RBS were aware at the time the policy was sold, of 
potential failings at the insurer. They say that the subsequent review by the regulator shows 
that this policy shouldnt have been sold. 
RBS looked into the matter and agreed that the policy was mis-sold. They acknowledged 
that a more common recommendation alongside a mortgage would be a fixed term policy, 
and that a term assurance policy to match the term of the mortgage alongside a critical 
illness cover policy, would have been the more suitable recommendation. 
However, RBS said that Ms J and Mr M had not lost out financially, taking into consideration 
the policys surrender value.  
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator didnt agree that the policy had 
been mis-sold. He said that Ms J and Mr M had confirmed that they didnt want a fixed term 
policy. He also said that they had policies elsewhere so were aware of cheaper alternatives. 
Ms J and Mr M didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that they didnt 
need the policy that was sold to them. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms J and Mr M that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So, I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
My role is to decide if RBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in recommending 
the policy. And I dont believe it has done so. 
I have considered the suitability of the advice to recommend a whole of life policy alongside 
a mortgage. In this circumstance where the liability has a fixed term, I would usually expect 
the cover sold to protect it, to also have the same term. As opposed to this policy, where the 
cover lasts as long as the premiums are paid. From the paperwork provided, I can see that a 
fixed term policy was recommended at the point of sale but rejected by Ms J and Mr M. They 
have also confirmed this was the case. I am therefore satisfied that the policy that RBS did 
recommend, was suitable. 
RBS has also said that whilst a fixed term policy should have been sold, Ms J and Mr M are 
financially better off with a whole of life policy. This is because when a cost comparison was 
done, they hadnt lost out financially when the surrender value was taken into consideration. 
They have provided a breakdown of costs to support this. Therefore, I cannot say that Ms J 
and Mr M have lost out financially by being recommended this policy. 
The policy has failed reviews and Ms J and Mr M have said that they werent made aware 
that this might happen. However, I have been provided with the policy documentation that 
would have been given at the time the policy was sold. The policy terms explain that it is a 
reviewable policy and what this means. The Key Feature Document, issued at the point of 
sale, made clear that premiums are reviewed from time to time. You may find you have to 
pay more in the future for the same level of life cover. 
The same document also said If the Fund has performed well, there will normally be no 
need to increase your premiums or reduce your level of life coverIf the Fund has not 
performed well. *previous business name* may require you to increase the premium or 
reduce the level of life cover. Whilst I appreciate that Ms J and Mr M didnt receive a copy 
of any of the policy reviews that happened, I still believe that the policy documentation 
from the time of sale quite clearly explains the reviewable nature, and I cant say that they 
were not made aware of this.   
Where information or evidence may be missing, I need to consider what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened, on the balance of probability. Ms J and Mr M have said that they 
were told that they had to take this policy out. However, I havent seen enough to satisfy 
myself that was the case. Ms J and Mr M were required to have cover in place to obtain the 
borrowing (the majority of the borrowing was covered by policies already in place, with other 
providers). I am also satisfied that Ms J and Mr M were aware of alternate and cheaper 
policies that they could have, as they had such policies in place. 
Ms J and Mr M are also unhappy that this policy was sold in 1997 when the financial 
regulator was investigating the insurer. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
advisor was, or ought to have been, aware of this. Or that if they were, that was a reason 
why this policy should not have been recommended. The regulator confirmed that this was an issue of systematic mis-pricing. The regulator review ordered a plan correction in 2002, to 
take account of mis-pricing. 
Ms J and Mr M are also unhappy that they havent received any information from the insurer 
regarding this policy since inception, including the outcome of policy reviews. I understand 
that this will be very frustrating and a separate complaint regarding the insurer is being 
considered. However, I havent seen enough to conclude that RBS did anything wrong in 
regard to the details it gave or should have given to the insurer. I know Ms J and Mr M feel 
that as this policy was assigned to RBS at inception, they could have been done more to 
help locate them and update them on the policy. However, I cant say that RBS were aware 
there was an issue or that they didnt do anything that the deed required of them. 
Since the complaint has been awaiting a decision, Ms J and Mr M have also provided some 
further information that has become available to them, which they say highlights that this 
policy was mis-sold. The proposal was initially rejected by a quality unit at the business, with 
a quote that it may lead to a significant complaint in the future. 
RBS has responded to this to say there were details such as incorrect dates that needed 
rectifying and that is why the quote was made and not because the quality unit felt that the 
policy was mis-sold. I am satisfied that this is the case and the review was highlighting 
administrative errors rather than an unsuitable policy. 
Overall, I think this policy was largely suitable for Ms J and Mr M given their specific 
circumstances and taking into account that they have said that they rejected the 
recommendation of a fixed term policy. I also believe that the reviewable nature of it was 
explained sufficiently and were aware of cheaper alternatives. I know Ms J and Mr M will be 
disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to 
resolve their dispute with RBS  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman