DRN-1679396
 
The complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr M says he shouldnt have been given any lending as it was unaffordable for 
him. 
 What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mr M between January 
2018 and July 2019. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 12/01/2018 15/03/2018 12 (monthly) £1,000.00 £166.00
2 04/07/2019 Outstanding 12 (monthly) £1,000.00 £166.00
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. The adjudicator didnt think it would have 
been proportionate for Satsuma to have asked Mr M for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr M disagreed. He said he was using other short-term credit providers at the same time 
that he borrowed from Satsuma. As a result, he shouldnt have been given the loans.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. 
It asked Mr M about his income and expenditure. He confirmed he had a monthly income of 
£2,200 for loan one and £1,544 for loan two. After taking into account his outgoings his 
disposable income for loan one was £1,680 (which Satsuma reduced to £1,060 after making 
its own checks) and £1,244 for loan two (reduced by Satsuma to £637) for loan two. And 
using these figures for its income and expenditure checks, Satsuma deemed the monthly 
repayments of £166 for both of the loans to be affordable to Mr M. 
And given these were the first loans Mr M had taken with Satsuma, I think the checks it 
carried out were sufficient at such an early period in the borrowing relationship. I wouldnt 
have expected it to have carried out any further in-depth checks or taken additional steps to 
verify the information it had. I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to have relied upon that 
information in making its decision about whether to lend to Mr M. 
I do accept its possible that Mr Ms financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in the 
information he provided, or the information Satsuma obtained as a result of its own checks  
in response to the adjudicator Mr M said he was using other short-term credit providers. If 
this was the case, Mr Ms actual financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained.But Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont think it reached 
the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr M. From the 
information available, the loan repayments appear to be affordable and sustainable for Mr M. 
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans were 
proportionate and it was reasonable for it to have concluded the lending was affordable for 
Mr M. I think its decision to lend to Mr M was reasonable. 
I appreciate my findings are likely to disappoint Mr M, but I hope my explanation will help him 
understand how Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman