DRN-4322188
The complaint
Mr C and Mr W are unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has declined a claim made
under their landlord let property insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to Ageas below, this also includes any actions or communication by the
agent handling the claim on Ageas behalf.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr C and Mr W reported a claim for storm damage to their let property to
Ageas, their insurance provider. The tenant had made Mr C and Mr W aware of an ingress
of water from the roof which had caused damage internally to the property.
There was a delay in Ageas inspecting the property and damage. Following the inspection,
Ageas declined the claim for external damage to the roof as they said the cause was likely to
be wear and tear. However, Ageas ultimately accepted the internal damage under the
accidental damage cover on the policy.
Mr C and Mr W provided comments from their own roofer who said it was storm damage
externally. But Ageas claim decision remained the same. However, they accepted the claim
had been delayed and the service had fallen short, and they paid £150 compensation.
Mr C and Mr W have since had their roof repaired at a cost of £5,520 and they want Ageas
to cover the cost of this. As Mr C and Mr W remained unhappy with Ageas position, they
approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that if Ageas
was relying on a wear and tear exclusion to decline the claim, they needed to demonstrate
the exclusion applied. But she didnt think they had, so she said they couldnt rely on the
wear and tear exclusion to decline the claim. Therefore, she said Mr C and Mr Ws claim
should be covered, and Ageas should reimburse the costs they incurred in carrying out the
roof repairs, with 8% simple interest added.
Additionally, the investigator said that as she was satisfied there was a valid storm damage
claim for the external damage, the internal damage should also be dealt with as storm
damage, rather than accidental damage.
The investigator also said she recognised the service fell short, but the impact of the
damage would have been to the tenants rather than Mr C and Mr W. But for the
inconvenience Mr C and Mr W had been caused, she thought the £150 compensation
already paid by Ageas was fair, so she didnt recommend this be increased.
Ageas said they accepted that there was insufficient information to demonstrate wear and
tear or that the exclusion applied, so they agreed they shouldnt have declined the claim on
this basis.
However, Ageas also said the claim should still have been declined, but on the basis there
was no evidence of storm damage externally, so Mr C and Mr W hadnt shown an insured
event had occurred. So, they said the claim for the roof repairs wouldnt be covered in any
event.
Our investigator maintained the claim should be covered. And as an agreement couldnt be
reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
Where a policy covers insured events such as fire, flood, or in this case storm 
damage, the onus is on the policyholder to show an insured event has occurred. If 
the policyholder shows an insured event has occurred, and the insurer wishes to 
decline the claim, the onus is then on the insurer to show an exclusion in the policy 
applies.
The investigator was persuaded an insured event had occurred, so they said the 
onus was then on Ageas to show the exclusion of wear and tear applied. Whilst this 
general principle is correct, I dont agree with the investigators conclusions that 
Ageas needs to show the exclusion to decline Mr C and Mr Ws claim in these 
specific circumstances. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr C and Mr Ws policy. And it does 
cover storm damage. However, whilst Ageas declined the claim as they said it was 
likely wear and tear over time, there isnt actually an exclusion in the policy for wear 
and tear, either against the specific covered event of storm (only loss or damage 
caused by freezing or to fences, gates and hedges is) or in the general exclusions, 
which apply to the whole policy.
So, in principle if Mr C and Mr W had shown there was an insured event of storm 
damage, Ageas would need to deal with the claim, unless they could demonstrate an 
exclusion which was actually in the policy terms applied. However, I dont think 
Ageas needs to do anything further at this stage. Ill explain why.When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Our investigator said the answer to all three questions was yes so she said the 
claim should be covered. However, Im not minded to agree.
It isnt disputed that storm conditions occurred on or around the date of loss, so 
question one is satisfied. But I dont think question two or three can be answered 
yes based on all the information and evidence provided by both parties.
Ageas inspected the roof and concluded:
No storm damage noted to the roof above so wear and tear appears to be 
the cause
This was the extent of the findings, so in itself isnt particularly persuasive as there is 
no detail or explanation. Ageas recognised this too, so asked for further information 
from the surveyor who carried out the inspection. And they explained:
The property has a flat-top roof comprising of felt stuck down with bitumen 
and covered in chippings. On inspection its clear that water is ingressing 
through the roof covering. A camera on a pole inspection did not reveal any 
signs of storm damage. The likely cause is a split in the felt (most likely under 
the chippings, but it was not possible to see this) allowing water to ingress 
into the bedroom underneath. The policyholder has had someone up to 
attempt to resolve it, they have stuck down further felt on top of the existing 
felt but this hasnt stopped the water ingress. The roof covering appears much 
older than the 10 years that most felt roofs are guaranteed for and we suspect 
a split in the felt is the cause of the damage. This is caused by expansion and 
contraction of the roof covering over a long period of time.
This again isnt overly persuasive, as they have said what could cause a possible 
water ingress, but it wasnt something they had seen specifically here. So, they have 
said more generally what could happen with a flat roof rather demonstrated what has 
actually happened.
However, I also dont think this demonstrates there is damage to the roof caused by 
a one-off event of storm  and thats the insured event being claimed for under the 
policy by Mr C and Mr W.
Ageas havent been able to identify any damage as none was visible, hence why 
they have considered what may have happened instead. And the photos taken by 
Ageas at the time also dont show any storm related damage from what Ive seen. I 
do note that a temporary repair to the edges of the roof was undertaken by 
Mr C and Mr W prior to this inspection, but there arent other images of any one-off 
storm related damage.After Ageas declined the claim, Mr C and Mr W provided comments from their own
contractor who said:
After looking at the roof on (the insured property address) the overall roof is 
in good condition for its age and I can see that there is extensive damage 
from a storm, and a large section of the roof area needs to be fixed. Please 
see my attached quote for the cost to repair but this may not fully cure the 
leak. So really it needs an extensive area to be repaired in order to fix the 
issue with the roof been (sic) flat.
And their quote to repair said:
Undertake extensive repairs to stop leak and improve condition of roof to 
prevent any future potential leaks.
Cost: £5600+VAT @ 20%
Whilst this does say extensive storm damage, they havent said what damage, how it 
was damaged by a one-off storm, or any other information. And as I say, the only 
images Ive seen dont show any visible (or extensive) storm damage either. Instead, 
it says an extensive area needs to be repaired, and needs work to improve the 
condition and prevent future water ingress. This indicates that there is potentially a 
wider issue with the roof rather than being damaged by a single one-off storm  
which is what the insurance policy covers.
When Mr C and Mr W first reported the claim, they also said:
Can someone check it is the roof I think it must be as its old and coming up 
in places but better to be sure as I have no idea on roofs?
So, this would also indicate that the roof is potentially suffering a longer-term historic 
issue, rather than a single one-off event of damage, caused by a single event of 
storm  which there needs to be for an insured event to have occurred.
Therefore, whilst it would be for Ageas to demonstrate an exclusion applied to 
decline a storm damage claim, this would only be relevant after it had been shown by 
Mr C and Mr W that there had been a one-off event of storm damage  as thats the 
claimable insured event under their policy. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
thats been shown, so an insured event hasnt been demonstrated, and it isnt for 
Ageas to show an exclusion applies in the absence of an insured event in the first 
place.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the response to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude Ageas has acted fairly by declining the 
claim for external damage.
Ageas has accepted the internal damage under the wider policy cover of accidental 
damage. Mr C and Mr W have said they think Ageas should be paying for this rather 
than being dealt with as a claim under their policy. They say this because there was 
a delay in Ageas handling of things, and they say damage occurred during this time.
However, I do need to take into account that the reason Mr C and Mr W first reported 
the claim was due to the tenant making them aware of an ingress of water from the 
roof causing damage internally. So, this wasnt due to Ageas. And Mr C and Mr W 
carried out a temporary repair, which didnt resolve the issue either.With this in mind, Im satisfied Ageas isnt solely responsible for the internal damage. 
A claim would have always been needed to be made as the water entering the 
property causing damage was what originally brought an issue with the roof to the 
attention of Mr C and Mr W. And in the absence of any external damage as a result 
of a one-off insured event of storm, I dont think Ageas is unreasonable in dealing 
with the internal damage as an accidental damage claim under the policy. And the 
cost of repairs has been covered by Ageas under this part of the policy.
Ageas recognised the service provided overall fell short. And I can see there were 
some delays in the initial inspection, claim progression and Mr C and Mr W had to 
regularly chase for updates on the claim. But I think the compensation Ageas has 
already paid for this is fair and reasonable, so I dont intend on directing them to 
increase this.
Mr C and Mr W also say that they were told the claim would be covered and the 
decision was changed several times. But from what Ive seen, it appears the internal 
damage was declined and later accepted, but the external damage was declined and 
that decision was maintained. And instead, Ageas said what information would need 
to be provided in order for them to re-review things, rather than saying it would 
accept the claim regardless as long as a report was provided.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint or to direct Ageas to do anything further.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ageas responded to the provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr C and Mr W responded and said they were disappointed with the provisional decision.  
They said that the claim decision changed and question why Ageas had passed the claim to 
a third party to handle. They said Ageas didnt go onto the roof to inspect it, and instead 
relied on a camera on a pole, whereas their roofer actually went onto the roof. They also 
said that everyone accepts there was a storm, so surely this must be storm damage.
Mr C and Mr W said they had to carry out a temporary repair due to the time things were 
taking, and they wasted a lot of time contacting Ageas and dont think £150 compensation is 
sufficient. They also said there are differing opinions between Ageas and their own roofer, 
and as there were storm conditions, they should at least receive a percentage of the repair 
costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr C and Mr W, 
my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
I explained our approach to storm damage claims and complaints in my provisional decision. 
We ask three questions, and if all answers are yes, then its likely a claim will succeed. But 
if any are no, then unfortunately it wont.I agree there were storm conditions (as does Ageas). However, for storm damage to be 
covered, the damage would need to be consistent with storm type damage, and the storm 
would need to be the dominant cause of the damage being claimed for. So just because a 
storm occurred, it doesnt mean that any damage discovered around that time is covered 
regardless.
I considered how the inspections were carried out and the comments provided by both 
Ageas contractor and Mr C and Mr Ws roofer and took this into account when reaching my 
provisional decision. And I explained why I didnt think all three storm questions could be 
answered yes, and my thoughts on this remain the same and for the same reasons, so I 
wont repeat that again in full here. For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, 
having considered everything both parties provided, Im satisfied that Ageas has acted fairly 
by declining the claim.
Mr C and Mr W have questioned why a third party handled matters on Ageas behalf. This is 
fairly common practice across the insurance industry, insurers will often appoint experts to 
act on their behalf in assessing damage and validating a claim.
I do recognise the service Mr C and Mr W received from Ageas during the claim fell short, 
and whilst I acknowledge Mr C and Mr W dont think £150 compensation is sufficient, Im still 
of the view this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, so I wont be directing Ageas 
to increase the amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman