DRN-4433266
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a personal contract purchase agreement 
with N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr B was supplied with a used car through a personal contract purchase 
agreement with Northridge. He part-exchanged his existing car for £19,000, paid an 
additional cash deposit of £6,500, and the agreement was for £30,112 over 49 months; with 
48 monthly payments of £439.39 and a final payment of £17,425. At the time of supply, the 
car was almost four years old, and had done 43,566 miles (according to the MOT record for 
9 March 2022).
On 19 August 2022, Mr B suffered an engine failure which meant the car became 
undrivable. The manufacturer offered to replace the engine but required Mr B to contribute 
20% of the costs towards this. Mr B wasnt happy with this, and he complained to Northridge. 
However, Northridge didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr B brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the evidence showed a fault with the car, but Mr B had been told it had 
been caused by him taking the car off-road. However, the investigator said that, not only was 
there no evidence that Mr B had taken the car off-road, but the car he was supplied with was 
both marketed and sold as being an all-terrain vehicle. So, while the investigator accepted 
there was damage to the car, he thought the evidence pointed to it being longstanding and 
present when the car was supplied to Mr B.
The investigator said the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B, 
and that Northridge should do something to put things right. So, he said they should allow Mr 
B to reject the car, refunding his deposit and any payments hed made since 19 August 
2022, as well as refunding his tax and insurance payments, reimbursing him for the 
diagnostic costs hed paid (all with statutory interest), and pay Mr B an additional £300 for 
the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr B agreed with the investigator, but Northridge didnt. And they provided a report by an 
independent engineer dated 16 October 2023. Despite the car being at a third-party garage 
and available for inspection, the engineer didnt inspect the car itself, and relied entirely on a 
vehicle inspection report dated 19 August 2022.
Based on documentation alone, the engineer concluded that the engine had most likely 
failed because Mr B failed to adequately maintain it (there was no oil in the car and it needed 
9 litres of AdBlue when it was inspected on 19 August 2022) and there was no evidence to 
suggest that the engine has an underlying issue when sold as it would not have covered 
[4,517 miles] between 07/03/22 and the 19/08/22.
Northridge said that the independent engineer was the expert on this matter and was 
considerably more qualified to assess the merchantable quality of the goods than the FOS 
and they asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a 
personal contract purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
which means were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Northridge are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Northridge can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr B to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Northridge to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 16 October 2023, the main 
points of which have been referred to above. The engineer also confirmed their duty is to the 
courts, not to the person who instructed or paid for the report.  
However, this report wasnt based on an inspection of the car, but instead on an examination 
of the documents provided by Northridge, specifically the vehicle inspection report of 19 
August 2022. So, while I acknowledge the engineers expertise on this matter, I also need to 
consider that his opinion is one based on the interpretation of documentation, and not on the 
examination of the car. So, as the key issue here is the fault with the car, in this instance, I 
will be placing more weight on any reports based on an examination of the car than I will on 
reports based on the consideration of documents.
Ive seen the report of 19 August 2022 that the independent engineer relied upon to reach 
his opinion, and this mainly consists of a checklist of systems that were or werent checked, 
and a few lines about what was found. As the independent engineer said, this report did say 
the car needed 4 litres of oil and 9 litres of AdBlue. And, from this, the engineer concluded 
the car hadnt been adequately maintained.However, the vehicle inspection report also said there were oil leaks to the front and rear of 
the car and that there were no fault codes in the system. Had Mr B driven the car without 
adequate oil / AdBlue, I wouldve expected warning lights and the associated fault codes to 
be present. But theres no evidence they were. So, when taking this into consideration with 
the presence of oil leaks, I think this is a more likely indicator of a sudden catastrophic failure 
than the car being persistently used without adequate lubrication.
Whats more, Ive also seen the video that was produced at the time of this inspection, which 
the independent engineer makes no reference to. This shows the braking system was badly 
corroded, as was the underside of the car. The oil leaks are clear and there is damage to the 
underside of the car at the rear, around the fuel tank, with the shield having been hit and 
pushed up. The shield and areas of damage were also badly corroded.
Given this, and that the independent engineer didnt examine the car to identify the cause of 
the oil leaks, Im not satisfied that the conclusion that the engine failure resulted from Mr Bs 
failure to adequately maintain the car, and that there was nothing to show that there was a 
fault with the car when it was supplied, is safe to rely upon.
Following the report of 19 August 2022, the manufacturers dealership who carried this out 
said the engine needed replacing, but only 80% of the cost would be covered by the 
warranty. Leaving Mr B with a bill of £3,583.14 for the engine and £2,540.68 for the repairs 
to the braking system.
In a letter dated 2 December 2022, Northridge told Mr B that the damage to the car may 
have been as a result of the goods being taken off-roading and because of this they didnt 
accept liability for this. And they asked Mr B to obtain a report from an independent engineer 
to demonstrate the car was of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
However, as the engine failed within six months of supply, the CRA implies its for Northridge 
to prove the car was of a satisfactory quality, and not for Mr B to prove it wasnt. Whats 
more, Northridge refused to accept the report dated 19 August 2022 as proof of a fault  the 
same report they were later happy to accept as sufficient (and the only) evidence that 
needed to be seen by the independent engineer they instructed, in lieu of an actual 
inspection of the car.
While the damage to the underside of the car could indicate it was caused by the car being 
used off-road, the amount of corrosion showing in the video would indicate that this was long 
standing damage, and not something thatd just occurred. Whats more, while I havent seen 
anything that shows me the car was damaged due to being used off-road, I have noted the 
manufacturer produces cars that can be used off-road, and the particular model provided to 
Mr B is advertised as being an all-terrain vehicle i.e., its designed to be used off-road. As 
such, if Mr B had chosen to use the car off-road, this would be considered a reasonable use 
of the car.
Based on everything Ive seen; Im satisfied the most likely cause of the engine failure is due 
to one of two scenarios:
1. The car suffered some damage, possibly due to being used off-road, that caused a 
subsequent catastrophic and immediate loss of oil that resulted in engine failure. 
Given the amount of corrosion to the underside of the car, Im satisfied that this 
damage was present when the car was supplied to Mr B. OR
2. The car suffered a catastrophic loss of oil that resulted in engine failure for some 
reason other than the damage to the underside that was present when the car was 
supplied to Mr B. As the car was less than five years old, and had done less than 50,000 miles, such a failure would not be something that could be reasonably 
expected. Which means the engine wasnt sufficiently durable.
While the exact cause of the engine failure isnt known, either of the two scenarios Ive 
described above means that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr B. And Northridge need to do something to put things right.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. However, 
section 23(2) of the CRA states:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must 
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer
Given that the engine failed in August 2022, within six months of the car being supplied to Mr 
B; and given Northridge insisted that Mr B prove the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied, and the CRA implies its for them to do the opposite; Im satisfied that 
Northridge have unreasonably delayed any repair and have thereby failed to comply with 
Section 23(2)(a) of the CRA. In these circumstances, Mr B should be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
The car has been off the road and undrivable since 19 August 2022, since which date Mr B 
hasnt been supplied with a courtesy car. As such, he was paying for goods he was unable 
to use. For the reasons already stated, Im satisfied the car was off the road due to it being 
of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and as Northridge failed to keep Mr B 
mobile; Im satisfied they should refund all the payments he made since the date of the 
engine failure.
Mr B has provided evidence of the £396 cost hes incurred in having the car inspected on 19 
August 2022. There is also an indication that there may be outstanding recovery and 
inspection costs of £1,082. Given that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied, 
I think its only fair that Northridge reimburse / pay these costs.
While Mr B wasnt able to use the car since 19 August 2022, he still continued to pay road 
tax and car insurance. Had Northridge acted within a reasonable timeframe, and in line with 
the CRA, the car would either have been repaired and put back on the road, or Mr B 
wouldve been allowed to reject it. However, as this wasnt the case, I think its only fair that 
Mr B is reimbursed these costs.
Finally, its clear that Mr B has been significantly inconvenienced by whats happened. So, I 
think Northridge should compensate him for this. The investigator had recommended 
Northridge pay him £300, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no 
recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my 
final decision.
Therefore, Northridge should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B (which includes covering any storage costs that may 
have been incurred as Mr B was unable to drive the car);
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Bs credit file;refund the £25,500 deposit Mr B paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds 
paid through a dealer contribution, Northridge is entitled to retain that proportion of 
the deposit);
refund any payments Mr B has paid since 19 August 2022;
upon receipt of evidence of payments, reimburse Mr B with the road tax and car 
insurance costs hes incurred since 19 August 2022;
reimburse Mr B for the £396 inspection costs hes incurred;
upon receipt of evidence that the £1,082 inspection and recovery costs were either 
paid by Mr B or remain outstanding, reimburse / pay these costs;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds and reimbursements, calculated from 
the date Mr B made the payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr B an additional £300 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Northridge to take off tax from this interest, Northridge 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about N.I.I.B. Group Limited. And they 
are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman