DRN-3022166
The complaint
Mr G complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) misled him into 
believing he was due further compensation for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
I can see the adjudicator set out in detail the background and circumstances leading up to 
this complaint, which arent disputed. So I wont repeat all of this again here. But to help Mr 
G understand whats happened and when, I will summarise what I consider the key points to 
be:
Mr G made a PPI mis-selling complaint to Canada Square in 2013 in relation to a credit 
card. Canada Square upheld this complaint and offered compensation, which Mr G 
accepted and payment was made.
In 2013 Canada Square reviewed Mr Gs previously rejected PPI mis-selling complaint 
from 2008 about loan account ending 829. It upheld the complaint and offered 
compensation, which Mr G accepted and again payment was made.
In July 2019 Mr G appears to have employed the services of a Claims Management 
Company and made PPI mis-selling complaints to Canada Square about his credit card 
and three loan accounts. Because these complaints were made in the run up to the PPI 
complaint deadline of August 2019, Canada Square acknowledged and set up new 
complaints for each product.
Over the course of the next few months, Canada Square replied to these complaints in a 
series of letters. I will expand on some of the detail below  but in summary Canada 
Square said that it had upheld Mr Gs credit card and one loan PPI complaint in 2013 
and paid Mr G compensation. It enclosed copies of the correspondence from 2013 
including the offer and settlement forms. In separate correspondence it summarised the 
position of all three of Mr Gs loan accounts  it repeated that it had upheld one loan and 
said the two other loans didnt have PPI, so there was nothing to pay back.
Mr G made a number of phone calls to Canada Squares general helpline following 
receipt of its replies, in an attempt to seek clarification of the payment of compensation 
he says it had promised him in its recent correspondence.
In December 2019 Canada Square wrote to Mr G to say that no redress was due to him 
because the matter was resolved in 2013.
Mr G complains that he was confused by the many pieces of correspondence hed received 
about his credit card and loan accounts and wasnt sure what hed been compensated for 
and when. And says that he was misled in 2019 into believing he was due further 
compensation.
Canada Square disagrees it has misled Mr G and says its done nothing wrong.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In summary they said they didnt think 
Canada Square had done anything wrong - they thought the complaint response letters from 
Canada Square in 2019 werent misleading and were clear that matters had already been 
resolved in 2013. They said there was no evidence that Mr G had been promised further 
compensation during the phone calls he made  the call handlers had only given general 
advice because they didnt have access to his account details.
Mr G disagrees  he says that while he agrees the phone agents couldnt look into his 
account, which was nevertheless frustrating, he says the letter he received in 2019 clearly 
states that he was due compensation. He asks why would he receive a letter six years later 
if hed already been paid in 2013?
The complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know Mr G will be disappointed by this, Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. My reasons, which I hope Mr Gs finds helpful are set out below.
I can understand why Mr G might be confused about what compensation hes received and 
what product or account it relates to  he has received a number of different pieces of 
correspondence from Canada Square during the course of the middle and latter part of 
2019. But I dont think Canada Square has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in 
its dealings with him or misled him in its communication and correspondence with him. I will 
now set out below why Ive concluded this.
It strikes me that the primary cause of the confusion created here is that in 2019 Mr G 
employed the services of a third-party representative - a Claims Management Company  to 
make PPI mis-sale complaints on Mr Gs accounts with Canada Square that he himself had 
previously made successful complaints about in 2013. So these were in fact predominantly 
duplicate complaints  albeit I accept one loan account hadnt been answered by Canada 
Square previously, but in any event it didnt have PPI attached to it.
To compound matters, because Canada Square received these complaint in July 2019, 
which was very close to the PPI complaint deadline of August 2019 i.e. the last point at 
which a consumer could make a PPI mis-sale related complaint, it set up new complaints for 
his credit card and loans. But I cant say Canada Square did anything wrong here  I think it 
believed it was doing the right thing given the pending PPI deadline date.
Canada Square then replied to each of these new complaints. And looking at the responses 
 in particular Canada Squares reply to Mr Gs credit card complaint in September 2019, 
which appears to be at the heart of his complaint  Im satisfied Canada Square set out the 
position clearly. Im not persuaded it said, implied, or misled Mr G that he was due further 
compensation. 
Canadas Squares letter said that it had previously assessed and upheld Mr Gs complaint 
and refunded all of the PPI premiums he paid and that no further compensation was due. It 
also said that a copy of the final response letter from 2013 was enclosed. And I can see this 
included a copy of the settlement form too. Canada Square also sent out a separate letter in relation to Mr Gs loan accounts, which said the one account which had PPI attached had 
also been upheld and compensation paid in 2013. So I think it set out the position clearly.
It seems to me whats happened is that Mr G misread or mis-understood this letter. I say this 
because he signed and returned the enclosed copy of the settlement form Canada Square 
had enclosed for his information only believing he was due further compensation. But this 
was a copy of the form hed previously signed and returned in 2013 (which I have also seen) 
and for which hed received payment - this was not a new settlement form.
Following receipt of this I can see that Canada Square further clarified the position to Mr G in 
its letter of December 2019. It said that it had enclosed the old final response letter for Mr 
Gs reference only and that the acceptance form enclosed had already been returned 
prompting him to receive a cheque for the compensation in 2013.
So Im satisfied Canada Squares communication was clear  I do not consider it was 
misleading in any way.
Id add here that Ive also heard nothing in the phone calls Mr G had with the three Canada 
Square representatives, which indicates he was misled or promised the additional 
compensation as he believed to be the case.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied Canada Square has done nothing wrong here  I think it 
clearly set out the position on Mr Gs PPI complaints and that redress had already been 
paid. And while I accept there were various pieces of communication with different reference 
numbers, which might have been confusing for Mr G, this was the consequence of his 
representatives actions in bringing complaints that already been dealt with six years earlier. 
So to answer Mr Gs question - this is why Canada Square sent him letters six years after 
having paid him his PPI compensation. 
Im satisfied Mr G has received the PPI redress that was owed to him for his credit card and 
loan account  so theres nothing more due to him. Because of this, I dont consider Canada 
Square needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman