DRN-4308427
The complaint
Miss C complains that the loan she had from Lendable Limited was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss C had one loan from Lendable in July 2020 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 26 Jul 2020 £2,000 24m £120.79 26 Jul 2022 N/A
Miss C says when she applied for the loan online, she wasnt required to provide much 
information. She says she had numerous credit facilities already and was only receiving 
benefits. Miss C says she has been affected by stress as she had little income and was 
relying on credit facilities.
Lendable says all affordability, credit and income checks were carried out at the time of the 
application and Miss C fulfilled its criteria. It says there was nothing of concern on her credit 
file and it verified her income before approving the loan. Lendable adds that Miss C made 
contact about a change of circumstances in October 2020, and it agreed to reduce payments 
for three months. Following further contact in February 2021, Lendable says it asked about a 
manageable level of repayment but heard nothing until Miss C complained in December 
2022. It says it accepted Miss Cs repayment proposal and will continue to offer support to 
her.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that Lendable 
carried out reasonable checks and he considered there was no information that suggested 
the lending was unsustainable.
Miss C responded to say, in summary, that Lendable did not consider whether the payments 
were sustainable longer term. She said she was on benefits and most of her income was 
already spent on credit. Miss C adds that shed borrowed £1,000 from another lender just a 
week before this loan as she was struggling to pay her bills. She says that 43% of her 
income was going on debt repayments and she could not afford to live on the remaining 
57%.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss C and to Lendable on 20 July 2023. Ive summarised 
my findings below:
I didnt consider Lendables checks went far enough because:
oThe loan was for two years and Lendable needed to be satisfied that the 
repayments were sustainable for that period;
oMiss C was already committed to around £300 per month in credit 
repayments and with the new repayment it would have meant she would be 
spending around 29% of her income on credit repayments;
o8 of the 11 active credit accounts had been opened in the last year;
I thought this should have indicated to Lendable that it needed to fully understand 
Miss Cs financial situation and I used her bank statements as a reasonable proxy for 
what proportionate checks would have found:
oMiss Cs income, from benefits, was around £1,438 per month;
oShe spent about £577 on rent and bills each month;
oOther regular expenditure on car insurance, tax and communications came to 
about £176;
oWith existing credit costs of around £300, this left Miss C with about £385 with 
which to pay for food, travel and other regular expenditure, plus the new loan 
repayment.
As Miss C said she was a single parent with two children at the time of the lending, I 
was satisfied that further borrowing was unsustainable for her and that Lendable did 
not make a fair lending decision. I noted that Miss C was only able to make the first 
two repayments on time, although I cant see Lendable acted unfairly in its response 
to her financial difficulties.
Based on all the evidence, I did not find Lendable made a fair lending decision, but I couldnt
see it acted unfairly in any other way.
Neither Miss C, nor Lendable, provided any additional information in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lendable Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss C made should be deducted from this amount.oIf this results in Miss C having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Lendable should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss C;
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Cs credit file about the loan 
once it has been repaid.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman