The complaint
Mrs W complains about the redress offered by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
following a review of a Combi Saver Bond.
What happened
Mrs W took out a Combi Saver Green Edition in 2008, which had two elements a fixed term 
deposit (FTD) and an instant access savings account. By taking out the FTD (which was 
only available to private banking clients), Mrs W became eligible for a special instant access 
savings account.  She invested £25,000 into the special instant access savings account and 
£25,000 into the FTD for 3.5 years (the Combi Saver Bond Issue 1), where capital return 
was guaranteed. For balances held in the saver account, which equalled the amount in the 
fixed term deposit an interest rate of 3% AER above base rate was payable in the first year. 
As a result of the interest rate offer on the instant access savings account for the first year 
period, Mrs W received a bonus payment of £750. When the bond matured in 2012, she 
received back his original investment of £25,000. 
Following a review in 2019, NatWest wrote to Mrs W and said the bond hadnt offered value 
for money compared to other products offered at the time. To put things right, NatWest 
offered to pay Mrs W a return as if shed invested in the highest performing savings account 
they offered at the time. NatWest took into account that Mrs W had already received a bonus 
interest payment of £750 from investing in the linked saver account. NatWest say it was fair 
to deduct this from the compensation offered because Mrs W wouldnt have been able to 
take advantage of the bonus interest rate unless she invested in the Combi Saver Bond.
Mrs W questions whether it was fair to use the return from a savings account as a 
comparator and says it was unfair to deduct the bonus interest rate, as but for that incentive 
she would not have invested in the Combi Saver at all. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He noted that NatWest had 
conducted a review following recommendations from the Financial Conduct Authority and 
thought the compensation offered was fair and reasonable as it represented the additional 
return Mrs W would have received if she had invested in the other product.
Mrs W disagrees with the view. She says the Combi Saver was made up of two separate 
elements, the saver account and the FTD, so the interest payment from the saver account 
shouldnt be taken into account when assessing compensation for the bond. Had the bond 
made a profit, NatWest would not have deducted the interest gained from the saver account, 
so it is unfair to do so now. Further, the rate of interest used in NatWests comparator was 
lower than the other rates achievable in the market at the time. 
I wrote a provisional decision, in which I noted Mrs W wasnt advised to take out the Combi 
Saver, so I didnt be assess whether it was suitable for her needs. As NatWest accepted that 
DRN-2458689the bond didnt offer value for money and offered to compensate Mrs W, the crux of the 
complaint was whether NatWests offer to put things right was fair and reasonable.
I didnt think NatWests offer was fair and reasonable. It wasnt disputed that Mrs W chose to 
split her investment between a bond and a savings account. Id seen NatWest originally 
suggested that consumers would be compensated on the basis of the additional return they 
would have received if theyd saved in a fixed-rate bond. In my view, the appropriate 
comparator for calculating a fair and objective performance on the FTD would be the fixed 
rate bond index. Given the nature of the original investment and Mrs Ws submission that 
she was a cautious saver, I thought this comparator fairly reflected the sort of investment 
return Mrs W was seeking.
I took into account that there were two elements to the Combi Saver and if Mrs W had made 
a different investment she wouldnt have been able to access the enhanced rate of interest 
on an instant access savings account. I also considered that if the funds werent in this 
higher rate savings account, they would likely have been achieving a return elsewhere. It 
seemed to me that the fair approach would for NatWest to deduct the average saving rate 
return on £25,000 over that first 12-month period from the overall interest achieved in the 
savings account. That difference should be deducted from the offer of redress.
I wasnt persuaded that it was fair and reasonable to award less than 8% simple interest per 
year and NatWest hadnt explained why it was fair to use a lower percentage than that 
usually recommended by our service. In my view 8% simple interest per annum was fair to 
compensate Mrs W for being without the funds, she would otherwise have had. 
To compensate Mr W fairly, I said NatWest must: 
Compare the performance of Mr Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. 
NatWest should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.  
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Combi 
Saver Bond 
Issue 1surrenderedAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
surrender8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, NatWest should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis. 
Mrs Ws overall financial loss should therefore be calculated as G + H, where: 
 A = the loss, if any, on the Bond as calculated above to the date it matured; 
 B = £25,000 invested in the Special Instant Access Savings Account (SIA), plus the 3% 
above base rate interest from the date account was opened in 2008 for 12 months 
compounded; 
 C = £25,000, plus interest from the same date the account was opened in B at the average 
savings account return rate per annum compounded for 12 months; 
 D = B  C = the gain(+) or loss(-) on the SIA over the 12 month period; 
 E = interest on D at the rate of 8% simple per year from the end of the above 12 month 
period to the date the Bond matured; 
 F = D + E; 
 G = A  F = the overall loss to the date the Bond matured; 
 H = interest on G of 8% simple per year from the date the Bond matured to the date of 
settlement.  
The parties have now received the provisional decision. Nothing further has been added on 
behalf of Mrs W. Natwest repeat that the savings account and FTD should be viewed as one 
product and Mrs W wouldnt have been able to take out the savings account on its own. It 
was conceded that the bond didnt offer value for money but the offer using the best savings 
rate account available at the time as a comparator, was reasonable.
Ive reconsidered everything in order to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments from both parties. Natwest accept that the product they 
offered didnt offer value for money and theyve agreed its fair and reasonable to 
compensate Mrs W. As no new information has come to light, Im not persuaded to change 
my decision from the provisional decision set out above.
It remains my view that the method of redress set out above is fair and reasonable, for the 
reasons Ive already given.Putting things right
I direct Natwest to put things right as set out above. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman