DRN-3479233
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Erudio Student Loans Limited asking him for bank statements to 
support his deferment applications.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
Mr F receives his income in cash as support from a family member. When he applies for 
deferment on his student loan, Erudio keep asking him for bank statements to help verify he 
doesnt receive any other income. Mr F feels this is unfair, as the deferment guide doesnt 
say that statements are necessarily required in situations like his. He also received 
conflicting information about this from Erudio.
Erudio apologised for the confusion, and explained that they had the discretion to ask for 
evidence in addition to the minimum criteria set out in the guide. They clarified that even 
though Mr F didnt receive his family support into his bank account, they ideally wanted 
statements to confirm he didnt get any other income. They said they reviewed things on a 
case by case basis, which is why some years theyd been willing to forego receiving 
statements as a goodwill gesture. They offered Mr F £50 compensation for the confusion 
theyd caused.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought Erudios offer was fair. Mr F 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr F found it frustrating to be asked for statements, not least when the 
guide did not list statements as a requirement for when one received support in cash.
However, Erudio are able to ask for additional evidence to help them assess deferment 
applications. And given that Mr Fs income arrangement is rather uncommon, it seems 
reasonable that they wanted to check he didnt receive any other income. So I dont find that 
they did anything wrong in asking Mr F for statements.
Of course, I do see that Erudio caused some confusion here  they admit that themselves. 
And I can appreciate that that would have caused Mr F some stress. When a business gets 
things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation  to acknowledge their mistake and 
the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to 
fine or punish businesses. Taking into account our guidelines on compensation, I think that 
Erudios apology and offer of £50 is fair to put things right in the circumstances of this case.
I appreciate that Mr F may be unhappy with the way the deferment process works more 
generally. But were here to resolve individual complaints about individual situations  
I cannot change how things work across the board. Its the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA for short) who regulate financial businesses and their processes.
Following our investigators assessment, Mr F raised some materially new complaint points 
around the government selling his student loan to Erudio, and around some wider concerns 
about how his data might be handled. Those are substantially new issues which Erudio have 
not had the chance to reply to, so Mr F would need to raise those as new complaints  Im 
not able to address them in this decision. Though I should explain that its unlikely our 
service could consider a complaint about the government selling on its student loans. And 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO for short) is the body that looks after data 
protection issues, so Mr Fs wider data protection concerns may be better directed there.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman