DRN-2888189
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy first taken out in 1988 
and operated over a number of years with a flexi-loan. Mrs P says HSBC UK Bank PLC, 
mis-sold her the PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to HSBC.
Background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said we should uphold it. They further said HSBC ought to compensate Mrs P for the 
distress and inconvenience she endured in bringing her complaint, as this had taken far too 
long to resolve.
As I write, HSBC has already agreed to compensate Mrs P for mis-selling her PPI. However, 
it agreed to only pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience, rather than £450 as 
recommended by our adjudicator. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in the same way as recommended by 
our adjudicator.
What happened?
An HSBC flexi-loan was a revolving credit facility where the consumer was permitted to 
borrow money up to a pre-set total amount as and when they needed the funds. The 
consumer normally had a set monthly repayment amount regardless of the total balance 
outstanding on the loan. PPI was often sold with these products.
Mrs P said she had been mis-sold this type of cover over a long duration covering several 
years and our adjudicator agreed. HSBC also accepted the PPI was mis-sold and it made a 
number of offers to compensate Mrs P for that mis-sale element.
As Ive said, Im not going to re-state all the facts of this case now, not least because the 
complaint has taken a period of years now. I dont think HSBC has handled Mrs P complaint 
very well and its responses and offers to her have lacked clarity and consistency. I note, for 
example, that HSBC made a number of different financial offers to Mrs P to settle her 
complaint, but the dates and amounts used were repeatedly disputed by her. As a result, 
HSBC increased some of the offers (several times), in an attempt to ensure the redress paid 
to Mrs P was more accurate. Ultimately, we got to the point where the redress offer for the 
mis-sale element of her complaint was acceptable to Mrs P, with the calculations being 
partially estimated because of missing account / payment data going back several years on 
her account. After this point  when the mis-sale redress had been agreed by both parties - 
Mrs Ps complaint related only to the distress and inconvenience element.
Distress and inconvenience
Our adjudicator recommended that Mrs P be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience she incurred in bringing her complaint against HSBC. I have looked at the 
long history of all this, including Mrs P having apparently complained to HSBC as far back as 
2012. I dont intend to list all the relevant issues here, however, Ive read the full file and 
taken a careful note of the delays and poor responses Mrs P has had to endure at the hands 
of HSBC. In my view, HSBC consistently failed to grip the complaint and repeatedly altered 
its stance on both the merits and redress options. I have noted the frustration even from 
HSBCs own staff concerning her complaint taking so long and being passed around to 
different departments; incorrect information was frequently given to Mrs P and her complaint 
was very poorly managed through HSBCs complaints process. 
Our adjudicator comprehensively outlined some of these examples to HSBC in the run up to 
the complaint being handed to me. I note that even at this point, HSBC failed to address 
many of the issues or clarify its position. Not surprisingly, this caused further delays.
Distress caused by failures like this can cause anxiety, disappointment, upset and stress. 
And I think in this case, all these elements are present. Likewise, inconvenience can include 
the time spent, as well as the extra effort or trouble a complainant had to go to as a result of 
a business's mistake. Again, these elements are present here as I can see Mrs P has had to 
continually chase HSBC for answers, corrections and clarification.
In response to the adjudicators formal written view, HSBC has admitted more could and 
should have been done to resolve this complaint more quickly. Our adjudicator 
recommended that £450 be paid by HSBC to Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience she 
had to endure. Even at this point, I think HSBCs response was poor, as it was somewhat 
unclear. Without any real context or explanation, it offered to pay her a much lower amount 
than this  but I dont agree. I think the figure of £450 is a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances and in accordance with our experience similar complaints.
Putting things right
I understand HSBC has already agreed to pay the following amounts regarding the PPI mis-
sale elements. If it hasnt yet done so, I therefore direct that it should:
A. Pay Mrs P back £5.38 for every month on the flexi-loan between August 1988 and 
April 2001; 
B. Pay her back £8.38 for every month between September 2003 until March 2011;
C. HSBC should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs P paid. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year (and 15% before April 1993) calculated from when each 
payment was made to when its refunded; 
D. HSBC should clearly tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
E. HSBC should pay Mrs P £450 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her 
during the course of her complaint.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from the interest. It must give Mrs P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to compensate Mrs P as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman