DRN-3746896
The complaint
Mr R complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan 
used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which 
trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr R is represented by a 
claims management business, which Ill call F.
Where I refer to Mr Rs submissions, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr R has explained that, in March 2006, he and Mrs R were sold a trial membership of a 
timeshare and holiday club, The Diamond Resorts European Collection. Members would buy 
points in the club, which they could exchange for holiday accommodation and other benefits. 
In February 2007 they bought a further 6,200 points with the help of a 10-year loan from 
BPF. The available documents indicate that they bought the membership points from 
Sunterra Tenerife Sales SL (Sunterra), a Spanish company, and that the loan was provided 
to Mr R.
The following year, they bought additional points. That purchase is the subject of a separate 
complaint. This complaint arises from the 2007 purchase. 
In April 2019 F complained to BPF on behalf of Mr R. It said that the 2007 purchase 
agreement had been misrepresented and that Mr R therefore had a claim against BPF in the 
same way as it had a claim against the seller. F said too that BPF had not properly assessed 
whether the loan was affordable.
When F referred the matter to this service, it said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs R had been subjected to pressurised sales techniques before they agreed 
to buy the club membership.
They had been misled about the exclusivity, quality and availability of resorts.
There was no market for their membership, so it could not be sold.
The affordability and suitability of the loan had not been properly assessed.
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. F did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. In doing so, it made further lengthy, but generic, submissions.
It said too that the seller had been in breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 Regulations).
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Mr R. I have not seen anything either to suggest that Mr R 
had any difficulty making payments, and he has not told BPF of any difficulties he may have 
had. It does not necessarily follow of course that proper checks were carried out or that the 
loan was affordable.
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in February 2007. I think Mr R would have known fairly soon after that date if 
he was having difficulty making repayments. 
It is possible therefore that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this 
service by no later than February 2013  six years from the date Mr R took out the loan  
and that, because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Even if I were to take a different view on that (perhaps because Mr R was not aware until 
later of the checks that should have been made), there is no evidence now of what checks 
were made. Given that Mr R was able to make payments, however, it seems likely that BPF 
would have reached the same lending decision, even if it had carried out further checks.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership points. 
The loan indicates that the seller was Sunterra, and I believe that was reflected in the sale 
contract. 
I must therefore consider the possible claims against Sunterra. Mr R says that Sunterra 
misled him and his wife about the holiday club membership. For example, they were told that 
club resorts were exclusive to members, but that was not true. He says too that 
accommodation was of poor quality.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs R at the time of the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs R into the 
contract for the purchase of holiday club membership points were made in or around 
February 2007. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF until April 2019, twelve 
years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against 
the seller was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act.
Breach of contract
Mr R says that accommodation was of a poor standard. He has mentioned in particular a 
holiday in 2012.
I can see that a poor standard of accommodation could give rise to a claim for breach of 
contract. But the Limitation Act does not generally allow a claim for breach of contract to be 
brought more than six years from the date of the breach. In this case, the six-year time limit 
would have expired some time in 2018, and before any claim was made to BPF.
In responding to a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, a lender is entitled to 
rely on any defence that would have been available to a supplier, including Limitation Act 
defences. It seems likely to me that such a defence would be available in this case.  
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against Sunterra is now out of time 
under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
hold BPF liable for Mr Rs claims under section 56 and/or section 75. Given the real 
possibility that a court would say that the claims are time-barred, I do not believe it would be.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering claims under section 140A, a court can take into account any linked 
agreement. That would include the sale agreement here. I do not have any power to make 
an order under section 140B; only a court can do that.
I have not however seen anything in this case which leads me to think that a court would 
make an order. Mr R has said that the sales process was pressured, although he has not 
elaborated on that; nor has he explained why, if he felt pressured into buying additional 
points, he did not make use of the 14-day cooling-off period available to him and withdraw 
from the sale and the loan.
F says that Sunterra did not disclose the level of any commission it would receive from BPF. 
I believe however that the contract would have disclosed that a commission would be paid. 
There was no requirement to disclose the amount, although I have no reason to think it 
would not have been disclosed if Mr R had asked about it.
F says too that Sunterra was in breach of the [2010] Regulations. They did not however 
come into force until four years after the sale contract, so I dont need to comment any 
further on them.
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 140B.I concluded that I was unlikely to uphold the complaint, but invited the parties to make further 
submissions before I issued a final decision. BPF had nothing to add. Mr R did not respond 
within the time I had allowed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments, I do not believe there is 
any reason for me to reach a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman