DRN-3358304
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) did not extend the expiry date on 
cinema vouchers that he received as a benefit of having a Club Lloyds account.
Mr S has also complained that his cinema vouchers did not work after hed closed his Club 
Lloyds account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or incorrectly, so they did not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that Mr S and Lloyds have provided, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
Mr S had taken out a Club Lloyds account in November 2020 and had selected to receive 
cinema vouchers as one of the benefits of the account. Lloyds has explained that the 
vouchers came with a 1-year expiry date. As the first vouchers were issued in December 
2020, this meant that Mr S had until December 2021 in which to use them.
I understand that as cinemas were closed due to the pandemic, Lloyds made the decision to 
extend the expiry date of Club Lloyds cinema vouchers - that were due to expire between 
March 2020 and 18 September 2021 - to 30 September 2021.
Mr S has complained because he wanted Lloyds to extend the expiry date on his vouchers, 
even though they expired later than 18 September 2021. However, as cinemas in general 
had reopened by May 2021, I think that Lloydss decision to not extend the expiry date on Mr 
Ss vouchers was not unreasonable, given that he was able to use them for a number of 
months before they were due to expire.
Mr S has also complained that he was unable to use his cinema vouchers after he closed his 
account. However, the Club Lloyds lifestyle benefits terms and conditions that were in place 
when he took out the Club Lloyds package said:
13. One Lifestyle Benefit per account is available for each 12 months that you have a Club 
Lloyds account and if leaving Club Lloyds, the benefit may be cancelled at the sole 
discretion of Lloyds Bank.
Because of this, Lloyds was able to cancel Mr Ss vouchers after hed closed his Club Lloyds 
account. And in the circumstances, I dont think Lloyds was necessarily being unreasonable 
by choosing to exercise its discretion in cancelling the unused cinema vouchers - given that 
Mr S was no longer paying for the Club Lloyds package. 
Therefore, whilst I understand that Mr S mayve been frustrated that his vouchers no longer 
worked after closing his account, I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or incorrectly in 
this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman