DRN-2819378
The complaint
The Estate of Ms M complain that Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited took no 
action to protect the value of Ms Ms investment after her death; nor did it contact anyone to 
explain her assets remained at risk. Given her money was in a Managed Fund, it should at 
least have warned investors about the falling markets.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld, saying:
L&G were informed of Ms Ms death on 2 December 2019 and it sent investment 
valuations and a bereavement guide on 9 December 2019, explaining that a Grant of 
Probate was needed before it could act upon any instructions
By the time Probate had been granted in May 2020, Ms Ms investment had fallen by 
around 20%
L&Gs letter made clear that the investment would continue to be subject to market 
fluctuations until Grant of Probate was obtained and so its value could fall
The fund was actively managed, but this means there is a manager for the overall 
fund, not that it is managed specifically for any one individual
Any advice wouldve had to come from a qualified adviser who would look at this fund 
as part of Ms Ms full portfolio of investments. L&G didnt have a responsibility to 
advise individuals of fluctuations
L&G simply followed instructions which were set out in its terms and conditions.
Mr P, on behalf the Estate, disagreed and said:
L&G had a duty of care to its customers; it did not carry out such care in this case
He was unaware that Ms M had left a Will and it took time to track this down; hence 
the delay in first approaching L&G
L&G insist on a Grant of Probate for Estates worth more than £25,000; many other 
businesses set this bar much higher, including some who pay out on Estates worth 
£100,000 without sight of the Grant of Probate
Between December 2019 and May 2020 L&G had no instructions, making it all the 
more important that it acted within its duty of care
It was, in effect, acting without instructions after Ms Ms death
Why could her funds not simply be parked in cash?
While the investigator claimed L&G provided regular updates on valuations, he 
received nothing during this near-six-month period
I have a duty as an executor to the estate to maintain its value, and, in the prevailing 
circumstances, I believe I would have been fully entitled to exercise discretion to 
maintain this investment. I was never given that option and as I was not aware of the 
extent of the loss and I cannot honestly conclude that it could be said that L&G have 
acted fairly in this regard
I queried the wisdom of such an investment on behalf of a 94-year-old widow. L&G 
would have been aware of their customers age and I would be very intrigued to learn 
if at any stage steps were taken to invite her to review her portfolio, even if it were to 
direct her to seek advice from a suitably qualified IFA. I submit that this could 
possibly amount to a further failing in their duty of care owed to customers
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. He has explained that 
L&G acted correctly and in line with its terms and conditions. I should also add that in my 
experience it adopted the same procedure as all other financial businesses would have 
done, which was in line with its regulatory requirements.
I fully understand why Mr P and the beneficiaries of Ms Ms Estate will be very disappointed 
at the very significant fall in value after her death but L&G were entitled to insist on a Grant 
of Probate before agreeing to pay out the proceeds to the correct legal beneficiary of Ms Ms 
Estate.
I acknowledge that businesses do not all have the same requirements re the size of the 
Estate; but insisting on a Grant of Probate for Estates over £25,000 is not unusual and not 
unreasonable (given the ever-greater risks of fraud etc.)
Mr P is right to say it had no instructions re the investment after Ms Ms death but what this 
means is that it was not legally entitled to make any changes to her prior instructions i.e. she 
had invested in this risk-based investment and it had no power to change this, such as 
freezing her assets, until instructed to do so by a legally-appointed representative of her 
Estate.
As the investigator explained, Ms M had not sought advice from L&G when taking out this 
investment, it was therefore not in a position to advise her or subsequently any 
representative of her Estate about whether to change the investment in any way.
So I am afraid I dont agree with Mr P that it ought to have contacted him - or someone else 
representing Ms M - to suggest he or they seek financial advice. In any case, any potential 
advice/recommendations to encash or reduce the risk of Ms Ms investment could not have 
been acted upon until after Grant of Probate was acquired. So, unfortunately, even if L&G 
had made Mr P personally aware of the fall in the value of Ms Ms investment during this 
interregnum, there was nothing he could have done till Probate was granted.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Estate of Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman