DRN-3205388
The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of his son that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly reduced his 
claim for damage from an escape of water under his landlords insurance policy. I have just 
referred to Mr G throughout.
What happened
Mr G took out a policy with AXA in June 2020. Following a leak in November 2020 he 
claimed to AXA for the water damage. He said the floors and kitchen of his property had to 
be removed and redecoration was required. 
AXA appointed loss adjusters to progress the claim. It said the loss adjusters assessed what 
it would cost to rebuild the property if the right amount of cover was taken for the policy. AXA 
said for these policies it is informed by the policyholder or representative of an amount that it 
would cost to rebuild the property and it had recorded an amount of £100,000 for this. 
AXA said if at the time of loss the cost to rebuild has increased the policy allows for an uplift 
as long as the Declared Value was sufficient when given. But it said the Declared Value 
wasnt sufficient and it applied the Average to settle the claim. Average is the term used to 
assess the difference between the cost of damage, and what will be paid due to the under-
insurance. AXA said if this was disregarded it would be acting outside of the policy and Mr G 
would receive more than his entitlement. The claim was settled according to the assessed 
under-insurance at 31%. AXA paid Mr G £25 for the time taken to deal with his complaint.
Mr G said he hadnt provided his broker with a rebuild sum as they said AXA would provide 
this from building information. He said AXA had put the sum as £150,000 and reinstatement 
value of £100,000. He said the repairs werent a complete reinstatement only remedial works 
and shouldnt fall under this part of the cover. Mr G said the property has been empty since 5 
November 2021 and is un-rentable due to the claim not being settled. He said theres loss of 
rent at £800 per month and council tax payable as the council charges for vacant properties. 
He wants AXA to pay the £16,450 quote to refurbish the damage, less any excess, and pay 
for loss of rent for the period until refurbished. Mr G brought the complaint to AXA.
In response to Mr Gs complaint AXA said the claim was notified after Mr G had discovered 
damage to the property following the tenant vacating the premises. It confirmed that Mr Gs 
property is under-insured for rebuild purposes and it refused to pay the cost of the cheapest 
quote for the refurbishment. AXA shared the calculations of the under-insurance.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. 
She said AXA provided Mr G with adequate information to work out the correct Declared 
Value of the property and the amounts were provided to AXA rather than set by AXA. She 
said the property was under-insured and AXA calculated the proportionate settlement. But 
she didnt think the average clause should be applied as the Insurance Act precedes the 
contract terms and AXA should consider whether there was a qualifying misrepresentation 
and take the appropriate action under the Act. The investigator said she was satisfied theres 
been a qualifying misrepresentation because the wrong information was given by Mr G. She 
thought that as AXA hadnt applied the remedy in the Act it hadnt treated Mr G fairly.
The investigator thought that AXA had fairly reimbursed £2,000 of rent for the period from 
December 2020 to September 2021. She said AXA should reimburse council tax whilst it 
was vacant as the repairs werent carried out in time for the property to be rented out.
Mr G agreed with the investigator, but AXA thought the application of the average clause to 
the claim was fair. AXA said the purpose of the Insurance Act concerning proportionate 
remedy is for this to be applied where a material fact has not been disclosed. It said it 
applied the average clause as this is a contract term that is specific for sums insured and 
shows policyholders the importance of obtaining adequate cover. 
AXA said it isnt seeking to apply a proportionate remedy on grounds of misrepresentation of 
the sum insured, but to use the average clause as its satisfied the policyholder acted to the 
best of their knowledge and belief. It said our services guidance indicates that insurers can 
rely upon average clauses in these cases and its irrelevant whether they took reasonable 
steps to avoid misrepresenting the rebuild costs of the property as it was under-insured and 
it was their responsibility to ensure this was not the case. AXA said it would reconsider 
reimbursement of the council tax for the period of December 2020 to September 2021.
AXA requested the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has a landlord insurance policy covering a single property for which he is the landlord. 
Although this is a commercial policy, I dont view Mr G as an experienced business 
policyholder, and Ive seen nothing to suggest he was experienced in calculating rebuilding 
costs. I can see from the policy that the building reinstatement value of the property has 
been set at £100,000 and the building sum insured at £150,000. These figures were shown 
on the quotation AXA sent to Mr G before the policy started.
Ive looked at the questions AXA asked of Mr G and the information it provided in order for 
him to advise AXA of the rebuild or Declared Value of his property. I think this information 
was clear and sufficient for the purpose. Mr G was asked what the cost of reinstating his 
building would be. He said he didnt provide the figure of £100,000 recorded by AXA and it 
may have been provided by his broker. But Ive seen nothing to show that AXA completed 
the Declared Value on to the policy as opposed to recording the values with which it was 
provided. AXA provided an explanation of what was required here as the cost of rebuilding 
the property together with all professional fees. This values on the policy were available for 
Mr G to check and correct if he had wished.
AXA has applied the average clause in settling Mr Gs claim, explaining that this is the policy 
term used to calculate the difference between the cost of the damage, and what will actually 
be paid out due to the under-insurance. The policy term states:
if at the time of damage the declared value of the property you are claiming for is less than 
the cost of reinstatement at the start of the period of insurance, our liability for any damage 
will be proportionately reduced and will be limited to the proportion that the declared value 
bears to the cost of reinstatement.
I note what AXA says about the policy, but I think the applicable rules in this case come from 
the Insurance Act 2015. This places a duty on the insured to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out an insurance contract (a policy). This means Mr G had to 
disclose either:
everything he knew, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms;
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
The Act has brought about changes in the way in which misdeclarations of the risk of 
commercial insurance are to be treated, and that includes the value of the risk to be covered. 
The Act states that if the insurer would have entered into the contract but at a higher 
premium it may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim and sets out the 
calculation for this. 
AXA has reflected this approach within its policy terms, stating:
if the failure to make a fair presentation of the risk is not deliberate or reckless and we would 
have issued cover on different terms had you made a fair presentation of the risk then we 
can:
a) reduce proportionately any amount paid or payable in respect of a claim under your policy 
using the following formula. We will divide the premium actually charged by the premium 
which we would have charged had you made a fair presentation and calculate this as a 
percentage. The same percentage figure will be applied to the full amount of the claim to 
arrive at the proportion of the claim to be paid or payable.
I think this term applies where AXA can show that but for Mr Gs failure to present the value 
of the risk correctly it would have offered cover at a different cost. AXA can then apply the 
remedy within the Act in respect of a qualifying breach. I dont think theres any doubt that 
the rebuild costs were misrepresented to AXA and AXA would have charged more premium 
had it been aware of the correct rebuild cost. Im satisfied there has been a qualifying breach 
of the duty on Mr G to make a fair presentation of the risk. 
The remedy available to the insurer under the Act depends on whether the qualifying breach 
was deliberate or reckless, or careless. AXA hasnt suggested that Mr G acted deliberately 
of recklessly. Its clear Mr G should have ensured that accurate information was provided to 
AXA on the rebuild costs, but I think this failure was careless rather than deliberate.  
Ive looked at the remedies available to AXA under the Insurance Act. The Act says that the 
insurer would need to consider what it would have done differently if not for the breach. It 
says that, if the insurer would have entered into the contract on different terms, the contract 
is to be treated as if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer so 
requires. The Act also says, if the insurer would have entered into the contract but charged 
a higher premium, the insurer should pay the claim  but it, may reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid. The Act sets out that this proportion should be based on what premium 
the insurer would have charged if not for the breach. 
And so, in conclusion I agree with the investigator that AXA should deal with Mr Gs claim 
under the Insurance Act. And  as the Act reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases - I think requiring AXA to follow the requirements of the Act in 
assessing the proportion of Mr Gs claim to be paid, produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. I have reached this decision on the particular circumstances of Mr 
Gs complaint and not with a view to extending this approach to all complaints concerning 
commercial insurance policies. AXA has agreed to reimburse Mr G for the rent and council tax he incurred from December 
2020 to September 2021, and I think that is fair. I also think it was fair for AXA to pay Mr G 
£25 for the small delay in its response to his complaint. 
It is open to Mr G to bring a separate complaint against his broker should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given its my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle Mr Gs claim in accordance with the remedy set out 
within the Insurance Act 2015 dealing with breaches of the duty to make a fair presentation 
of the risk. As this is more than any payment in settlement for the claim that it has already 
made or calculated by use of the average clause then it can deduct this sum from the new 
settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman