DRN-1974776
The complaint
Mr and Ms I say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms I took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 1996. 
They recall the sale took place in one of the banks branches. The cover was in Ms Is sole 
name and gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly 
amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Ms I 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms I say at no point did anyone tell them PPI was being attached to their mortgage. 
I cant know what was discussed at the time of the sale but Ive thought carefully about their 
comments and looked at the paperwork from the sale. I think it was clear the PPI was a 
separate, optional product. I say this as the options to select or decline PPI were set out 
with equal prominence on the mortgage application form  and Mr and Ms I indicated that 
they wanted it. They then answered a number of eligbility questions and selected the cover 
just for Ms I. The cost was also set out separately on their mortgage offer. So, I think Lloyds 
made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Ms I chose to take it out for Ms I.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Ms I so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances I think that it was. Ms I told us she 
was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident or sickness claim. It also gave Ms I up to 12 months unemployment 
cover. Mr and Ms I were borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on their 
home. And the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for 
them. So, overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Ms I if Ms I was sick 
or lost her job.
Mr and Ms I say they were told nothing about the policy terms, the cost or the exclusions.
And their representative says as Lloyds failed to give complete and clear information, the 
PPI was mis-sold. I agree its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Ms I all the information they 
needed before taking out PPI. But what I need to decide is if they lost out because of this. I 
dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Ms I doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions.  I dont know at what point the 
cost was first made clear  it was set out in their mortgage offer - but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So overall I dont think better information 
about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it for Ms I.
It follows I dont think Mr and Ms I have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms I to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman