DRN-3881401
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Quantock Analytical Ltd (Quantock) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) and another DB pension, to a personal pension arrangement. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
Mr P was concerned about what this announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his pension. So he sought advice and was introduced to Quantock by another adviser in 
July 2017.
Quantock recorded some information about Mr Ps circumstances. It noted that he was 46, 
married with two children. Mr P was employed earning approximately £43,000. His wife was 
also employed and she earned around £19,000. And they received some rental income from 
a number of properties they owned (it was recorded they jointly owned four properties, but 
Mr P said it was three.) They had a mortgage on their home of approximately £17,000, which 
they were making overpayments to with the aim to reduce the term to around seven years. 
The rental properties were also mortgaged on an interest only basis for around £210,000. 
Mr and Mrs P had around £10,000 in savings / cash-in-bank and their combined income 
exceeded their outgoings by around £1,400 a month.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr P with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £161,040.89. Mr Ps other DB scheme had a CETV of 
£41,450.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Quantock issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report) on 
2 November 2017. This said Mr Ps reasons for wanting to transfer, and Quantocks advice, 
was the sum of a number of  benefits. These included the high transfer value; the comfort of 
moving his pension benefits under his control; the flexibility or timing of taking benefits, 
which could improve the prospects for retiring earlier; to provide for his wife in the event of 
his premature death; and to provide a reservoir of capital and the security this could 
provide. 
Quantock recommended that Mr P transfer both his DB pensions for the reasons above. 
It said the prospect for sustaining a sufficient income in retirement was good with better 
prospects for early retirement and having the choice to place more emphasis on the early 
years of retirement. It said Mr P was burning fewer bridges taking this option as he could 
always use his pension fund to buy a guaranteed income if he wanted to. Quantock 
recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with Mr Ps attitude to risk. 
Mr P complained to Quantock in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In essence 
he didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for him. 
Quantock didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It provided a lengthy response. But, in summary it 
said its advice was suitable. It said the recommendation to transfer was essentially made 
because Mr Ps future income needs were met from other sources and his objectives of 
wanting to retire early and/or buying a property abroad were better served by building a pot 
of capital. It said this would improve the balance of his overall household finances between 
security of income and security of capital. It said Mr Ps objectives and the wisdom of giving 
up a guaranteed pension in exchange for an injection of capital were the same for both his 
DB pensions.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr P referred his complaint to us. He said he believes the 
advice was flawed and as a result hes suffered a significant financial loss.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They upheld the complaint because they 
thought the advice was unsuitable. They said Mr P wasnt likely to improve on the benefits 
he was already guaranteed by transferring. They said they didnt think Mr P was a 
moderate risk investor given the answers hed given in the risk assessment. They said Mr P 
indicated here that his risk appetite was careful and small. They said while Mr P had rental 
income, the guaranteed benefits provided by his DB schemes shouldve been retained to 
ensure a guaranteed base level of income. They didnt think Mr P needed to risk his pension 
benefits. 
They said Mr P had no clear intention of retiring early, but if he wanted to retire at 60 he 
couldve done so without transferring. They said if he later wanted to benefit from a 
drawdown arrangement he couldve transferred at this point. They said Mr P had no need for 
flexibility; lump sum death benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer; and any concerns he 
had about the BSPS wasnt a sufficient reason to transfer either. They said if suitable advice 
had been given, Mr P wouldve retained his DB schemes and moved his BSPS benefits to 
the BSPS2.
While Mr Ps representative agreed with the Investigators conclusion to uphold the 
complaint, it said that as a point of fact, Mr P had three investment properties and not four. 
And it asked the Ombudsman to consider increasing the distress and inconvenience award 
of £250 to better reflect his concerns about not being able to enjoy a happy and comfortable 
retirement.
Quantock disagreed. It again provided a lengthy response, which while Ive read in full, I 
havent set everything out here. In summary it said Mr P was more secure in retirement with the capital from the transfer of his pensions than with the extra income because his income 
needs were already met from other sources. It said Mr Ps objectives were better met by a 
capital fund. It said the Investigator had ignored Mrs Ps pension. It said had they taken this 
into account, they wouldve identified that Mr P had a high capacity for loss. They said the 
Investigators conclusion that he had a low capacity for loss flowed through their analysis 
and as a result they ignored his clear objectives and referred to assumed inappropriate 
objectives, such as death benefits and Mr Ps concerns about the BSPS and his employers 
financial security, regardless of the content of the advice paperwork. 
Because the Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quantock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quantock 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
Quantock carried out two transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports, as required by the 
regulator, for each of Mr Ps DB schemes. For the BSPS, this said that the critical 
yield - how much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 6.15% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. Or to match the maximum 
tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 
4.71%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 
5.08% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve 
offered, it was 4.7%.
For Mr Ps other DB scheme, the critical yield was 9.69% to match the full pension 
hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 60. And to match the maximum 
tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 
8.35%.
Given Mr Ps recorded moderate attitude to risk, the discount rates of 4.4% for 18 
years to retirement (65), and the regulators middle projection rate, I think, at best, 
the opportunity to improve on the pension benefits hed have been entitled to under 
the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 65, by transferring and investing in line with that 
attitude to risk was limited. And given what the TVAS noted about the critical yields 
for retirement at 60 for his other DB scheme  that these were significantly higher at 
9.69% and 8.35% respectively  taking the same things into account (the discount 
rate was slightly lower at 4.1% for 13 to retirement) I think he was always likely to 
receive pension benefits, from age 60, of a lower value that those hed have been 
entitled to under the scheme by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to 
risk. And indeed I note Quantock in a discussion note referred to the critical yields as 
being: A tall order, and thats just to break even.
In my view, for this reason alone, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests to 
transfer his DB pensions to a personal pension arrangement.
Notwithstanding my finding above based on Mr Ps recorded attitude to risk, I have 
some concerns about how Quantock ultimately deemed he was prepared to adopt a 
moderate risk approach with his pension benefits. I say this because of the answers 
he gave to what I consider were key questions asked of him in Quantocks risk 
assessment questionnaire. For example, Mr P described his typical risk attitude as 
fairly cautious, he said he felt hed previously taken a small amount of risk with 
past financial decisions and friends would describe his attitude to taking risks as 
careful. Im mindful too that Mr Ps answers to several other questions showed a 
neutral stance  i.e. neither agreed or disagreed or in between.
I think Mr Ps answers reasonably describe someone who was only prepared to take 
at best a low or cautious risk approach with his pension benefits. So, any modelling 
Quantock produced to demonstrate to Mr P how he could sustainably provide the 
income he needed through drawdown wasnt in my view appropriate here  I dont 
think in the circumstances it was a suitable route for him to take. I dont think he was 
truly prepared to take the level of risk this approach required.
In further support of this, Quantocks Investment Risk and You document described 
Mr Ps primary objective as: ...to achieve a comfortable lifestyle in retirement without 
having to feel concerned about running out of income or capital. I think this 
reasonably describes Mr P as someone who would be better off retaining their DB 
scheme benefits. I think a guaranteed escalating income for life provided by a DB 
pension clearly satisfies this objective.I can see Quantock has argued that Mr Ps capacity for loss was high because his 
income needs were met from other sources, which included his wifes pension - 
something the Investigator ignored. But I disagree with Quantocks assessment here. 
Firstly, reliance on state pensions does not, in my view, in and of itself demonstrate  
Mr P had a high capacity for loss. Secondly, I dont think Mr Ps rental income can 
reasonably be considered guaranteed. He also had a significant outstanding buy-to-
ley interest-only mortgage, which meant he was subject to interest rate risk. 
Furthermore, he had no apparent means or vehicle in place for its ultimate 
repayment. Mr P might have been able to extend the term of the debt  but at some 
point the lender would require full repayment. And without the means to do so, it 
could mean hed have to sell the properties thus ending this income stream.
Mr P had no significant savings at this stage. And while he had a small existing 
personal pension and hed hopefully build the value of his workplace DC pension 
over time, his two DB pensions accounted for the majority of his private retirement 
provision at this time. So, even accounting for his wifes DB pension, Im not 
persuaded he could afford losses. I think hed likely rely on both DB scheme 
pensions as a solid foundation to support his future retirement income needs. 
Overall, it is my view that Mr Ps capacity for loss was not high as Quantock argues 
and that it was in fact low as the Investigator concluded.
It seems the primary rationale for Quantocks recommendation to transfer was to 
enable Mr P to build a capital fund in lieu of extra income. It says Mr Ps objectives 
were better met by a capital fund than with extra income and the transfer would 
therefore provide him with greater security in retirement. But the fundamental 
purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement  thats what it is designed 
to do. Im not persuaded how relinquishing two pension which provided a guaranteed 
and escalating income for life increased Mr Ps security in retirement  in my view it 
did the opposite. 
Mr P already had an existing personal pension valued at around £50,000. And he 
and his employer were contributing a combined 20% of his salary to his workplace 
pension. Over the next 15- or 20-years of work Mr P was good for as recorded in 
the advice paperwork, this had the potential to create a not insignificant capital fund. 
Likely around £124,000 at age 60 not accounting for growth, salary increases or 
increases in contributions. So Mr P was already building a capital fund in any event 
towards his future retirement. But if further building of capital was a priority, then 
given Mr P had significant monthly disposable income after essential household 
expenses and some discretionary spending, then Quantock couldve advised him to 
build his cash-based savings. This could further support his future retirement needs. 
Again, with 15-20 years of work ahead of him, his capacity to save and build capital 
was high. Im not persuaded Mr P needed to transfer his DB pensions at this time, 
some 15-20 years prior to his retirement for the purpose of building capital.
Mr Ps objectives included wanting to retire early, adjust the shape of his income and 
have access to a higher tax-free lump sum. But Mr P had no firm plans to retire early 
 he was prepared to continue working as documented at the time. 
Im certain Mr P liked the idea of retiring early. But he already had this option 
available to him  he didnt have to transfer to achieve things. And no doubt he was 
attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided  the ability to adjust or shape 
his income. But I think this was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a 
personal pension rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ps. I dont think at 46 Mr P 
really knew what his income needs would be. Theres nothing to show he had a 
strong need to vary his income. And nothing indicates he had an apparent need for a 
cash lump sum and defer taking an income.Mr P might also have been attracted to the potential for a higher cash lump sum a 
transfer could provide. But again, no need was clearly identified as to why this was 
important. It was recorded that Mr P liked the idea of buying a property abroad. But 
Mr P had no timescale for this and Im not persuaded it was a concrete plan. In any 
event, Quantock didnt understand what capital amount Mr P might need for this to 
demonstrate how he could better achieve things by transferring or indeed whether it 
was even realistic.
While Mr P had no apparent need for flexibility, he already had this through his 
workplace pension. Because this was a DC scheme it already provided flexibility in 
how and when he could access his benefits. And as I said earlier on, given the 
contribution rate being made to this, this had the potential to be a not insignificant 
pension pot at retirement. I think this couldve given Mr P the flexibility and ability to 
retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided. So I dont think transferring to obtain 
flexibility was in his best interests.
Mr Ps retirement income need was recorded as being £30,000. But with 15-20 years 
to go until his retirement became a reality, Im not persuaded he could reasonably 
know at this time what hed need when he retired. It seems the £30,000 figure was 
based on what he was comfortably living off now. But this included £500 a month 
towards holidays, £320 a month for fuel costs and £400 a month for car leasing. I 
think its likely this would reduce at retirement  I think most consumers would expect 
to retire on less income than when they were working. And Quantock said 
Mr and Mrs Ps lifestyle wasnt extravagant.
Without a clear understanding of Mr Ps true needs in retirement, I dont think it was 
in his best interests to transfer at this time. Mr Ps BSPS pension was estimated to be 
around £10,358,000 a year at 65 and his other DB scheme around £2,447 a year 
from age 60. Both provided a guaranteed and escalating income for life, neither of 
which was likely to be bettered by transferring. I think both wouldve provided a solid 
income foundation upon which Mr Ps other means, including his DC scheme, rental 
income, his existing personal pension and his wifes DB pension could supplement to 
likely meet their income needs and objectives in retirement  at least until their state 
pensions became payable. Indeed Quantock noted in the suitability report that: Your 
British Steel pension scheme would provide about £7,200 pa of inflation protected 
pension from age 65. This is not to be sniffed at and, with other state, private 
pensions and rent on top, would more than cover your essential outgoings in 
retirement.  In the circumstances, I think this was a more appropriate way for Mr P to 
meet his future retirement needs rather than risking his guaranteed benefits in an 
attempt to do so.
Quantock says death benefits were only a potential fringe benefit and werent a 
significant motivator for the transfer. It said the Investigator brushed aside Mr Ps 
clear objectives in favour of inappropriate and assumed objectives, such as death 
benefits, regardless of what was in the advice paperwork. 
But Quantock nevertheless quoted the death benefits available through a personal 
pension as a reason for recommending he transfer. It said: You also preferred to 
secure the death benefits sooner rather than later. And: The availability of the whole 
fund to [Mrs P] should you not enjoy a normal life expectancy, is a significant benefit. 
So whether they were only a fringe benefit, the transfer was still recommended for 
this reason.But the priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement. And 
the existing schemes offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that 
couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death. And while the CETVs 
would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum remaining 
on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. As well as being 
dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income 
Mr P drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have provided the legacy that Mr P may 
have thought it would.
If Mr P had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Quantock couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. Mr P had sufficient disposable income through which he 
couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been considered on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately, whether as Quantock argues it 
was only a fringe benefit, it should not have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the 
potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interest to give up 
his DB pension schemes and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. The transfer 
value might have looked high compared to historical values as Quantock noted and Mr P 
might have approached it motivated to transfer and had a preference to transfer for the sum 
of the range of benefits it would provide. But Quantocks role wasnt just to facilitate what 
Mr P wanted  its role was to provide suitable advice and act in his best interests. And for 
the reasons above Im not persuaded it did. 
Also, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr P wouldve insisted on transferring, 
against advice to remain in the DB schemes. I consider he had little investment knowledge 
or experience and nothing suggests to me that he otherwise had the requisite confidence or 
skill to do so, particularly in this complex area of financial advice. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from Quantock was 
unsuitable for him.
I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr P. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Quantock  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional 
and practical impact this had on Mr P. Taking everything into account, including what hes 
said about the anxiety caused worrying about whether hell be significantly worse off in 
retirement as a result of the advice he received, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him 
some distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
I can see Mr Ps representative has asked for a higher award to better reflect Mr Ps 
concerns about the possibility of not being able to enjoy a happy and comfortable retirement.
But Im satisfied that, taking everything into account, including Mr Ps age and that hes still 
some years from retirement, an award of £250 is fair in the circumstances.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. If things had happened as they 
should have, I consider Mr P would most likely have remained in both the occupational 
pension schemes. And with his BSPS benefits, I think he wouldve opted to join the BSPS2.
Quantock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For Mr Ps BSPS benefits, Quantock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator 
to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and 
the Financial Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with 
supporting evidence of what Quantock based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement ages, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quantock should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Quantocks offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Quantock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quantock Analytical 
Ltd to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Quantock Analytical Ltd should also pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter has caused.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Quantock Analytical Ltd pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quantock Analytical Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman