DRN-1825895
The complaint
Miss D complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Miss D was involved in a road traffic incident and made a claim to her insurer, UKI, for the 
damage to her car. As part of this she also wanted to claim for a replacement car seat.
UKI accepted the claim and asked Miss D if it could share her details with a car hire 
company and a repairer in order to progress the claim. Miss D agreed.
Miss D then changed her mind. She decided instead of using UKIs approved repairer, she 
wanted to use her own. As such she said she didnt need the repairer or the car hire 
company to contact her.
During the claim, Miss D complained to UKI. She wasnt happy with the delays in getting her 
car inspected by UKI and didnt think this was necessary as her garage had already carried 
out an inspection. She was unhappy UKI called her to arrange car hire and repair after it had 
already been arranged by her own repairer and UKI had been told it wasnt needed. She 
was also unhappy she was receiving calls from another company on UKIs behalf. She said 
she only agreed UKI could share her details with the car hire company and UKIs repairer. 
She thought UKI had breached GDPR by sharing her details with another party.
UKI apologised for not letting the car hire company and its repairer know their services 
wouldnt be needed on this claim. It also apologised for some delay throughout the claim but 
said overall the claim was settled in a reasonable time frame. It said the other company 
calling Miss D was the company it used to deal with the car seat part of her claim. It said it 
didnt think this was a breach of GDPR, but it did acknowledge it should have asked Miss Ds 
permission before passing her details on. And it said it should have told her a company 
would be calling her to deal with this part of her claim.
UKI offered Miss D £100 compensation. And it said it would get the company calling her 
about the car seat to stop calling her. UKI gave her the companys details so she could call it 
herself and said she needed to do this to arrange replacement of the car seat.
Miss D was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to us. She said shed already 
replaced the car seat and didnt know why UKI couldnt reimburse her for this. She also 
remained unhappy with the handling of her claim and didnt think the compensation UKI 
offered was enough.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ds complaint and recommended UKI do more. She 
thought the compensation UKI had offered was fair in the circumstances. But she thought 
UKI should reimburse Miss D for the car seat. She also recommended UKI add 8% simple 
interest on to the car seat settlement.
Miss D agreed with this outcome. UKI didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said 
it was entitled to use another party to deal with the car seat part of Miss Ds claim. It said it 
made it clear who this company was and gave Miss D the details to contact it. It said it 
wasnt at fault for Miss D not contacting it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why below.
Ive looked into what happened during the claim and the delays and miscommunication that 
occurred. But my decision and outcome doesnt focus too much on this part of the complaint. 
The reason being that this is no longer in dispute. UKI has admitted it could have done better 
and its offered compensation to try to put that right. Our investigator thought this 
compensation was fair, and Miss D has agreed and accepted this. Therefore, Im satisfied 
the £100 compensation offered by UKI is fair.
What remains in dispute is the issue surrounding Miss Ds car seat.
In this case, UKI didnt tell her shed be contacted by another company, and so Miss D was 
concerned with who was calling her. Shes said UKI has breached GDPR here. But its not 
the role of this service to determine that. What I have to decide is whether UKI treated her 
fairly.
UKI is entitled to use another company to handle any aspect of a claim. But UKI has already 
acknowledged it should have informed Miss D of its intention to do so. In this case it didnt. 
Had it done so, I find it likely Miss D would have agreed to let UKI pass her details on, and 
the claim would have progressed. She agreed to be contacted by the hire car company and 
the repairer, so its likely shed have agreed to be contacted by a company to arrange the 
replacement of her car seat.
UKI has said it told Miss D who the company was and that if she didnt want it calling her, 
she could call it herself. Its explained to us that the process would be for the company to 
arrange vouchers to be sent to Miss D so she could purchase another car seat. But by this 
point, Miss D had already bought a replacement. 
Miss Ds policy with UKI says shes covered for a replacement car seat. Theres no 
explanation this cover will be provided by anyone other than UKI. Nor is there any indication 
shell be provided with vouchers. This cover is provided on an indemnity basis, and as it 
stands, vouchers dont indemnify her. The policy says UKI will arrange a replacement or 
cover Miss D for the cost of replacing her car seat. Shes already purchased a new car seat, 
and importantly, she did so before UKI informed her who the company contacting her about 
the car seat was.
Had UKI told Miss D that another company would be in touch to arrange replacement of her 
car seat, I find it likely Miss D would have spoken to it, understood the process and followed 
it. As it stands, she didnt speak to the company as she didnt know who it was or what it was 
calling about. And she purchased a replacement car seat thinking she was covered by her 
policy with UKI.
Ive been given no other reason why Miss D shouldnt be paid for the replacement car seat. 
And as mentioned, Im satisfied her policy provides cover Miss Ds costs to replace it.Putting things right
To put things right, I require UKI to reimburse Miss D £135 for the cost she paid to replace 
her car seat.
As shes paid this money, UKI should also add 8% simple interest to the payment. This 
interest should be calculated from the day Miss D informed it shed already purchased the 
car seat and sent it her invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss D £135 for the replacement of her car seat
Add 8% simple interest to this payment. Interest should be calculated from the day 
UKI received confirmation Miss D had purchased the car seat to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman