DRN-3955394
The complaint
Mr A complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC when he was tricked into transferring 
money as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr A was contacted by a third party and offered a job at a hospital abroad. He was then 
asked to obtain a work permit that would cost £1,447. Mr A went into his local Lloyds branch 
to make the payment. A few days after he made the payment, Mr A returned to the branch to 
try and cancel it because he had been told by the scammer it hadnt been received. He then 
was asked by the scammer to pay a fee for immigration clearance at which point he became 
suspicious. So, Mr A contacted Lloyds to ask for his money back. 
Lloyds considered the claim but said it couldnt retrieve Mr As money from the beneficiary 
bank. And that it wouldnt refund the international payment because it hadnt done anything 
wrong. It added the payment didnt flag as suspicious because Mr A told the branch staff the 
payment was for travel. But it did offer Mr A £50 for any confusion it caused when 
discussing whether his money could be returned by the beneficiary bank. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that although the 
payment was larger than what Mr A would normally make, because he told the branch the 
payment was for travel, she didnt think Lloyds would consider a one-off payment for travel 
to be suspicious. She added that the £50 Mr A had been offered for the service he had 
received was fair. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the branch didnt ask 
enough questions about why he was making the payment and shouldve realised he wasnt 
comfortable making the payment at the time. He said that if the branch had followed the 
relevant regulations the scam wouldve been stopped. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr A has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
It is common ground that Mr A authorised the scam payment of £1,447. And I accept that 
this was an authorised payment even though Mr A was the victim of a scam. He provided 
valid instructions in branch. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the 
scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his 
account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Lloyds to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Lloyds first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr A provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Lloyds to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect Lloyds to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for Lloyds to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
The starting point here is whether the instruction by Mr A given to Lloyds to transfer £1,447 
was unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account 
statements for the six months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a 
sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. Ive seen that the account typically 
maintained a low balance and Mr A normally made smaller payments than the £1,447 
towards the scam. But thats not the end of the matter. 
Although the payment was sent internationally, I dont think it was sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious for Lloyds to intervene and ask questions of Mr A. Thats because its not 
uncommon for customers to send one-off larger payments on their accounts. And I wouldnt 
expect Lloyds to stop every transaction that was sent internationally for the first time unless it 
was sufficiently unusual or suspicious  which I dont think it was here. There is a balance to 
be struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers free access to 
their money. And in this case, I dont think it is reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have 
intervened.
Ive said above that I dont think the payment was unusual enough to warrant intervention 
from Lloyds. But for completeness, even if I were to conclude that there should have been 
some intervention, I dont think this wouldve made a difference. Mr A told Lloyds that the 
payment was for travel at the instruction of the scammers. And that at the time he was 
making the payment in branch, members of his family called him to tell him not to make it, 
but he still decided to proceed. So, even if Lloyds had asked Mr A more questions as he has 
alluded to, I think its more likely he wouldve instructed the payment to go through.
I understand the distress that this situation has caused  but ultimately, its the scammer that 
has caused this issue. And, as Ive explained above, I dont think Lloyds treated Mr A unfairly 
when allowing the payment to be sent. Lloyds has said it couldve communicated more 
clearly with Mr A when the scam was raised. And Im satisfied it did what it could to retrieve 
Mr As money, but the beneficiary bank has said it was still investigating the issue. Lloyds 
has said that if the beneficiary bank does respond to say the money can be returned then it 
will let Mr A know. 
Lloyds has offered £50 for the issues Mr A had when raising the scam. Ive listened to the 
call recordings Lloyds has provided and I note it couldve communicated more clearly with 
Mr A. So, I think Lloyds offer to pay £50 is fair here. 
As a result, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more here. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman