DRN-3307071
The complaint
Ms W complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined her claim and avoided her policy.
What happened
Ms W took out an annual travel insurance policy with AXA in 2018 and renewed it in 2019. In 
November 2019, Ms W travelled abroad, and unfortunately became unwell and was treated 
in hospital. 
Ms W made a claim for her medical expenses, which were around £30,000. However AXA 
declined the claim. 
Ms W complained to AXA. In response it said Ms W had not declared medical investigations 
in November 2018, when renewing her policy in January 2019. And it said Ms W had set her 
policy to renew automatically, and that it had sent her an email advising that her medical 
history needed to be declared. 
AXA said if Ms W had declared her medical conditions, it would have been unable to sell her 
the same policy. So it had been correct to avoid it and decline the claim. And it said the 
policy premium would be refunded.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Ms W brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened, and said they didnt think AXA had acted unfairly. They 
thought Ms W had made a qualifying misrepresentation, and as such, AXA was entitled to 
decline the claim. 
AXA made no further comments. However Ms W disagreed. She made a detailed 
submission. In summary she said she thought AXA may have applied the incorrect terms 
and conditions when assessing her claim, and the online screens and email AXA provided 
were also incorrect and not the ones in use or sent at the time. She said the condition she 
was treated for abroad wasnt connected to any pre-existing condition, and AXA had 
previously accepted this.  And, she said she wasnt under investigation for any heart 
condition in when she took out her policy or when she renewed it. 
Following Ms Ws response, the investigator asked AXA for further details about the renewal 
email. AXA later provided a copy of an email which stated Ms W had opted out of the auto 
renewal process and her policy would expire in February 2019. 
As Ms W disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties, saying I intended to uphold the complaint. In 
summary I said: 
Misrepresentation
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
I said AXA has the right to ask relevant questions before agreeing to provide a policy, 
so it can assess the risk posed. So I looked at what happened when Ms W renewed 
her policy in 2019. 
AXA said Ms W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she renewed her policy. It said her policy was set to renew automatically, and that 
she was sent an email advising her to make a medical declaration, and a website link 
for her to do so. However, AXA later said Ms Ws original policy was not set to auto-
renew. It provided a copy of an email it sent to Ms W, which stated she had opted out 
of the auto renewal process and her policy would expire in February 2019. And this 
email didnt make any reference to medical declarations. 
I thought about this, but I didnt think it automatically meant Ms W didnt need to 
provide any medical information. And I still needed to consider the renewal process 
Ms W went through, and any questions she was asked about her medical history. 
AXA provided a copy of a screen it said Ms W would have seen, had she followed 
the link it provided in an email about auto-renewal. This screen gave a warning of the 
importance of declaring pre-existing medical conditions within the prior five years, 
and provided a process to complete a medical screening. However, I wasnt 
persuaded Ms W was presented with this screen, as at the top it stated the policy 
was set to renew in February 2019. And AXA had since confirmed Ms Ws policy was 
never set to auto-renew. So, I wasnt satisfied that the screen AXA has provided was 
an accurate representation of one Ms W saw when she renewed her policy. 
AXA hadnt provided any other evidence of any questions it asked Ms W when she 
renewed her policy in 2019, or of the answers she gave. And because of this, I didnt 
think it had sufficiently evidenced that Miss W made a misrepresentation. And so it follows, I wasnt persuaded it was fair for AXA to avoid Miss Ws policy and turn down 
her claim. 
I said Id also considered what happened when Ms W took out her first policy in early 
2018, although this was prior to the medical investigations she underwent in 
November 2018. However, no evidence of the answers Ms W gave to any questions 
asked at that time had been provided by AXA. 
Exclusion for pre-existing conditions 
AXA referenced the terms and conditions, in relation to there being no cover for a list 
of pre-existing medical conditions requiring medical advice or treatment, within the 
prior five years to taking the policy out. And Ms W raised concerns over later 
changes in AXAs policy wording, and whether these later versions of policy wording 
had been applied to her claim by AXA. However I found the same exclusion to be 
present in the 2018 policy terms and conditions, which applied to Ms Ws claim. 
I said although Ms Ws medical records showed she had been undergoing tests for a 
potential heart condition, I wasnt satisfied the exclusion applied. The exclusion 
stated there was no cover for claims arising directly or indirectly from the conditions 
listed, which included heart related conditions, in the past five years. And AXA had 
said it accepted the cause of Ms Ws hospitalisation abroad was not linked to any 
pre-existing medical condition. 
As I wasnt satisfied AXA has adequately evidenced Ms W made a 
misrepresentation, I said I intended to direct it to remove all reference to the 
avoidance of the policy from its records. And to re-assess her medical expenses 
claim, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ms W said she had been caused distress and inconvenience by AXAs actions. In 
particular because she has been chased by the overseas provider in relation to the 
medical bills, which she said she couldnt afford to pay. I accepted this must have 
been very upsetting for her, and had gone on for some considerable time. So I 
thought AXA should also pay Ms W £500 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The response to my provisional decision 
Ms W responded to my provisional decision and made a number of points. In summary she 
said: 
she was not under investigation for a heart condition at the time her policy was 
purchased;
she would like AXA to pay interest on the claim, should it be paid following the re-
assessment; providing the re-assessment leads to the claim being paid, she would like a letter 
from AXA confirming that she has no financial responsibility for the medical bills, so  
she can use this as evidence if needed on her future travels; and
she would like to deal with AXA directly in regard to the re-assessment, and not its 
agents. 
I shared the further points Ms W raised, and my thinking on them, with AXA. It confirmed it 
had received this, but had nothing to add. 
Ms W also provided further details about the expenses she had incurred as part of her claim, 
in relation to the re-assessment, and this has been passed on to AXA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the response.
Ms W has stated that she was not under investigation for a heart condition when her policy 
was purchased. So Ive looked at this evidence again. 
Ms W took out her original policy in February 2018 and it was renewed on 21 January 2019, 
to start in February 2019. Her medical records show she was referred to a cardiologist for 
some investigation following an episode of fainting and high heart rate in November 2018. 
She had attended hospital and underwent tests including an echocardiogram and was later 
referred for further tests. The consultant stated in a letter in December 2018, that he thought 
the symptoms were not related to any abnormal heartbeat.
I reviewed a further letter from the consultant dated 27 February 2019 relating to a 
consultation with Ms W on 8 January 2019. Within this letter the consultant confirmed a 
diagnosis of vasovagal syncope  a reaction of fainting in the presence of particular triggers.  
The consultant had listed measures Ms W could take to alleviate her symptoms including 
increasing water and salt intake, and there was no suggestion that any further investigation 
was to take place in regard to this or any heart condition. 
Although the consultants letter was dated 27 February 2019, the consultation took place on 
8 January 2019. So Im persuaded Ms W was no longer under investigation for a potential 
heart condition when her policy was renewed on 21 January 2019. 
Id noted AXA had accepted the cause for Ms W being hospitalised aboard was not linked to 
any pre-existing condition she had, so my opinion remains the same that I dont think the 
exclusion around pre-existing conditions could be fairly applied here. And for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision, its still my view that AXA should re-assess the claim, subject 
to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Should the claim be paid following AXAs re-assessment, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Ms W to receive interest on the settlement (from the date the claim was 
originally declined, to the date of settlement), due to my finding that the claim was originally 
unfairly declined.Ms W asked that AXA correspond with her directly during the re-assessment for the claim, 
and that if the claim is paid, provide a letter confirming shes not responsible for the debt 
relating to the medical bills. Its not my role to dictate AXAs policies and procedures, but I 
think its reasonable to expect that the re-assessment of the claim be undertaken without 
unnecessary delay and that Ms W is kept updated regularly. And I think her request for a 
letter confirming the position, should the claim be paid, is not unreasonable. This is 
something Ms W and AXA should discuss directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct AXA Insurance PLC to remove the avoidance of the 
policy, re-assess the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and 
pay Ms W £500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. And should the re-
assessment result in the claim being paid, AXA Insurance PLC must also pay Ms W interest 
at 8% simple from the date the claim was originally declined, to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman