DRN-3015382
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the sale and administration of a Premium Savings Account policy 
she has with Phoenix Life Limited.
What happened
Mrs G took out the policy in 1997 with a predecessor business of Phoenix and it was set up 
to mature in 2009. 
In late 2019 Mrs G contacted Phoenix as she hadnt heard anything about the policy in many 
years. Phoenix verbally gave Mrs G a maturity value of over £6,000 but when she received 
confirmation in writing the value was £2,608.24. 
Mrs G complained to Phoenix saying that the value was less than she expected. Mrs G was 
also unhappy as she didnt know the nature of the investment and it had been many years 
since shed heard from Phoenix about the policy. 
Phoenix looked into what happened and upheld Mrs Gs complaint saying there were 
concerns that the fund choice might not have been appropriate. They offered a payment of 
£1,374.97 which was a refund of premiums paid over the term of the policy, plus interest, 
and minus the maturity value of £2,608.24, which is also available for Mrs G to collect. 
Phoenix also offered £100 for the trouble caused by giving Mrs G incorrect information about 
the valuation when she first contacted them.
Mrs G didnt accept the offer and brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. Overall they thought the offer was fair whilst they 
also understood that being told the wrong value must have been frustrating. Mrs G remained 
unhappy asking where the money had been for such a long time and asking why Phoenix 
hadnt contacted her. Our investigator considered these concerns and still thought the offer 
was a fair way of resolving the complaint. Mrs G disagreed so the complaint has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs G that Ive read and considered 
everything shes submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what 
happened which reflects the informal nature of your service. 
It seems this problem started when the policy matured in 2009 and Mrs G says Phoenix 
didnt let her know. Phoenix have said they wrote to Mrs G in November 2010 after she 
changed her address with them. Phoenix have provided a copy of the letter they say was 
sent which included the maturity value and claim form. Due to the time passed I havent 
seen any system proof the letter was sent but I see no reason why it wouldnt have been 
sent. So I think, on balance, Phoenix wrote to Mrs G however I cant say why the letter 
wasnt received.   
Mrs G has concerns about where the money was between when the policy matured and 
when she contacted them some ten years later. Looking at the policy Im satisfied the money 
was held by Phoenix awaiting collection. The policy was always held on their systems and 
the maturity value is available to collect. 
When Mrs G contacted Phoenix about the policy they told her an incorrect maturity amount. 
Phoenix have apologised for this and offered £100 for the trouble that incorrect information 
caused. Looking at what happened Im satisfied this is fair compensation. Mrs G was 
understandably shocked when she received the lower valuation as it didnt match what she 
had been told. Looking at the original documentation it shows that the maturity value was 
expected to be around £2,860 so whilst Mrs G certainly has suffered a loss of expectation, I 
cant see anything to show that the actual maturity amount is wrong. I think this was a 
genuine mistake on the part of Phoenix for which they have apologised.
Phoenix have looked into the sale of the policy and said it wasnt suitable as they have 
concerns about the level of risk. To put things right theyve offered to refund the amount of 
premiums paid, plus interest minus the maturity value  this is an amount of £1,374.97. 
Having looked at this I think its a fair way of resolving the complaint.  
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied the offer made by Phoenix is fair. 
Putting things right
To put things right Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mrs G a total of £1,474.97
This is made up of:
- £1,374.97 redress for the mis-sale of the policy
- £100 in recognition of the incorrect information given to Mrs G
This is separate to the maturity value of the policy which is £2,608.24 that Mrs G is able to 
collect whether or not she agrees to the payment above. 
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already made an offer of £1,474.97 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair under all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mrs G £1,474.97
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman