DRN-2382712
The complaint
Ms B complains about the transfer of her ISA holdings from a third-party platform provider 
(the transferor) to Cynergy Bank Limited (referred to as Cynergy or the transferee).    
Shes unhappy that despite her instructions, the correct amount hasnt been transferred. 
What happened
On 29 January 2020, Ms B contacted Cynergy via secure message to query the amount that 
had been transferred. She said she wanted to transfer £65,000 from the previous years ISA 
 not £45,000  along with an additional £20,000 from the current years ISA, as per her 
instructions on 23 January 2020. She felt that Cynergy had transferred £20,000 less than 
what shed asked it to transfer.  
To put things right, Ms B would like the (£20,000) difference to be credited to her new ISA 
account, along with any loss of interest. 
Cynergy didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said: 
It acted in accordance with Ms Bs instructions to transfer £65,000 which comprised 
£45,000 from the previous years allowance and £20,000 from the current years 
allowance. 
The ISA transfer completed on 29 January 2020.
It understands that Ms B wanted to transfer a further £20,000, from her previous 
years allowance. Whilst its unable to add this to the current investment, its able to 
complete a second application. 
Its sorry for the delay in responding to Ms Bs complaint. Its been experiencing high 
volumes of customer interactions. It offered £30 (increased from £20) compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Unhappy with Cynergys response Ms B referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
Ms B submitted an application to transfer her holdings to Cynergy online. It was her 
intention to transfer £85,000, but she submitted an application to only transfer a total 
of £65,000.
Cynergy completed the request  on 29 January 2020  as per Ms Bs instructions as 
evidenced by a screenshot of her application form. 
Ms B contacted the business on 29, 30 and 31 January 2019 to query the issue. The 
business responded on 6 February 2019, to say that it had carried out her 
instructions and that she could add another £20,000 as a separate transaction which 
is fair and reasonable. 
The £20 compensation offered for delay in answering her secure messages is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she made the following key points:
The screenshot isnt what she filled in but a manually amended scanned form 
produced by Cynergy. 
Theres a name mentioned  which is unknown to her  and is nothing to do with her 
account. 
The form asked her if she wanted to invest this years (now last years) allowance, to 
which she answered yes. An amount wasnt sought but the full yearly amount is 
£20,000, which is what she had to transfer.  
The form then asked her if she wanted to transfer all or part of the previous years 
allowance, to which she answered part. The form then asked her how much of the 
previous years allowance she wanted to transfer, and she said £65,000. 
The form provided by Cynergy shows £45,000 from the previous year but at no point 
did she enter this amount.
Nowhere on the application form did it ask how much she wanted to transfer, but if 
she was asked, she wouldve said £85,000. 
If the form has been processed with the incorrect information, this needs to be 
investigated thoroughly, as the form/process is flawed. 
She doesnt tell lies and believes that this is a classic case of fraud by Cynergy. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Cynergy confirmed that the document provided was a screenshot of what was 
generated by its system, after she completed the online application. 
After Ms B confirmed that she wanted to transfer part of last years allowance, she 
entered £45,000. Despite what Ms B says, Cynergy isnt able to amend this figure. 
The name mentioned on the document was an employee of Cynergy, and not 
another customer, so theres unlikely to have been a data protection breach. 
Ms B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
made the following key submissions:
She doesnt think her complaint has been looked at in any depth. 
If the investigator knew anything about financial services, he wouldve known from 
the outset that the document provided wasnt a screenshot, let alone of her 
application. It was simply a form used by the business for internal purposes. 
She asks how does the investigator even know the name mentioned on the 
document actually works for Cynergy?
The suggestion that she felt she put in a particular figure is insulting. She knows 
what figure she put in. 
She hopes the ombudsman will note her points, as its a waste of her time having to 
keep repeating it. 
She chased the business on the following dates: 12 May, 5, 18 and 27 June. 
Its a case of fraud by Cynergy. The definition of fraud is as follows and its behaviour 
falls within it:
o"Making false statements to obtain goods and services you would not 
normally be entitled to if you told the truth; wrongful or criminal deception 
intended to result in financial gain; a person intending, or thing intended, to 
deceive"
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms B says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Ms Bs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Ms B and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. Its not for me to determine if a fraud has 
been committed. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business acted in 
accordance with Ms Bs instructions to transfer a total of £65,000 comprising £20,000 for the 
whole of that years allowance, and £45,000 comprising a part of the previous years 
allowance. 
Despite what Ms B say, Ive seen nothing to say that she made clear that she wanted to 
transfer a total of £85,000, rather than £65,000. In other words, I dont doubt that Ms B 
wanted to transfer £85,000, but despite her intentions, it wasnt made clear to Cynergy that 
this is what she wanted.  
Evidently, theres no issue with regards to the current years allowance instructions, as she 
was required to transfer the entire amount, so it was a given she would transfer the whole of 
the £20,000. The issue lies with her instructions regarding last years allowance. 
. 
So, looking at it step by step, I understand that Ms B confirmed that she wanted to transfer 
only part, rather than the whole of, last years allowance. I note that theres no dispute about 
this. 
However, Cynergy says thereafter Ms B confirmed that she wanted to transfer £45,000  as 
evidenced by its screenshot of the document produced subsequent to her application  
whereas Ms B maintains that she entered £65,000 on the online form and that Cynergy 
mustve doctored the figure, resulting in fraud. 
Unfortunately, I dont have a copy of the application form filled out by Ms B, however based 
on the available evidence  including the screenshot  despite what she B says, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that she entered £85,000, or that Cynergy altered the amount she asked 
to transfer. Its possible that Ms B entered the correct figure and somehow  through a computer error of 
some sort perhaps  it was changed to a different figure, but I simply dont have the 
evidence to conclude that this was the case. 
Or that Ms B entered £65,000 as the figure she wanted to transfer, with £20,000 for the 
current year, thinking it was the sum total of the two figures.  But this cant be right either, as 
Cynergy has made clear that Ms B wouldve had to enter the amount for the previous years 
allowance.   
So, on a balance of probabilities, despite what Ms B says, I think its more likely (than not) 
that she entered £45,000 in error. I understand that Cynergy simply wont change the figure 
once the application is made and the information is filtered through to Salesforce  even if a 
customer had entered the wrong amount and wanted it rectified. I note it says that its system 
is tested regularly and hasnt had a similar complaint of this nature.  
I understand that Cynergy offered to transfer an additional £20,000 as a separate transaction  
but Ms B declined to do this. In the circumstances I dont think Cynergy is required to do 
anymore. 
I note Ms B says that she wasnt asked if she wanted to transfer £85,000, but if asked she 
wouldve made clear that she did. In the circumstances I dont think I can blame the business 
for this because its up to Ms B to make clear on the form the overall figure she wanted to 
transfer, and she accepts that she didnt input the figure of £85,000. 
I appreciate what Ms B says and how her instructions shouldve been interpreted, but Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Cynergy was wrong to interpret her instructions in the way that 
it did. 
Im mindful that Cynergy initially offered to pay Ms B £30 compensation (increased from its 
initial offer of £20) for trouble and upset caused by the delays. It may have increased this 
figure to £50 but its not clear on the face of the papers. 
Even if it hasnt, in the circumstances I think it should offer to pay her £50  less any 
payment already made  which I think is fair and reasonable and accurately reflects the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced. I dont think this requires me to draft a 
provisional decision and Ive notified the business of my decision and it agrees. 
I appreciate Ms B will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman