DRN-3438531
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited required him to complete a 
new form to continue receiving his income withdrawals when his Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) account was transferred to it, but that it didnt inform him of this requirement.
What happened
Mr S was withdrawing an income of £1,500 pm from a SIPP with The Share Centre, and in 
June 2021 the SIPP migrated to Interactive Investor. But Mr S didnt receive his next 
expected monthly income payment and contacted Interactive Investor at the end of June 
2021 to query this.
Interactive Investor replied, asking Mr S to confirm the monetary amount of his usual 
withdrawal, to which Mr S confirmed the amount. Interactive Investor contacted Mr S further 
in early July 2021, saying that it hadnt received any drawdown request from Mr S and that 
he would need to complete the necessary form to set up the income withdrawals.
Mr S said in response that hed received a statement from Interactive Investor which showed 
that he was receiving the regular income withdrawals and so he didnt understand why it 
would need a new withdrawal instruction form to be completed.
Interactive Investor dealt with Mr Ss dissatisfaction as a complaint, and wrote to him in July 
2021 setting out its findings. It said that it hadnt received the necessary forms to begin 
income withdrawals and that it wasnt able to simply continue with the withdrawal 
arrangements Mr S previously had with The Share Centre.
It further said that the statement referred to historic payments and that Mr S would need to 
complete a new form and provide his P45 to establish the monthly withdrawals. 
Mr S then confirmed that hed like to cancel his SIPP account and that hed be referring his 
complaint to this service.
Mr S did so, adding that hed assumed that the migration would involve a seamless transition 
of his withdrawal arrangements from one SIPP provider to the next. He said that, prior to the 
migration of his account, hed been provided with a leaflet, entitled Better together, which 
set out the following:
We are combining The Share Centre with interactive investor for an even better 
investment service for you. One that is as simple and cost effective as possible with 
access to the very best research and customer service. When you agree to move you can 
enjoy all these benefits.
Agreeing also means you will not have to take any further action. We will make all the 
arrangements for you and as your investments will move over a weekend you will not be 
out of the market at any stage.
Mr S further said that, in correspondence throughout February and March 2021, before 
the transfer, Interactive Investor had failed to respond to complaints raised about what he 
considered to be unnecessary form filling relating to suitability and his investment 
strategy. Interactive Investor was treating him as if he was a new investor, rather than 
someone who already held a SIPP and was drawing an income from it, he added.
Mr S said that he understood the Better Together leaflet wording to mean that he wouldnt 
need to complete any additional paperwork to migrate his SIPP. This notion was 
reinforced by Interactive Investor confirming in response to his own query on the matter, 
that he wouldnt need to complete a new death benefit nomination form as this would roll 
over from the previous provider.
Interactive Investor knew he was taking an income from his existing SIPP, but hadnt 
asked him to complete any additional forms to ensure that this income would continue 
after the transfer, Mr S said. And if a P45 was in fact required to continue the income 
payments, then steps should have been taken by Interactive Investor to obtain this from 
The Share Centre.
Interactive Investor also wished to make further points, saying that it had contacted Mr S in 
advance of the migration and referred him to its terms of service, its charging structure and 
its website. It said it had a full section on the website relating to the process of requesting a 
drawdown payment and that Mr S had a responsibility to understand how a SIPP worked 
and what procedures were in place for issues such as withdrawing from a SIPP. Mr S also 
had a responsibility to ensure he was up to date with Interactive Investors terms of service, 
it said.
It could see no reason as to why Mr S would have believed that he could continue to request 
income withdrawals from his SIPP by any other method than following Interactive Investors 
drawdown process, it concluded.
One of our investigators considered the matter, and thought that the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, he said that the Better Together document had informed Mr S that he 
didnt need to take any action for the migration as The Share Centre/Interactive Investor 
would make all the necessary arrangements. So he thought it was understandable that Mr S 
hadnt been aware that hed need to complete new forms to continue the income payments.
He also noted Interactive Investors comment that Mr S was told to review the terms and this 
should have made him aware of what he needed to do to continue the income withdrawals, 
but he didnt think this was very clear  especially in the context of Mr S having previously 
received the income and having been informed that all arrangements would be taken care of 
on his behalf.
The investigator thought that it would have been good practice for Interactive Investor to 
have made it clear, ahead of the migration, that Mr S needed to complete further forms to 
continue receiving his income.
He noted that Mr S had decided not to complete the forms when advised he needed to, and 
had then transferred his SIPP to another provider, and so he didnt think that Interactive 
Investor had caused Mr S a financial loss. But he nevertheless considered that Interactive 
Investor should pay Mr S £75 in respect of the trouble and upset that it caused in not making 
him aware that hed need to complete new forms.
Interactive Investor agreed with the investigators proposal, as did Mr S, but with the 
condition that he be offered an apology as well.Interactive Investor declined to offer an apology, saying that it didnt feel it had done anything 
wrong, and that it had agreed to the recommended payment to resolve the matter, and so 
the complaints been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
Interactive Investor has said that Mr S had a responsibility to understand how a SIPP works 
and that it was an execution only broker which didnt give advice. It also said that it was up to 
Mr S to ensure he was up to date with its terms of service. But I think this is quite a jarring 
comment, given that Mr S seems to have understood very well how his SIPP with The Share 
Centre worked and would also have been reasonably confident as to the process for him 
withdrawing an income  to the extent that, as far as he was concerned, hed already done 
what he needed to do to access his pension funds and was enjoying a problem-free monthly 
income of £1,500.
Furthermore, Mr S hadnt needed any investment advice, as demonstrated by his frustration 
with forms relating to this earlier in the migration, and so Interactive Investors status as an 
execution only broker would have been of little consequence to the matter at hand  the 
continuation of his income payments.
The issue here, as identified by the investigator, was that Mr S was effectively given the 
impression, not least by the Better Together document, that the transition between SIPPs 
would be seamless and that all arrangements would be taken care of by The Share 
Centre/Interactive Investor. And I agree with Mr Ss comment that being informed that the 
death benefit nomination would simply roll over from his previous SIPP would reasonably 
have reinforced his understanding of this.
Therefore, for this reason, I think Interactive Investors comment that it could see no reason 
as to why Mr S would have believed he could continue drawing an income without following 
its drawdown procedure is problematic. 
Had it been pointed out to Mr S, or even to the general population of investors in generic 
terms within the Better Together document, that those who were taking an income form their 
SIPPs would need to complete new forms to continue that income stream, then I might take 
a different view.
But saying that Mr S should have read the terms and conditions on the website, when hed 
received the Better Together leaflet which in essence informed him that he didnt need to 
take any action, isnt in my view treating him fairly. 
I agree that it doesnt seem to be the case that Mr S will have suffered a financial loss, and 
its fair to say that Interactive Investor did try to resolve the matter for him when the issue 
was brought to light, but its clear that Mr S became frustrated and annoyed by his 
experience of the migration to the extent that he decided to transfer to a new provider. I dont 
think this was an unjustifiable course of action given the circumstances  confidence in a 
financial services provider is understandably important when a regular income stream is 
required - and this will have also caused a not insignificant amount of inconvenience.
So I think the £75 payment is justified, but I do also think an apology from Interactive Investor for what happened would also be appropriate. 
Putting things right
Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay £75 to Mr S, and offer an apology to Mr S in 
respect of the problems he encountered with the income payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Interactive Investor Services 
Limited to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman