DRN-2354145
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited told him that his travel insurance policy 
doesnt cover a trip hes planned. Reference to Aviva includes reference to its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M planned a specialist photography tour for 2020, which has now been 
rearranged for 2021. 
Mr Ms policy contains the following:
Leisure activities and activity based holidays
You are automatically covered for claims arising from your participation in a number 
of leisure activities on an incidental and recreational basis; or if you have booked an 
acceptable activity based holiday  see the Leisure activities, Activity based holidays 
and Winter sports activities section for full details.
Your Activities
What is not covered
[]
2. There is no cover under the Cancellation or Abandoning your holiday sections for:
a. any course or tuition fees, project costs, sponsorship fees or similar (other than 
your pre-paid ski pack)
b. cancellation of a pre-paid leisure activity or any activity based holiday by the 
organiser of that activity.
Leisure Activities
There is no cover where the main purpose of your trip is to take part in a 
leisure activity (unless shown as an Activity Based Holiday below).
You will be covered whilst taking part in the following leisure activities, subject to any 
limitation shown. [].
A long list of leisure activities follows and limitations to the cover are shown, where 
applicable. Photography isnt in the list of leisure activities. Neither is a photography 
tour included in the list of activity-based holidays. 
 
I dont think that Aviva treated Mr M unfairly in relying on the terms of the policy when 
it told him that his photography tour isnt covered under the policy. 
Mr M says that some of the activities he will engage in during his photography tour  - 
safari, hiking, hill walking, trekking  are covered by the policy. I dont think that alters 
the fact that Mr Ms trip is a photography tour and thats not an activity Aviva chose to 
include in the cover. 
Mr M says that theres nothing in the photography tour thats outside the levels of risk 
Aviva accepts for other activities. I dont think that means that it would be fair and 
reasonable to direct Aviva to extend the cover of Mr Ms policy to cover his trip. 
Thats because, in general, insurers can decide the risks they wish to accept and the 
terms on which they will accept those risks. Here, Aviva has not accepted the risks of 
a photography tour. In the circumstances of this case, theres no basis on which to 
direct Aviva to include a particular risk it decided not to include.  
Mr M hasnt suffered a loss, as he decided to defer his trip until later this year. I 
appreciate that Mr M wants the assurance that his trip is covered by the policy, in 
case the trip doesnt go ahead in 2021. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Mr Ms 
trip isnt covered by the policy.  
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman