DRN-3433521
The complaint
H Ltd, represented by directors Mr N and Mr W, complained about delays and poor service 
from Bank of Scotland plc in relation to reinstating a dormant account.
What happened
H Ltd and another company, which Ill call C Ltd, had bank accounts with Bank of Scotland. 
The directors for the two companies were slightly different, but Mr N was a director for both. 
The account for H Ltd wasnt used from 2009, so Bank of Scotland added a dormancy 
marker to the account in 2016.
There were many calls and letters over the period of this complaint, and the following is a 
summary of the key events.
On 21 August 2019, Mr N, who was a director both of H Ltd and C Ltd, wrote to Bank of 
Scotland. He explained that C Ltds bank account would gradually become less active, 
because H Ltd was taking over its role. Mr N said that H Ltds account had been dormant for 
some time, and he wanted to reactivate it, and would be transferring the balance of C Ltds 
account into the reactivated account for H Ltd.
Mr N also asked Bank of Scotland to confirm that cheques on H Ltds account would be 
processed without difficulty. The two signatories on that account were directors Mr N and Mr 
W.
Bank of Scotland didnt reply, despite Mr N sending chase-up letters. He also rang up, 
asking again whether he and Mr W could issue cheques and was told they could. He was 
also told Bank of Scotland would need new signature mandates from the two signatories of 
H Ltd. But these forms werent received and on 7 November Mr N complained. 
Bank of Scotland agreed that H Ltd had received poor service, and sent a cheque for £150 
compensation on 11 November, though it later turned out this couldnt be paid in until the 
dormancy block had been removed. Bank of Scotland said it had arranged for the necessary 
forms to be sent out. But although it had previously said cheques from Mr N and Mr W would 
be honoured, this couldnt happen until the new signature mandate forms had been sent out 
and returned.
Mr N wrote back, pointing out that the signature mandate which a Bank of Scotland branch 
had asked to be completed was for a Mr S. Mr S had been a previous director who had 
resigned and then died in 2009. Mr N said that this was clearly shown on Companies House 
 and that hed notified Bank of Scotland twice about this in 2009.
On 20 February 2020, Mr N spoke to Bank of Scotland. A complaints manager told him 
which sections of the various forms needed to be completed. He wrote again in June  but in 
late July Bank of Scotland replied saying it still hadnt received the forms which its adviser 
had discussed with Mr N in February.
Mr N wrote back to say that he and Mr W had signed the pages of the bank mandate which 
the February adviser had said were needed. Theyd returned them on 20 February and had 
sent them to the complaints manager personally who had told them what to do in February. 
Theyd done what this complaints manager had told them, instead of a 24 page form which 
had previously been sent to them. Mr N wasnt happy that Bank of Scotland had now said 
that it hadnt received anything and had sent yet another copy of the 24 page form.
On 17 September, the complaints manager replied to say that she hadnt received any 
forms. She asked Mr N and Mr W to complete the 24 page form and return it either by 
recorded post, or to a customer service email address. 
On 23 September, Mr N replied, but instead of the completed forms he sent a photocopy of 
the original mandate which had been signed before the account was dormant. He chased 
several times, but didnt receive a reply, and complained again in January 2021. He also 
faxed documents.
On 18 January, Bank of Scotland said it needed two more pieces of information from the 
forms. Mr N provided these, and an adviser phoned with an update, saying she was 
confident the forms would be accepted. But on 25 January another adviser rang to say the 
forms had been rejected, and Bank of Scotland would now need fresh original forms. Mr N 
said that the whole process had been an enormous inconvenience, with having to send 
multiple mailings by post, email and fax.
In early February, Mr N tried several times to phone but couldnt get through. He wrote 
again, listing out the nine previous occasions when hed returned forms  but the dormancy 
marker had still not been removed. He complained again.
On 10 February, Bank of Scotland wrote to say that the mandate had been updated and all 
signatories could now use the account. 
So H Ltd then issued a cheque  but it bounced. It turned out that Bank of Scotland hadnt 
removed the dormancy marker. Mr N complained again, both about the mandates not having 
been sorted out, and about the fact that the complaint manager had misinformed Mr N about 
what forms were needed..
In Bank of Scotlands letter of 26 February, it declined H Ltds complaint but offered a further 
£200 compensation for further inconvenience caused. It said the signature mandate had 
been updated despite some confusion which has been caused by the bank. It said the 
account was still marked as dormant, and Bank of Scotland was chasing the team to ensure 
this was processed as soon as possible.
Meanwhile another cheque drawn on H Ltds account bounced because of the block.  And 
Bank of Scotland asked H Ltd to return the £150 compensation cheque which it hadnt been 
able to pay in because of the dormancy block.
On 2 March 2021 Mr N complained again. He said that because of Bank of Scotlands 
failures to activate the dormant account, which had been requested in August 2019, it hadnt 
been possible to close down the business which Ive called C Ltd. This meant that he and 
the other directors of C Ltd had had to have formal accounts prepared for Companies House 
and HMRC for 2019/20 and 2020/21. These totalled £1,668, and Mr N said they also wanted 
to claim for the phone calls, letters and emails caused by all the complaints against Bank of 
Scotland.Bank of Scotland replied with its final response letter on 1 April. It said it wouldnt cover the 
accounting fees because the delays in updating the signature mandate werent a bank error. 
It said that it understood the frustration when H Ltd was told the account could be used, but 
cheques still bounced. This was because of the dormancy block, which Bank of Scotland 
said it had failed to pick up after the signature mandate had been sorted out. It said the block 
had now been removed so H Ltds account could now be used. 
The letter acknowledged that Bank of Scotland hadnt replied to H Ltds complaint as quickly 
as it would have liked, and said that was because there had been queries about the 
complaint, and there had been systems problems. The letter acknowledged not having 
returned calls when promised, and said there were system problems. 
Bank of Scotland said it would pay H Ltd the previous compensation offers of £150 and £200 
(which couldnt have been paid in before, because of the block) and £150 for the latest 
complaint. It said it would credit H Ltds account with the £500 total. It said it would review 
any call costs and postage cost if H Ltd sent evidence, but wouldnt cover the time spent.
H Ltd, represented by Mr N and Mr W, werent satisfied and complained to this service. They 
set out the facts of what had happened, from the letter in August 2019 when they asked to 
reinstate the dormant account, to 12 March 2021 before the account was working. They 
asked for the accountants fees of £1,668 to be reimbursed.
Our investigator recognised that H Ltds directors had had an extremely frustrating time. He 
agreed that Bank of Scotland should have done better throughout. It had been extremely 
inconvenient, tedious and time consuming having to chase Bank of Scotland so often. And at 
various times the signature mandates were accepted then rejected, and further information 
had been requested which indicated that sometimes Bank of Scotland didnt have a clear 
understanding of the issues, and it had sometimes been left to drift. And Bank of Scotland 
had let H Ltd down when it didnt notice that the dormancy indicator was still on the account 
after the signature mandate problem had been resolved in February 2021. But the 
investigator thought the total payment of £500 was reasonable for the significant 
inconvenience, and length of time it had taken to sort out. He said that Bank of Scotland had 
asked Mr N to provide details of call and postage costs, but he couldnt see that Mr N had 
done that. He suggested Mr N should do that either direct to Bank of Scotland, or through 
this service.
The investigator didnt agree that Bank of Scotland should pay for the preparation of the 
accounts  because he thought the delay in obtaining the signature mandate hadnt been 
solely down to Bank of Scotland. 
H Ltd wasnt satisfied. It said that Bank of Scotland had confirmed it could reactivate the 
account using the signatures of Mr N and Mr W. But despite having specimen signatures on 
file, Bank of Scotland had insisted on a fresh mandate form, which had led to a long delay. H 
Ltd said that it had taken eight separate mailings of the mandate form before it had been 
resolved.
And one reason for the mandate form being rejected was that Bank of Scotland had insisted 
that Mr Ss signature was provided. This was despite the fact that the Companies House 
website showed that Mr S had resigned in 2009  which H Ltd had communicated to Bank of 
Scotland and which it had acknowledged.
H Ltd said it was because of Bank of Scotlands gross incompetence that C Ltd couldnt be 
closed when intended in 2019, leading to two more years of accounts being prepared, with 
the unnecessary cost of £1,668. C Ltds account had had to be kept open, because they couldnt otherwise have continued to trade while H Ltds account was blocked. H Ltd asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Compensation for H Ltds inconvenience
In my provisional decision, I said that it was clear that what should have been a simple 
matter of reinstating the dormant account of H Ltd, in August 2019, turned out to be far from 
straightforward.  It shouldnt have taken from August 2019 to March 2021 for this to have 
been sorted out. I considered there would have been considerable inconvenience to H Ltd 
as a result of not being able to access the account for 19 months. Forms werent sent out, or 
it wasnt clear which parts of which very substantial forms were needed. And Bank of 
Scotlands advisers gave conflicting information.
It was also incompetent to require the signature of the late Mr S, when Bank of Scotland had 
been notified of Mr Ss death in 2009. Companies House clearly shows that Mr S was no 
longer a director. Mr N kept having to chase by phone and by letter and this would 
undoubtedly have been very frustrating for him, and would have caused considerable 
inconvenience when he could have been focusing on other matters relating to the company.
I also considered it would have been inconvenient that the compensation payments which 
Bank of Scotland offered over time  for £150 and £200, before the final additional £150  
couldnt actually be received by H Ltd because of the dormancy block. So, for example, the 
first cheque was awarded in November 2019, but it couldnt be paid in and Bank of Scotland 
asked for it to be returned. Bank of Scotlands £500 total complaint compensation was only 
credited in April 2021, well over a year later.
 
Bank of Scotland had said that H Ltd didnt return the mandate forms, which was why it 
didnt uphold that part of H Ltds complaint. I didnt have a record of every single phone call 
over this long period, but I accepted that H Ltd was trying to resolve this. It had kept clear 
helpful records and I considered it was keen to get this sorted out. Its clear that there was 
confusion over multiple forms  some as long as 24 pages  which H Ltd was required to 
complete. I found that Bank of Scotland could have provided much better service to H Ltd in 
helping its directors find a way through the maze. 
I did, however, think that Mr N was over optimistic in his request in September 2020 that a 
photocopy of the original signature mandate should be accepted. I thought it was always 
likely that a photocopy wouldnt do. But Bank of Scotland should have said so straightaway. 
Instead, it didnt respond until January 2021, when it initially said it was confident that what 
Mr N had sent would be sufficient  which was contradicted later. 
It was also a significant failure by Bank of Scotland that it never appeared to notice that the 
dormant marker  which had been the reason why H Ltd got in touch in August 2019  
hadnt been removed. As a result, in February 2021 H Ltd was told that the account could 
now be used but the first cheque bounced multiple times.
So I considered there were significant failings by Bank of Scotland, causing considerable 
inconvenience to H Ltd. In considering compensation, I had to bear in mind that the account holder here is H Ltd, a 
limited company  not Mr N and Mr W personally. The approach to compensation for 
companies is different, and we dont award compensation for trouble and upset to a 
business. Thats because a limited company cant experience distress, pain or suffering in 
the same way an individual person can. This affects the amount of compensation I can 
award.
Taking this into account, I considered a fair and reasonable amount of compensation would 
be £600.
This is separate from any costs relating to phone calls and postage costs. Bank of Scotland 
had offered to reimburse these if H Ltd provides information. So I said that if H Ltd wished to 
request reimbursement, it should send information to us, with its response to this provisional 
decision. I said Id then consider this as part of my considerations for the final decision.
The cost of the accounts for C Ltd
I recognised that Mr N and Mr W feel strongly that it was the delays in reinstating H Ltds 
account which led to the £1,668 accountancy fees. Our investigator didnt agree, on the 
grounds that the delays in obtaining the signature mandates wasnt just down to Bank of 
Scotland. My provisional decision was that I cant award these  but for a different, and 
legally technical, reason.
The account which was dormant, and which Mr H and Mr W tried so hard to reinstate, was 
for H Ltd. This is a legal entity which the Companies House website shows currently has two 
directors, Mr N and Mr W. 
But the cost of the accounts for C Ltd fell on C Ltd. The Companies House website shows 
that C Ltd currently has three directors  Mr N and two others. 
I recognised that both had accounts with Bank of Scotland, and Mr N made the plans clear in 
the August 2019 letter. This was that the plan was that C Ltd would become less active, and 
that once H Ltds account was reinstated, the balance in C Ltds account would be 
transferred to H Ltds account.
But the fact remains that the accountant fee cost for preparing C Ltds accounts was the 
responsibility of C Ltd. Technically, this was nothing to do with the problems of H Ltd  which 
was a different legal entity and apart from Mr N had different directors. I explained that it 
wasnt open to me to award H Ltd compensation for a financial loss incurred by C Ltd.
So my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part and to order 
Bank of Scotland plc to pay H Ltd:
- £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Bank of Scotland has sent 
evidence that it paid £500 on 1 April 2021, which would leave a further £100 to pay;
- If H Ltd wishes to claim for the postage and phone call costs, it should provide 
evidence of this in its response to this provisional decision by the date for responses.
I said that I did not intend to uphold H Ltds claim for reimbursement of the accountancy fees 
which were incurred by C Ltd, because they werent costs which were incurred by H Ltd.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr N sent details of the costs which he wanted Bank of Scotland to refund. These totalled 
£239.20 for phone calls, and £51.91 for letters, making a total of £291.11. He said he had 
nothing further to add.
Bank of Scotland accepted the provisional decision. It also confirmed it was willing to pay the 
£291.11 in costs the customer had incurred. It said that although some of the costs are likely 
to have been incurred in the normal course of communication, it was prepared to cover the 
full amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence, and both sides responses to the provisional decision, I 
consider that the provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In relation to the £291.11 costs which H Ltd has claimed, Bank of Scotland has confirmed its 
willing to pay this amount. So I endorse that, and include it in the order below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay H 
Ltd:
- £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Bank of Scotland paid £500 on 1 
April 2021, which leaves a further £100 to pay;
- £291.11 for the postage and phone call costs set out by Mr N.
I do not uphold H Ltds claim for reimbursement of the accountancy fees which were incurred 
by C Ltd, because they werent costs which were incurred by H Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman