DRN-2303522
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about a lifetime mortgage he took with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited 
in 2003. He was unhappy about the early repayment charge (ERC) that was applied when 
the mortgage was repaid in 2019. Whilst this was refunded, Mr J would like compensation 
for what he considers was a mistake by Aviva in charging it in the first place, along with his 
solicitors costs being paid. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr J and his late wife took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva.  By the spring of 2019 
Mr Js health had deteriorated, but Aviva was told by a family member that he didnt need to 
move into care as he was still able to look after himself. However, it was subsequently 
decided Mr J should move closer to his family so they could provide him with care and 
support. An appropriate property was available and so Mr J sold his home and moved. 
In July 2019 Mr Js solicitors asked Aviva for a redemption statement. Aviva asked the 
solicitors some questions about Mr Js circumstances and the sale of his property. It was 
confirmed that Mr J didnt need long-term care. The redemption statement was then 
produced including the ERC payable. The mortgage was paid off later that month and a 
complaint was made on Mr Js behalf about him having been charged an ERC. 
Aviva responded by explaining why the ERC had been charged and how it had been 
calculated. It didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr Js representative confirmed it didnt accept Avivas stance at the beginning of August 
2019. It highlighted the mortgage offer said if the property was being sold because the 
property owner needed care, the ERC would be waived. It explained to Aviva that Mr J had 
moved out of the property because he needed long-term care, which would be provided by 
his family. The solicitor said that Aviva hadnt asked the reason the property was being sold 
before applying the ERC. It said Mr J had no recollection of the exact terms and conditions 
of the mortgage  it said if the ERC was not refunded, it would refer a complaint to this 
service, and it said the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
A few days later, before Aviva responded, the solicitor asked, if Aviva was not willing to 
immediately refund the ERC, that an assessment form be provided (so Aviva could consider 
whether the ERC should be refunded). It said that Mr J and his family were unaware of the 
need for a formal assessment and it wasnt made clear when the redemption statement was 
asked for.
At the beginning of September 2019 Aviva hadnt responded to the solicitors request, 
despite it chasing. So the solicitor made a formal complaint about the ERC not having been 
refunded. A few days later Aviva responded to the complaint. It explained that it had specific 
criteria for the long-term care waiver of the ERC to be applied. It explained those criteria 
were and provided the relevant forms to be completed so that it could assess Mr Js situation 
It also confirmed that it had called the solicitors office and had it confirmed, before the 
redemption statement was issued, that Mr J didnt require long-term care. As such, Aviva 
didnt consider it had made an error.
The solicitor didnt accept what Aviva said  it said the long-term care questions in July 2019 
had been asked of a legal secretary, which was inappropriate. It said it didnt think the 
documentation associated with the mortgage made it sufficiently clear that there was an 
opportunity for a vulnerable individual to take steps to reduce the ERC. 
The assessment form was returned to Aviva at the end of November 2019. After it had 
assessed the evidence, Aviva accepted the sale of Mr Js property had been due to the need 
for long-term care and so refunded the ERC. 
Aviva offered Mr J a sum of £400 compensation for any upset its handling of the matter may 
have caused him. However, his solicitors didnt accept this sum. It also said that it had 
charged £750 plus VAT for corresponding with Aviva about the ERC, speaking to Mr J, 
discussions with his GP and reviewing documentation. It considered Aviva should pay those 
costs and that the compensation should be in the region of £1,000. The complaint was 
referred to this service when Aviva was not willing to change its position. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr Js representative didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It said he appeared to 
have relied on Avivas position that they relied on comments made by a junior secretary 
without having made proper enquiries of a duly authorised executive at the firm of solicitors. 
It asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva asked reasonable questions at the time to gauge whether there was the possibility that 
an assessment of Mr Js situation needed to be made to determine if an ERC was payable. It 
was told the Mr J wasnt selling because he needed long-term care, which was the 
requirement to have the ERC waived. I dont consider it was unreasonable for it to rely on 
the answers it was given and as such, it was also not unreasonable for it to have charged 
the ERC. 
Whilst the solicitor has concerns that the questions were asked of someone too junior to 
answer; Aviva wouldnt have been aware of the individuals position. If that individual wasnt 
in a position to answer the questions, it was for them to highlight that fact to Aviva and to 
pass the questions to someone more appropriate. 
When Aviva was given the information it needed to make an assessment of Mr Js situation, 
it refunded the ERC. The assessment and refund were completed in a reasonable period, so 
I cant find Aviva did anything wrong in this regard. 
However, Avivas service did fall short of what it should have been in August 2019, when 
correspondence was not responded to. Aviva has offered £400 compensation and I think 
that is a reasonable sum in the circumstances.
The solicitor has asked that its fees be paid for the work it did in pursuing the refund of the 
ERC and the complaint against Aviva. As our investigator has pointed out, we cant ask 
Aviva to cover costs unless it can be found that it made an error. I have said above, I dont 
consider it did make an error when it charged the ERC. In addition, I dont consider legal 
representation was needed when approaching Aviva about a refund of the ERC, in completing the relevant forms for Aviva to be able to assess the situation or when referring 
the complaint to this service.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
9 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman