DRN-2129649
The complaint
Mr Rs complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) repeatedly gave him the wrong 
information about how to switch his accounts to them.  So the switch was delayed and Mr R 
suffered some stress as a result.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr R decided to switch several of his bank accounts into the account he had 
with Santander.  He sent Santander a secure message asking what he needed to do.  
Santander told him he could do this online, in a branch or by telephone.
Mr R tried to switch online.  But he found he couldnt do that.  When he contacted 
Santander, he found out this was because he was trying to switch into an existing account.  
Santander only allowed online switching when it was part of opening a new account with 
them.
Mr R complained to Santander that hed been given incorrect information by their staff.  
Santander at first acknowledged his complaint by sending him the same, incorrect, 
information about how to switch. But then Santander investigated. They upheld Mr Rs 
complaint and apologised for giving him the wrong information.  
Mr R thought that Santander ought to pay him compensation, as well as apologising.  
Santander considered that.  But their investigation found that Mr R had made an identical 
complaint seven months earlier  which theyd upheld and for which theyd paid Mr R £25 
compensation.  So they said that Mr R wouldve been aware of how to switch accounts to 
Santander as a result of his earlier complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Santanders response.  So he brought his complaint to us.  He 
said he should be able to rely on getting the right information from Santander.  He thought 
Santander should have to change the incorrect information held on their system.  And he 
thought they should pay him £200 compensation for their mistake.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that Santander had dealt with it 
properly.  She explained that our role was to look at Mr Rs complaint and the impact it had 
on him  not to punish Santander by making them pay Mr R compensation.  She thought the 
earlier complaint Mr R had made was recent enough that it was reasonable to have 
expected him to remember what hed been told then.  And she said that Santanders website 
gives the right information about how to switch.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from what Ive considered that Mr R thinks that Santander should be penalised for 
not given him the right information about how to switch his account  and be required to 
correct their systems.  I can understand why hed feel that way.  But  as our investigator 
explained  our role is to consider the impact of errors on individual consumers.  So Ive 
thought about the impact Santanders mistake had on Mr R  and whether that means they 
should do more than apologise to him.
The parties agree the information Santander gave Mr R was wrong.  That was unfortunate.  
But Ive seen that Mr R was given the right information three days later, when he checked 
the position with Santander.  And Ive seen that his accounts were switched less than two 
weeks after Mr R first contacted them.  Im satisfied from this that the inconvenience 
Santander caused Mr R was minor and short lived.
Ive thought about whether Santander should pay Mr R compensation.  But Im not satisfied 
that the impact of their error was enough to justify that.   
Ive seen that Santander made Mr R aware of how to switch accounts when he made his 
earlier complaint.  And they paid him compensation then.  
I think its reasonable for Santander to expect Mr R to recall what he was told in their reply to 
his first complaint and apply it when he wanted to make more switches.  So I dont think 
Santander need to do anything more than theyve already done to address Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman