DRN-2733700
The complaint
Mr M and Ms W (the complainants) are represented. They say Craig Mitchell (CM) is 
responsible for their unsuitable investment  in Ms Ws name but funded by Mr M  in UK 
Property Development Solutions (UKPDS) PLC bonds (the bonds) in January 2017. CM 
disputes the complaint. Its principal says he never met the complainants, that he never 
communicated with them and that CM did not advise their investment in the bonds.
What happened
The complainants and their representative have shared some documentation to support the 
complaint.
A copy of the application for the bonds has been given to us. It includes Ms Ws details and 
signature (dated 15 December 2016) as the applicant; Mr Ms bank details for the funding of 
the investment; and in the section for their advisers details, and in a different handwriting, 
CMs principals name is given. CMs details (including its FCA number) as the Authorised 
Adviser and its principals signature (also dated 15 December 2016) feature in this section. 
CMs principal says he completed this section under the misunderstanding that he was 
verifying the complainants identities, not to affirm that he had advised them.
The complainants evidence  as presented between them and their representative  about 
their circumstances at the time of the investment, and about the circumstances leading to 
the investment, is mainly as follows:
Mr M was retired and Ms W was employed; neither had incomings more than 
£10,000 per year; between them they had around £70,000 in savings, and 
investments in an ISA and in what appears to have been conventional fixed rate 
bonds; neither had experience of an investment similar to the UKPDS bonds; the 
invested capital belonged to Mr M and he expressly requested for the bonds to be in 
joint names with Ms W, but they were issued only in Ms Ws name (on 31 January 
2017).
They were neither sophisticated investors nor high net worth investors.  
They were introduced to UKPDS and the bonds by a third-party introducer; they also 
relied on CMs confirmation of suitability (in the advisers undertaking it gave in their 
application form). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
She referred to regulatory guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the Perimeter Guidance 
Manual (PERG)) on what constitutes advice and to the contents of CMs advisers 
undertaking in the complainants application for the bonds. She concluded that the 
undertaking is evidence that CM stood as the adviser for the investment. She did not accept 
that the undertaking was given to verify the complainants identities.
In terms of suitability, the investigator concluded that CM had not properly assessed 
suitability of the bonds in the manner required by regulations. She considered that the bonds 
were unsuitable for the complainants because they were particularly high-risk investments, 
they were mini bonds issued by start-up companies to raise capital, being companies that 
also had a higher risk of failure  and she considered that, in contrast, the complainants 
profiles (with modest incomes and limited investment experience) suggests they should not 
have been exposed to any risk.
CMs principal disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his original position on the 
complaint. He added that the absence of advice related documentation shows a lack of merit 
in the complaint, and that CM was not authorised to give investment advice at the time of the 
complainants investment, so it could and would not have done so.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulated Activity
In the context of investments and in terms of the subject matters we can address in a 
complaint, the regulator defines our jurisdiction in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
its Handbook. It does so as follows:
DISP 2.3.1
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one of more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001, and 
also in the context of investments, regulated activities include advising on investments. 
Investment advice is therefore a regulated activity. Investment advice is defined as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
The PERG guidance that the investigator referred to says as follows:
PERG 8.28.2
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particularcontext in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that the
information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser)
before making a final decision.
There does not appear to have been direct engagement between the complainants and CM, 
because of the role played by the introducer, but there is evidence of the advisers 
undertaking that CM gave in their application for the bonds. A key message in the PERG 
8.28 guidance is the need to establish that a value judgement, about the merits of an 
investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, which influenced the latters 
investment decision. CMs signed advisers undertaking said  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
It is reasonable to conclude that the above undertaking from CM presented, to the 
complainants, its value judgment that the investment in the bonds was suitable for them. It 
says as much, and it does so with express and specific reference to the regulators rule that 
defines suitability (that is, COBS 9). It would have been reasonable for the complainants to 
believe the investment was suitable given CMs clear and signed undertaking that it was. 
The undertaking assured them about investing in the bonds.
The contents of CMs undertaking also make it implausible that CMs principal 
misunderstood its purpose. He says he never met or engaged with the complainants. That 
begs the question: why (and how) would he verify their identities, the identities of people he 
says he never knew or met or spoke to, as he says he believed he was doing? Furthermore, 
and importantly, nothing in the above undertaking relates to verifying their identities. As the 
guidance says, advice includes any communication with the customer. I consider that CMs 
provision of the above undertaking to the complainants amounted to a communication of the 
undertaking  and of the message of suitability within it  to them.
Overall, I accept that the undertaking influenced the complainants decision to proceed with 
the investment. This meets the guidances reference to advice influencing the customers 
investment (or buy or sell) decision. Confirmation of independent financial advice was a 
pre-requisite to investing in the bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser 
undertaking within the application form. CM gave that undertaking and that made the 
complainants investment possible. 
For the reasons given above, I consider that CM undertook responsibility for advising the 
complainants investment in the bonds and for conveying the message to them that they 
were suitable. If CM did not give such advice directly to them, its undertaking confirms that it 
assessed suitability of the bonds and the same undertaking communicated the outcome of 
its assessment to them. If CM says it conducted no such assessment then the implications that arise are that CMs undertaking was false, that such false undertaking was relied upon 
by the complainants, and that CM holds responsibility for misleading their investment in the 
bond  and it did so by assuring them it had assessed suitability when it had not.
CMs references to absent advice documentation and to lacking authority to advise on 
investments at the time does not alter the above conclusions. I repeat, its advisers 
undertaking says it assessed suitability of the bonds and considered them suitable. If that 
was done at a time when CM did not have the regulators authority to give investment 
advice, then that is a matter between it and the regulator. The lack of such authority does not 
negate evidence that, as a matter of fact, CM stood as adviser for the complainants 
investment and said it had assessed the investment to be suitable for them.
Eligible Complainant
A complainant must be eligible to complain. Otherwise this service cannot consider the 
relevant complaint. The regulators rules DISP rules for an eligible complainant include the 
following:
An eligible complainant must be a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee 
of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. [DISP 2.7.3 R] 
An eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a relationship 
covered by the rules. [my emphasis] [DISP 2.7.6 R]
consumer
This is the only category under DISP 2.7.3 R to consider for the complainants  given that 
they are not a micro enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a 
guarantor. Guidance from the rules says a consumer is any natural person acting for 
purposes outside his [or her] trade, business or profession. The complainants acted as 
individuals in this case. I have not seen evidence to suggest that they were professionals in 
investments or that they conducted such a business or trade  especially as Mr M was 
retired. Their roles in the complaint appear to have been for purposes outside their trade, 
business or profession, so they are consumers.
relationship
The rules cover a number of relationships. In terms of investments, the relationship between 
a customer and a business is one. Guidance from the rules says the word customer should 
be given its natural meaning  that is, a person who buys goods and/or services from a 
business. 
The service rendered to the complainants by CM is confirmed in the undertaking that CM 
gave in their bond application form. That undertaking was required for the application and it 
served the purpose of assuring them that the investment had been assessed suitable for 
them. 
There does not appear to be evidence of payment to CM  payment being what would be 
expected where goods or services are bought from a business. Nevertheless, I do not 
consider that this automatically means they were not customers or that this automatically 
means CM received no payment. Payment to CM could have been made from UKPDS. On 
balance, I consider such payment probable because CM was a commercial going concern 
that provided its services in order to make money. This is not intended as a criticism. Other 
regulated firms share a similar basic characteristic. I have not seen evidence that CMs 
undertaking in the present case was given in the spirit of benevolence, so the implication 
that follows is that CM would have received a commercial reward for that undertaking  and that supports the conclusion that the complainants were its customer. This service has 
received a number of complaints about CM and about the same undertaking it gave to the 
complainants and to a number of different investors in the UKPDS bonds. I consider it 
implausible that it would have given all those undertakings  to unknown people, as its 
principal has maintained  without receiving a commercial reward.
For the above reasons, I consider that the complainants were consumers, were CMs 
customers and are eligible complainants.
Suitability of Mr Gs investment
The bonds had a maturity term of 12 months (extendable to 18 months) and they were used 
by UKPDS to raise capital which it then issued as loans to third-party firms for the business 
of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears that the proceeds of the property 
sales were to be used to service the loans, which then provided funds to be used in paying 
the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). 
This meant there were a number of layers of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was 
not the end user of the capital raised and it does not appear to have had any control over the 
third-party end users; so due diligence on UKPDS and on the end users would have been 
important. There is no evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM for the 
complainants investment. 
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the 
context of the relatively short 12 to 18 months term for the bonds and in the context of the 
bonds brochures confirmation that the end users operations were based on using an  
advanced computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which 
suggests investment decisions not based on due care, skill and analysis by experienced 
managers.
I have not seen evidence that the complainants were high-risk investors with investment 
experience that made it possible for them to understand the risks involved in the UKPDS 
bonds. I agree with the investigators finding that they should not have been exposed to 
risks. A hand-written note, from Mr M, in the application form illustrates his expectation that 
the investment held no risks. The note expressed his request for the bonds to be in joint 
names with Ms W and, in doing so, he referred to the bonds as savings bonds. I am 
persuaded that this shows his expectation, at the time of the investment, that the bonds were 
comparable to a savings-based investment product  where capital is safe  and perhaps 
comparable to the conventional fixed rate bonds he had experience of. It is noteworthy that 
Ms W appears to have had even less investment experience than Mr M, and his experience 
was limited (as summarised above) and did not make him (and Ms W) high risk investors or 
sophisticated investors  which is the sort of investors the bonds called for.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for the complainants; and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  
which it gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put the complainants as close as I can to the position they would probably now be in if they had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS 
bonds. I take the view that they would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair given available information, as summarised above, about their profile at the 
time.
what must CM do?
To compensate the complainants fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of their bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay them compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay them interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide them with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
The UKPDS 
bonds in Ms 
Ws namestill existsthe Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement Not applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Ms W agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Ms W that she repay to CM any amount 
she may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all of those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:As stated above, evidence is that the complainants did not expect exposure to risks 
and Mr M expected an investment with a savings context, where capital was safe.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that the above benchmark matches the investment profile the complainants 
shared in 2016/2017, and that its use in calculating compensation for them would 
reasonably put them into a position that broadly reflects the sort of return they could 
have obtained from a suitable investment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint from Mr M and Ms W, and I order Craig 
Mitchell to pay them compensation as set out above. Craig Mitchell must also provide them 
with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman