DRN-3285889
The complaint
Mr W complains that Gallagher Benefits Consulting Limited formerly T/A Heath Lambert 
Consulting wrongly advised him to transfer his defined benefit occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension plan. 
What happened
Mr W was a deferred member of his employers defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme (the scheme) in which he had 22 years of service relating to his employment from 
1983 to 2005. Mr W left the scheme when his employer sold the site on which he worked to 
another company and all employees were moved to a new defined contribution occupational 
pension scheme. 
In 2008, Mr Ws former employer engaged Gallagher to approach a group of employees to 
offer to transfer their pensions out of the scheme. Mr W attended a presentation and 
received a letter from Gallagher which contained his employers written offer. The offer 
constituted an (enhanced) cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £144,285.66 along with 
a cash payment of £11,333.24 (separate from the pension) for making the transfer. 
Gallagher told Mr W in the offer letter that the CETV had been enhanced by his employer (by 
about £22,000) and that the additional cash payment could be spent as he wished. 
Mr W accepted the offer and his pension was transferred in July 2008. He also received the 
cash payment. 
Approaching the age of 60 in 2020, Mr W began reviewing his pension benefits and planning 
for retirement. On reviewing his transferred pension, Mr W thought it may have been mis-
sold to him by Gallagher in 2008. In November 2020, Mr W wrote to Gallagher to complain. 
He said that the offer to transfer his scheme was unsolicited and to his significant detriment. 
He also said it included a cash payment that significantly affected his decision. And he said 
that the risks of making the transfer werent fully explained and he didnt understand them. 
So, Mr W said, hed been left with much worse pension benefits as result of the transfer. 
Gallagher looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said 
that his former employer had sent him a letter, as had the trustees of his former scheme, in 
the early part of 2008 explaining that he would receive an information pack which would 
include details of the offer. Gallagher said the letter from Mr Ws former employer also 
included a recommendation to seek independent financial advice from a person authorised 
to advise on pension transfers in order to determine if the transfer was suitable for him. The 
employer went to say that it had not appointed Gallagher to provide Mr W with independent 
financial advice.
Gallagher explained that it had then produced and sent him an information pack about the 
transfer. It said the pack also strongly recommended that Mr W take personalised 
independent financial advice which, it now noted, he hadnt done.
Gallagher also said that its role was strictly limited to communicating the transfer exercise 
being carried out by his employer. It said no personal financial advice was provided to Mr W. 
It said it had only issued generic guidance accompanied by a table of critical yields 
applicable to different scenarios. It said it had never suggested that Mr Ws future pension 
would improve if he transferred his scheme and that the information it had provided to him 
was fair, balanced and clear. It said whilst no individual advice had been given the 
information pack had explained the main implications and risks of accepting the offer. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to Gallagher, Mr W complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She said 
she was satisfied that Gallagher hadnt provided any advice or recommendation to Mr W to 
transfer his scheme to a personal pension. She said that Gallaghers role had been strictly 
limited to communicating the transfer exercise carried out by Mr Ws former employer and 
that no advice had been given. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he was surprised Gallagher had no 
responsibility even for the message it communicated on behalf of his employer. And he said 
he was surprised our investigator hadnt commented on whether Gallagher had 
demonstrated a duty of care to him or on the cash incentive hed received. He said either 
Gallagher or his employer was at fault because he had been financially disadvantaged as a 
result of taking up the offer. Finally he asked if he should direct his complaint to his former 
employer. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded by what Mr W said to change her mind so the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr W now finds 
himself, I dont think this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Jurisdiction
This is a complaint that has been brought about an event that occurred 14 years ago. So 
before I explain my thoughts about the complaint itself I need to consider whether it has 
been brought within the time limits that apply. Our rules are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of its handbook. Under DISP 2.8.2, it explains 
that a complaint must be brought to us within 6  years of the event being complained about 
(here that wouldve been by 2014) or, if later, within 3 years of when the consumer was 
aware, or ought reasonably have been aware, that they had cause to complaint. 
I can see our investigator, having been told by Gallagher that it didnt consent to us looking 
at the complaint outside of the 6-year time limit, went on to consider when Mr W became 
aware that he had cause for complaint. I can see that Mr W told our investigator that he first 
realised he had cause to complain just before he wrote to Gallagher in November 2020, 
having recently been reviewing his retirement provision. So Im satisfied that Mr W brought 
his complaint to this service well within the 3-year time limit set out in our rules. And I note 
that Gallagher hasnt disagreed. 
So, if follows that Im satisfied that this is a complaint that can be considered by this service. 
The complaintIve looked at all the evidence associated with Mr Ws complaint and Im satisfied that 
Gallagher didnt recommend that he transfer his scheme in 2008. Ive seen no evidence that 
it advised Mr W in any way. 
I can see that it was the trustees of Mr Ws scheme that first wrote to Mr W in February 2008 
followed by his employer in April 2008. Gallagher was appointed by Mr Ws employer to 
provide and communicate information about the offer it was making. I can see that the 
information pack and the letter accompanying it included several recommendations that Mr 
W seek independent financial advice about the options he was being offered. I can see too 
that Gallagher offered to provide that advice to Mr W providing he complete its questionnaire 
and pay its fee. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr W took Gallaghers offer up or sought any 
advice from an IFA of his own choosing. 
I cant reasonably hold Gallagher responsible for advice it didnt provide. And whilst it 
communicated Mr Ws employers offer to him it was under no duty to assess its suitability 
for his circumstances. If Mr W wanted to know if the offer was suitable then he would have 
needed to take financial advice either from Gallagher or another IFA. 
And the cash incentive Mr W received was paid by his employer, not Gallagher. So I cant 
reasonably hold Gallagher responsible for something it had no involvement in. I can see that 
Gallagher reminded Mr W that he was under no obligation to accept the cash offer and that 
he had a right to retain his pension benefits in the scheme. 
So Im satisfied that Gallaghers role was strictly limited to communicating the transfer 
exercise carried out by Mr Ws former employer and that no recommendation was given. As 
there was no recommendation there can be no unsuitable advice. I do of course appreciate 
that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr W but I cant, taking all the 
circumstances into account, reasonably recommend his complaint against Gallagher is 
upheld. 
Finally I cant advise Mr W whether he should make a complaint to his former employer; that 
is a matter for him alone.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman