DRN-2829830
The complaint
Mr N complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner. 
What happened
Mr N was given three loans by ELL between April 2017 and July 2019 as shown in the table 
below. Mr N used some of the proceeds of the second and third loan to repay his earlier 
borrowing from ELL. I understand that a balance remains outstanding on the final loan.
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount Term 
(Months)
1 18/04/2017 Refinanced £ 2,000 24
2 07/03/2018 Refinanced £ 3,010 36
3 05/07/2019 - £ 4,500 36
Mr Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks ELL had done before each of the loans were agreed had been proportionate. But she 
thought the results of those checks showed that Mr N was having serious problems 
managing his money. So she didnt think any of the loans should have been agreed and 
asked ELL to pay Mr N some compensation.
ELL told us that it accepted the adjudicators findings in relation to the last two loans, but 
asked for some more time to consider the findings in relation to loan 1. It later told us that 
there had been a miscommunication and asked for the complaint to be decided by an 
ombudsman. It isnt clear to me whether ELL still accepts our adjudicators findings in 
relation to the last two loans, so I will consider each of the loans afresh. This is the last stage 
of our process. If Mr N accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Mr N required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr N. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr N undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr N.
ELL gathered some information from Mr N before it agreed each loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical 
data to estimate Mr Ns remaining expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how well he was managing his credit. And it looked at 
copies of Mr Ns bank statements to verify the information hed provided.
On each loan Mr N was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for periods of between two and three years. So I think it was right 
that ELL wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ns 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks I have 
described above allowed ELL to achieve that aim. I think the checks ELL did before agreeing 
each loan were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Sometimes that will lead a 
lender to request additional information from a consumer. Or sometimes it will lead a lender 
to reject a loan application outright. And having reviewed the information shown on Mr Ns 
bank statements and credit file that is what I think should have happened here.At the time of the first loan Mr Ns bank statements showed that his expenditure was far 
higher than the amount ELL had used in its affordability calculations. Mr N was making 
significant payments to an investment firm  as part of his loan application hed told ELL 
about losses hed previously made through investments on commodities. And Mr N was 
funding a shortfall in his disposable income by borrowing from a number of short-term 
lenders. He had taken on average a new short-term loan each month over the previous six 
months.
Mr Ns credit file showed that he had started to fall behind on some of his borrowing. I think it 
was clear that he was using credit in an unsustainable manner. That means he was taking 
new loans to meet his obligations in repaying previous borrowing. Mr N told ELL that he 
wanted to use its loan to consolidate some payday lending. But I think that rather than 
putting his finances back onto a sound footing, ELL should have been concerned that its 
lending would simply continue the unsustainable cycle of debt that Mr N found himself 
facing. So I dont think this loan should have been agreed.
Less than halfway through the term of the first loan Mr N asked to borrow again from ELL. 
He again told the lender he wanted to refinance some other short-term loans, and use part of 
the loan to repay his earlier borrowing from ELL. So I think ELL should have been concerned 
that Mr Ns pattern of unsustainable borrowing appeared to have continued. His bank 
statements again showed that his spending was significantly higher than the estimate ELL 
had used, and that his outgoings were far in excess of his income. He continued to borrow 
heavily, using new borrowing to repay earlier loans. And the credit check showed that Mr N 
had now entered arrears on a least two of his credit accounts.
When Mr N asked for the third loan  just over twelve months into the three-year loan term  
ELLs credit check didnt show any other active loans. But Mr Ns bank statements continued 
to show that his income was being heavily supported by other borrowing. In the month 
before this loan was agreed, hed borrowed £800 from a short-term lender, almost £4,000 
from a credit union, and had received almost £8,000 from family members. He continued to 
spend far in excess of the amounts that ELL detailed in its affordability calculation.
So in summary I think that the checks ELL did before each loan were proportionate. But 
I think the results from those checks clearly showed that Mr N was facing serious problems 
managing his money and would be unlikely to be able to repay any additional borrowing in a 
sustainable manner. So I dont think ELL should have agreed to give any of the loans to 
Mr N and needs to pay him some compensation.
  
Putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed to give any of the loans to Mr N. So ELL should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr N paid on loans 1 and 2 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat all the 
payments Mr N made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ns loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr N effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. If reworking Mr Ns loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
ELL can use the total refund for loans 1 and 2 (after the deduction of tax) to offset 
this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind ELL that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr N
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation to the loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman