DRN-4118644
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the quality of a car she acquired using a finance agreement 
with First Response Finance Ltd.
Mrs C has been represented in bringing her complaint. But for clarity, Ill refer to all 
submissions made on her behalf, as having been made by her directly.
What happened
Mrs C entered into a finance agreement for a used car. At the point of supply, it was seven 
years old and had 43,911 miles on the clock. One and a half years later, Mrs C reported a 
problem with the engine. However, First Response didnt think it was responsible for this, so 
Mrs C brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He was satisfied, on balance, that the fault hadnt been present, or 
developing, at the point of supply. This was because the problem hadnt manifested itself 
until a year and a half after the car was supplied, and had covered a further 12,000 miles. 
He was also persuaded by an independent assessment that was carried out, which 
concluded that the issue wasnt present, or developing, at the point of supply. Rather, it was 
consistent with an interruption in oil supply to the bottom of the engine. Although he was 
aware that an oil leak was investigated in March 2021, the dealership had repaired this. And 
once it was repaired, an MOT was passed with no advisories, six months passed and a 
further 5,000 miles were completed without any issues. So, he didnt think it likely that the 
repair had failed.
Mrs C disagreed. She feels there was a further oil leak. She also believes this was present 
at the point of supply, and the car had likely already suffered damage, which caused the 
engine to blow up. She explained shes always maintained the cars oil levels. She also said 
that the warranty, which was also financed by way of the agreement, was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators findings, and for the same reasons he gave. I 
know this will be very disappointing for Mrs C, but Ill explain why. Where I dont refer to 
specific submissions, this isnt because I havent considered them. Rather, Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the key issues, to allow me to reach a fair outcome.
Im satisfied, on balance, that the oil leak, which was reported after Mrs C had the car for just 
under six months, was repaired. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that it was either present 
at the point of supply, or that the repair failed. The inspection report also supports there likely 
not being an issue at the point of supply. Although I appreciate that Mrs C feels there was a 
problem at the point of sale, which ultimately led to the engine issues, I dont think theres 
enough evidence for me to find this, on balance  particularly given the time that had 
passed, the mileage covered in that time, and the reports findings.
As regards the warranty, Ive seen nothing to suggest it was mis-sold. The fact a claim was 
declined, based on the terms and conditions, isnt sufficient to show this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman