DRN-2263351
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Ltd (Tesco) delayed arranging a surveyor visit 
and then declined her claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs W had buildings and contents insurance with Tesco. Mrs Ws son brought the complaint 
on her behalf but, for ease, Ill simply refer to Mrs W throughout my decision.
During a period of high winds, the fascia came down from Mrs Ws home. She made a claim 
under her buildings insurance for storm damage. Tesco appointed a surveyor to inspect the 
damage. 
Three days later, Mrs W called Tesco because the surveyor hadnt arranged an inspection 
and it could be another two days before it offered an appointment.
The surveyor arranged an appointment, which was for nine days after Mrs W had first 
reported the damage. Mrs W contacted Tesco again because the noise from the fascia was 
disturbing her sleep and she was concerned that the planned appointment wouldnt leave 
time for repairs before she went away a few days later. Tesco tried to arrange for a different 
surveyor to attend, but there wasnt any availability. It also discussed with Mrs W the 
possibility of her arranging the repairs and Tesco would look at a cash settlement if it 
accepted the claim. Mrs W agreed to arrange for her own roofer to complete a repair.
After the inspection, the surveyor reported that the timber fascia boards were rotten, so they 
werent holding the UPVC fascia securely. Tesco declined the claim because it didnt think 
the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Mrs W complained to Tesco, but it maintained that the damage was due to wear and tear.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She thought that Tesco had fairly relied on 
the surveyors report and that it had declined the claim in line with the policy. Our 
investigator also thought the delayed surveyor appointment was unavoidable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs W didnt agree. She thought Tesco hadnt done enough to prioritise the surveyor 
appointment considering her vulnerability, disturbed sleep, and the water coming into her 
home. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Tesco doesnt dispute that there was a storm or that the damage is consistent with that 
typically caused by a storm. But it didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
So, its for me to decide whether it was fair, and in line with the policy terms, for Tesco to 
decline Mrs Ws claim due to the condition of the fascia boards.
Mrs Ws policy covers her home for storm damage in certain circumstances. Cover is not 
available for:
5. Loss or damage:
That does not arise from one identifiable incident which directly and immediately caused the 
loss or damage.
And, under the general exclusions:
You are not covered for:
loss, damageas a result of a lack of general maintenance to your home;
damage caused directly or indirectly by wet or dry rot.
Ive looked at the photos and description of the damage in the surveyors report. I think its 
fair to rely on the surveyors report as an accurate description of the damage in the absence 
of any other documented, expert report. The report describes the fascia boards as rotten and 
I think the photos support that. The wood has blackened and broken away in places, 
meaning it couldnt hold the UPVC fascia securely. So, I think it was reasonable that Tesco 
relied on the above policy exclusions to decline Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W thought that we shouldve considered the but for test  but for the storm, the fascia 
wouldnt have come down. For this reason, she thinks Tesco shouldve accepted her claim. I 
understand the point shes making, but I dont agree. I dont think theres any doubt that the 
fascia came down during the storm. But I find the evidence of the rotten fascia boards as the 
root cause of the damage more persuasive. Using the but for test, I think its fair Tesco 
decided that, but for the existing damage, the fascia wouldnt have come down in the storm.
I understand that Mrs W is unhappy that it was nine days before a surveyor inspected the 
damage. During that time, she couldnt sleep properly because of the noise when the 
damaged fascia banged against her home in the wind.
Ive looked at the policy to see whether it sets out a minimum timeframe in which Tesco will 
send a surveyor to inspect damage. The policy is silent on this. So, Ive gone on to think 
about whether the delay was reasonable in the circumstances. Tesco contacted its surveyor, 
but there werent any earlier available appointments. It followed up with the surveyor when 
Mrs W called, but it still couldnt arrange a visit any sooner. I see that Tesco then contacted 
another company to see whether it could attend but its efforts were unsuccessful. 
During periods of bad weather, its understandable that demand for damage inspections will 
be high. Here, Tesco appointed the surveyor straightaway, and tried to arrange an 
appointment sooner with two more surveyors. So, I think the delays were outside Tescos 
control and, therefore, unavoidable.  
Mrs W thinks Tesco shouldve prioritised her claim due to vulnerability and the water coming 
through the roof into her home. I know shed made Tesco aware of her vulnerability  its 
recorded in the contact notes when she called to chase up the surveyor inspection. 
However, I havent seen any evidence that she told Tesco rain was coming through her roof, 
and the information she supplied suggests that it was more of a possibility than a statement 
of fact.While the delay in attending an appointment was unavoidable, I see that Tesco told Mrs W 
that she could arrange for her own repairs and, if it accepted the claim, it would cash settle. 
Mrs W confirmed she had a roofer available to carry out the repair. So, I dont think Tesco 
wouldve necessarily had any cause for concern regarding her vulnerability or the possibility 
that rain was coming through her roof. 
 
I sympathise with Mrs Ws situation, but I cant fairly say that Tesco did anything wrong here. 
It appointed a surveyor; apologised for the delay; made a reasonable effort to prevent 
delays; made sure Mrs W could arrange her own repairs, and explained the policy terms 
under which it had declined her claim. I realise she will have been upset by its decision, but 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman