DRN-3389466
The complaint
P complain about the decision of West Bay Insurance Plc to decline its business interruption 
claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
P operates as a sauna and spa business. It held a commercial insurance policy underwritten 
in part by West Bay. In March 2020, several staff members displayed symptoms of 
COVID-19 and P closed its business from 17 March. On 20 March 2020, the UK Prime 
Minister announced that certain types of business should close to help limit the spread of 
COVID-19. This included gyms and leisure centres. And, on 21 March 2020, the Health 
Protection (Coronavirus, Business Closure) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) were made requiring spas, and indoor gyms, swimming pools and other 
leisure centres to remain closed. Further regulations were also made on 26 March 2020. P 
remained closed as a result until July 2020.
P contacted West Bay to claim for its losses. Much of the correspondence involved a third 
party, but for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred P and West Bay as they are the 
parties to this complaint. West Bay declined the claim. Initially it was not satisfied that P had 
demonstrated that there had been an insured event; effectively that it had not been shown 
there had been a manifestation of COVID-19 at Ps premises. West Bay also said that even 
if there had been such an event, this did not mean there was any cover for the interruption 
resulting from the impact of the March Regulations. 
West Bay did not initially change its stance when P complained. However, since P has 
brought its complaint to this service, West Bay has accepted that there was more likely than 
not a manifestation of COVID-19 at Ps premises on or around 17 March 2020. West Bay 
has therefore offered to pay Ps losses for the couple of days it was closed prior to the Prime 
Ministers announcement. However, it has maintained that this does not lead to any cover for 
the period P was closed as a result of the announcement or March Regulations. 
Our Investigator shared a copy of a previous decision of this service which found that there 
was cover for the impact of the government-imposed restrictions, following a similar insured 
event as in this case. Her opinion was that the same conclusion should be reached in Ps 
case. 
Effectively, the Investigators opinion was that whilst the courts in The Financial Conduct 
Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 and the related judgment in 
the court at first instance (the FCA test case) were not asked to consider terms, as in Ps 
policy, where the relevant event of disease happened at the premises (at the premises 
clauses), the findings of the Supreme Court in relation to policies requiring that event 
happen with a particular radius of the premises (radius clauses) were useful in considering 
at the premises clause related complaints. 
The Investigator said that the Supreme Court had essentially found that each case of 
COVID-19 was a separate but broadly equal cause of the Governments response to the 
pandemic and the business interruption that resulted from this. That they were each 
concurrent proximate causes of the Governments decisions. And that these decisions had 
taken into account reported and unreported cases. As such, the Investigator considered that 
the case of COVID-19 that West Bay had accepted had manifested on Ps premises was a 
concurrent cause of the March Regulations. 
The Investigator also said that the March Regulations were made by the Government 
following the advice of the Chief Medical Officer for England. And that it was reasonable to 
consider that this was the advice of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority, 
which is what the policy required. 
So, the Investigator considered the impact of the restrictions on P was something that was 
covered by the policy. She thought Ps claim should be met, subject to any remaining terms 
of the policy, on the basis that the closure of its premises from 20 March 2020 was caused 
by an insured event. She also thought interest should be added to the settlement of the 
claim. 
However, West Bay were not persuaded by the Investigators opinion. It has made a number 
of arguments. These have included that the FCA test case was not seeking to resolve issues 
relating to at the premises clauses, and that the findings on radius clauses were based on 
the contemplated risk being that a notifiable disease could affect a wide area. West Bay 
considers the geographic scope of the insuring clause to be relevant to the issue of 
causation and say that this was the reasoning of the Supreme Court in the FCA test case.
West Bay also referred to the recommendations of an Investigator in a separate case 
considered by this service, which related to a claim for losses relating to a manifestation of 
disease after the March Regulations, and said that these findings in this case meant there 
should be no cover for P either. Effectively, West Bay has said that P could have cleaned its 
premises and reopened prior to the Governments decision, and so the case of COVID-19 at 
its premises would no longer be an issue and hence could not be considered a concurrent 
cause of the March Regulations. 
As West Bay has not agreed with the Investigators opinion, this complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ps claim, and this complaint, requires me to consider amongst other things the entire 
contract of insurance between P and West Bay. I have done so and both parties are aware 
of the terms of this agreement. But it useful to set out the most relevant clause here. 
The business interruption section of Ps policy provides cover for a number of events. Many 
of these relate to damage and it isnt argued that damage as required by the policy is what 
led to Ps business being interrupted. But the business interruption section also provides 
cover for insured loss in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
West Bay has accepted Ps argument that there was most likely a manifestation of 
COVID-19 at the insured premises in the week commencing 16 March 2020. It isnt disputed 
that COVID-19 is a relevant disease in terms of the policy term relevant to Ps claim. So, what remains for me to determine is whether this means Ps claim should be met and, if so, 
to what extent. As part of this, I will need to consider the meaning of the Medical Officer of 
Health of the Public Authority as this term is not defined within the policy. 
The clause above, as it appears in Ps policy, has a number of elements. In their correct 
causal sequence, these are:
1. a manifestation of a notifiable human disease at Ps premises, which causes
2. closure or restrictions placed on the premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority, which cause
3. an interruption or interference with Ps business that is the cause of financial loss.
The main issue in determining whether Ps complaint should be upheld beyond the existing 
offer of West Bay to cover the initial couple of days P was closed, is to consider whether the 
approach taken by the Supreme Court to radius clauses should also be applied to the above 
clause, given the content of that clause and the context of the rest of policy and 
circumstances. 
Some of the terms considered by the Supreme Court referred to the occurrence of a 
disease, whereas others  like Ps policy  required there to have been a manifestation. I 
dont consider there to be any significant difference here in terms of the application of the 
reasoning around causation. The only difference is in relation to the circumstances covered 
and the proof required to evidence that. An occurrence of a disease can take place without 
the individual who has sustained the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given some 
other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the premises. 
Once this evidential burden is overcome, the application of the courts reasoning on 
causation is, in my view, unlikely to be different.
Largely speaking, the question of whether the placing of restrictions on Ps premises by the 
announcement and March Regulations was as a result of the manifestation of COVID-19 at 
Ps premises, is one of causation. The appropriate test of causation here is to consider, 
objectively and in the context of the policy as a whole, what the intended effect of the policy 
term was as it applies to the circumstances of the claim.
So, the first question to determine is whether the reasoning of the Supreme Court, in the 
FCA test case, on radius clauses applies to at the premises clauses. As indicated by the 
Investigator, this is an issue that has already been considered by this service and a copy of 
a relevant final decision has been shared with West Bay. However, they disagree with the 
approach of this service. 
But whilst different policies have different wordings, there is no significant difference 
between the contractual construction of the radius clauses to the at the premises clauses. 
The only difference between these clauses is the geographical area that they cover. 
West Bay says that it is this difference in geographical area that is relevant to the current 
case. West Bay, as with the insurer in the previous decision of this service, has referred to 
paragraph 71 of the Supreme Court judgment. But West Bay has also referred to the 
comments made in paragraphs 72-74. The Supreme Court had not been asked to determine the correct interpretation of at the 
premises clauses. But its comments, at paragraph 71 of its judgment, were made in relation 
to a specific policy. The policy being considered by the court included both in the radius 
and at the premises subclauses, and this was likely to be context the court bore in mind 
when considering the potential meaning of the term. This is not the case with Ps policy.
The Supreme Court was, at this point in its judgment, considering the scope of the insured 
peril, rather than matters of causation. And, whilst the Supreme Court said that the scope of 
the insured peril for an at the premises clause was not the entire outbreak even if there was 
an occurrence on the premises, this was also the conclusion it reached in relation to the 
radius clauses. The Supreme Court found that the insured peril for radius clauses was also 
not the entire outbreak provided it came within the radius. There was no distinction between 
radius and premises clauses drawn by the Supreme Court here. And I consider both types of 
clause provide cover for cases within their geographical limits and not cover for cases 
elsewhere. 
It is to this point that the geographical limit is relevant. But the Supreme Courts reasoning  
that the insured peril is each case of COVID-19 that falls within the geographical limit of the 
clause  applies equally to at the premises clauses as it does to radius clauses.
Additionally, the Supreme Court did not make any distinction between radius clauses and 
premises clauses when these were combined in the same policy. A single case  even at the 
premises  was considered sufficient for the cover to respond and to cover the losses 
sustained by the insured party as a result of that occurrence. The Supreme Court confirmed 
that a single case can be enough for causation to be established under a radius clause, and 
there would be cover under a clause containing both a premises and radius subclauses if the 
only case of COVID-19, within the geographical limits of the clause, was at the premises. 
As has been said, the only significant difference in the construction of the at the premises 
clauses with the radius clauses is the geographical area they specify. This can be undefined, 
the whole country, a 25-mile radius, a 250-metre radius, or the policyholders premises. A 
clause that sets out a smaller area only acts to limit the possibility of a case occurring, and 
so limit the chances of a claim being made. This is a reasonable and understandable 
commercial intent by an underwriter.
I should also point out here that the premises of some policyholders will be greater than a 
250-metre radius. And it would be illogical to consider that a policy requiring a case of 
COVID-19 within a radius smaller than a policyholders premises would provide cover for the 
consequences of the March Regulations, but that this would not be the case if the policy 
specified a larger area  that of the entire premises.
Paragraphs 72-74 merely confirm that the cover provided relates to the cases of disease 
within the relevant radius; not that cover is for an interruption that relates only to cases within 
that radius, but that cases outside of the radius do not form part of the insured peril. The fact 
these paragraphs refer to a radius of 25-miles and comments that the issues discussed are 
important in terms of causation is not, in my view, saying that the particular radius of 
25-miles is significant. It is only significant in the consideration of the clause the court was 
considering because that clause had a relevant geographical limit of 25-miles. 
I am not persuaded that, had the policy being considered by the court at that time referred 
only to a radius of 5-miles, 1-mile, 250 metres, or been limited to the extent of the premises, 
a different conclusion would have been reached. The key issue the court was referring to 
here in terms of causation was, to my mind, the point that it is not just the impact of cases of 
disease within the relevant radius, whatever that may be, that are relevant to causation. The 
size of that radius was not, in my view, a key consideration here. West Bay has placed particular emphasis on paragraph 73 of the Supreme Court judgment, 
specifically that which reads:
we think the court below was right to attach significance in interpreting the policy 
wording to the potential for a notifiable disease to affect a wide area and for an 
occurrence of such a disease within 25 miles of the insured premises to form part of 
a wider outbreak. But again, the significance of those matters, in our view, is in 
relation to questions of causation.
But I dont this means the particular radius that appears in the policy being discussed by the 
court at this point is significant. More significant to my mind is the type of diseases being 
covered and the fact that these will often have an impact both within and without the radius 
relevant to any policy whether that be 25-miles, 250-metres or the limits of the insureds 
premises. I will return to this point below. 
Ultimately, the court found that the approach that applied to the interpretation of the insured 
peril was the same for both radius clauses and at the premises clauses. And that this was 
that clause only covers the cases of COVID-19 which happen within that radius. The cover is 
for the cases of disease within the radius (or at the premises, depending on the wording of 
the policy), not for the disease itself nor for the consequences of diseases outside the 
radius/premises.
The impact on the cover of requiring the disease to manifest on the premises is the same as 
is provided by a policy limiting the relevant radius to one mile, rather than 25 miles. It does 
not change the form of cover provided, it merely lowers the chance of the policy term being 
activated. There is less chance of manifestation at the premises than within one mile of the 
premises, and there is less chance of a manifestation within one mile of the premises than 
within 25 miles. Each individual manifestation, regardless of where it manifested, was an 
equal cause of the restrictions being imposed. But for the impact of that manifestation to be 
covered, the manifestation must be within the geographical limit set by the policy.
Taken at face value, radius clauses offer the same type of cover as at the premises clauses 
 the only difference being a smaller geographical area where the manifestation needs to 
take place before resulting business interruption is covered. 
As mentioned above, I consider the type of disease covered by the policy is also a relevant 
consideration. Ps policy, as with many similar policies  both those with radius clauses and 
at the premises clauses - provides cover for notifiable human diseases. Effectively, this is 
any of the diseases on the list of notifiable disease in Schedule 1 of The Health Protection 
(Notification) Regulations 2010, including any new disease added to this list. COVID-19 was 
added to the list in early March 2020, which is why Ps policy provides any cover at all in the 
circumstances. 
Many of the diseases are unlikely to have originated at the premises, so a manifestation 
there is likely to be part of a larger outbreak. If West Bay had wanted to restrict cover in Ps 
policy to disease originating at the premises, it could have done so. But it did not.
The same risk of a widespread and unpredictable outbreak of disease applies to both radius 
clauses and at the premises clauses. If these wide-spreading diseases are on the 
policyholders premises, they are also likely to be found outside of these premises. So, 
whether or not the disease is on the premises, it seems that the actions of the relevant 
authority will in fact largely be the same.
It is likely restrictions would be introduced covering a broad geographical area in relation to many of the diseases covered by Ps policy. And this would have been something that both 
West Bay and P might reasonably have been aware of at the time the insurance contract 
was entered. I note the Supreme Courts comments at paragraph 194 of its judgment in 
respect of this point:
we consider that the matters of background knowledge to which the court below 
attached weight in interpreting the policy wordings are important. The parties to the 
insurance contracts may be presumed to have known that some infectious diseases - 
including, potentially, a new disease (like SARS) - can spread rapidly, widely and 
unpredictably. It is obvious that an outbreak of an infectious disease may not be 
confined to a specific locality or to a circular area delineated by a radius of 25 miles 
around a policyholders premises. Hence no reasonable person would suppose that, 
if an outbreak of an infectious disease occurred which included cases within such a 
radius and was sufficiently serious to interrupt the policyholders business, all the 
cases of disease would necessarily occur within the radius. It is highly likely that such 
an outbreak would comprise cases both inside and outside the radius and that 
measures taken by a public authority which affected the business would be taken in 
response to the outbreak as a whole and not just to those cases of disease which 
happened to fall within the circumference of the circle described by the radius 
provision.
I consider this reasoning also applies in relation to a policy which provides cover only where 
there is a manifestation of such a disease at the premises of the insured. Whilst some of the 
notifiable diseases covered by the policy would in some cases be limited to a very localised 
outbreak  potentially contained to the premises  many of the diseases covered by the 
policy would inherently be those that would be found beyond the premises if they ever 
manifested at the premises. As with radius clauses, it would be contrary to the commercial 
purpose of the policies for cases of disease manifesting outside the premises to deprive the 
policyholder of cover for cases at the premises.
I consider it likely that if there were manifestations of many of the diseases covered by Ps 
policy, the actions taken would likely have been similar. The actions taken by other 
governments in relation to outbreaks of SARS and Ebola which led to broad geographical 
areas or multiple types of business having restrictions imposed on them would provide 
examples of this. It seems that the more likely the disease is to be wide-spreading, the more 
wide-spread the restrictions will be that are imposed to control that disease.
By including cover for a number of diseases where the likely actions to be taken would be 
those that would impact more than a single premises, I considered West Bay has seemingly 
agreed to provide cover where actions are taken (in relevant situations) that impact more 
than just the insureds premises.
Additionally, Ps policy has a potential £1 million limit, although P itself is only insured up to 
around £600,000, and 24-month indemnity period for its at the premises cover. I consider 
this undermines the suggestion that the clause is only intended to provide short-term cover 
for an incident which is only on the premises and not elsewhere. It is highly unlikely, in my 
opinion, that such a limited event would lead to such a lengthy and expensive claim.The Supreme Court found that each and every occurrence of COVID-19 was an 
approximately equal and proximate cause of the Governments decision-making process. 
The Supreme Court set out some general principles or standards to be applied when 
considering the proximate cause of loss. These included determining whether a peril that is 
covered by the policy had any causal involvement and, if so, whether a peril that was 
excluded from the cover provided by the policy had any such involvement. And then 
determining whether the occurrence of one of these made the loss inevitable in the ordinary 
course of events.
The court went onto say that whilst the Governments decisions to introduce the restrictions 
in March 2020 could not reasonably be attributed to any individual occurrence of COVID-19, 
this decision was taken in response to all the cases in the country as a whole. And the 
Supreme Court agreed with the High Court here that, all the cases were equal causes of the 
imposition of national measures. The Supreme Court found that here was no reason why 
one insured event, acting in combination within a number of uninsured events, should not be 
regarded as a proximate cause of loss even if that insured event was not necessary or 
sufficient to bring about the loss on its own. And that; Whether that causal connection is 
sufficient to trigger the insurers obligation to indemnify the policyholder depends on what 
has been agreed between them.
As such, a key issue was what risks West Bay agreed to cover. This is a question of 
contractual interpretation of Ps policy, answered by applying the intended effect of the policy 
to the circumstances of Ps claim.
In making its findings in the test case, the Supreme Court relied on the presumption that an 
infectious and contagious disease  like many of those West Bay chose to cover in Ps 
policy  can spread rapidly, widely and unpredictably, so that an outbreak which is 
sufficiently serious to lead to a policyholder suffering an interruption to their business was 
highly likely to include cases inside and outside the radius relevant to the policy. The court 
found it would not be feasible, and would be contrary to the commercial intent of the policy, 
for cases outside of the radius to deprive the policyholder of cover in relation to cases within 
the radius. I note the comments of paragraph 206 of the Supreme Court judgment which 
support this.
Radius clauses did not limit cover to situations where the interruption of the business was 
caused only by cases of disease manifesting within the area, as distinct from other cases 
outside the area. And, in such circumstances, other concurrent effects on an insured 
business of the underlying cause of the business interruption, i.e. the pandemic generally, do 
not reduce the indemnity under the relevant clause.
I see no persuasive reason why the considerations that the Supreme Court applied generally 
to radius clauses do not equally apply to at the premises clauses. And feel the same applies 
here to Ps complaint. As the Supreme Court said, all that is necessary for a radius clause 
which also requires the closure to be as a result of, for example, government action, is for 
the closure or restrictions to be in response to cases of COVID-19 which included at least 
one case existing within the geographical area set out in the relevant clause. In Ps case, 
this geographical area is its premises and West Bay agree there was at least one 
manifestation of COVID-19 within this area. And I consider the Governments actions and 
advice were in response to cases of COVID-19, which included the case(s) that manifested 
at Ps premises.
It might be that the case(s) of COVID-19 at Ps premises would not have been reported to 
the Government at the time it made its decision, though it does seem that at least one of Ps 
employees had contacted NHS 111 to report his symptoms. But I do not consider this point 
to be crucial in terms of the discussion of causation. It is clear that as well as the reported cases that the Government was specifically aware of, the decision it took was also made due 
to the estimated number of unreported cases. 
It was the number of these unreported cases, as well as the reported ones, that would have 
led to the Government making its decision. Each one of these reported and unreported 
cases will have arguably been a proximate cause of the Governments decision-making 
process. But it would not be possible for an estimated manifestation to lead to an insurance 
claim where an actual manifestation was required by the policy.
I note West Bays argument that by the time the Government made its initial announcement 
on 20 March 2020, there may no longer have been a manifestation at Ps premises. Whilst I 
appreciate the points made, it is also clear that in thinking about both the reported and 
unreported cases the Government was making its decision based on historic data. The 
models being considered were predictions of future hospitalisations taking into account, 
amongst other things, the reproduction ratio of the infection (the R-number), which is 
affected by numerous factors that govern pathogen transmission and is, as I understand it, 
therefore usually estimated using different complex mathematical models. And the data 
referenced in the Governments briefings was based on the events that took place over the 
preceding weeks.
By the time the decision to introduce the March Regulations was taken, a number of 
individuals included in the figures of who had sustained COVID-19 may already have 
recovered. But I consider these cases would still be those that, together with the other cases 
around that time, were the concurrent causes of the Governments decision. The 
Government and its advisors were not looking at individual cases in isolation, they were 
considering the accumulation of these which would have formed the framework of the rate of 
infection and allowed for a prediction as to the future R-number and resultant 
hospitalisations.
I note that the courts indicated that a person passing through an area, involving no contact 
with anyone and therefore no risk of transmitting the disease, might not be enough to trigger 
the insured peril under a radius clause. However, I consider this is entirely different from 
someone who remained in the area for some time and had numerous interactions with 
various people. Whilst that person may then have left the area in question, their presence 
created a risk of the disease having been transmitted. And it is this risk, and the potential of 
this leading to hospitalisation and the overwhelming of the NHS, that led to the 
Governments decisions at this time.
Although each case of disease was individual, the effects of the disease  the Governments 
measures  were indivisible. And as the Supreme Court said at paragraph 212 of its 
judgment: 
each of the individual cases of illness resulting from COVID-19 which had 
occurred by the date of any Government action was a separate and equally effective 
cause of that action
I appreciate that part of the cause of Ps continued closure in the present case is the same 
as its initial closure (i.e. the manifestation of COVID-19 at the premises). But, the term in the 
policy is a composite one. The term requires both the manifestation and the action of the 
relevant authority. It is the action of this authority that is also an integral element of the 
continued closure and this action had not taken place at the time of the initial closure. Prior 
to the Prime Ministers announcement, there were no specific restrictions that had been 
placed on the premises that caused any interruption to its business. The same can be said of West Bays reference to another complaint considered by this 
service. I also note that this complaint was resolved by the opinion of an Investigator and so 
no Ombudsmans decision was reached and published. Additionally, it must be stressed that 
whilst this service does try to apply its approaches consistently, each case is determined on 
its own individual merits. And it is clear the circumstances involved between this previous 
case and Ps are entirely different. Whilst I note West Bays comments that the facts of the 
claim do not change the correct approach to causation, the issue is that in the other 
complaint the manifestation at the insured premises did not seemingly lead to any action by 
a relevant authority. But I have not been asked to determine the outcome of this other 
complaint. My role here is to determine what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Ps complaint. 
So, similarly, whilst I also note the comments made about a hypothetical example of a 
business that initially closed and then reopened prior to any government-restriction, those 
are not the circumstances of Ps claim and I am not required to consider such a hypothetical 
situation in determining Ps complaint. 
Ps policy does require that the actions taken by the Government were based on the advice 
of or with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority. The term 
Medical Officer of Health is not defined within the policy. As such, it needs to be interpreted 
as it would be understood by a reasonable person at the time of entering the contract.
Medical officer of health is largely a historical term. It was used in the Public Health Act 
1961, but it is not in more recent public health legislation. Section 37 of this Act relates to the 
sale of verminous articles and appears to be the only legislative term relating to the medical 
officer of health. The role itself is also historic and no longer exists. I note that when the role 
was in existence, it did have a focus on local authority matters rather than anything national. 
But I consider this to be a reflection of the make-up of healthcare services generally at the 
time medical officers of health were introduced, rather than the current situation which is 
more of a mix between national and localised healthcare.
I consider the current set-up of the healthcare system is also significant when considering 
the potential actions taken in the face of many of the diseases covered by Ps policy. As set 
out above, the responses to many of these diseases would be wide-spread and would 
require more nationally-orientated action. To say that the policy provides cover for a disease 
that would likely only be acted upon by national government, but then to limit cover to the 
actions of a local authority would, to my mind, provide an irrational result.
The clause refers to a term that is dated and it would not be reasonable to expect a 
customer taking out an insurance policy of this nature to understand the historical positioning 
of a redundant role, and then apply that to how the clause in question should be interpreted 
in relation to cover for a wide-spreading disease. An alternative question is whether a 
reasonable customer would consider that a clause referring to the advice of the Medical 
Officer of Health would include the advice of the Chief Medical Officer for England. I consider 
that this is how a reasonable person would have interpreted this clause at the time the policy 
was taken out.
As such, taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I consider that Ps policy 
should cover it for the losses it sustained when it was interrupted by the Prime Ministers 
announcement and the subsequent regulations made on 21 March and 26 March 2020. This 
means I consider West Bay is liable for the full extent of the period P was closed by the 
Governments restrictions, subject to the relevant policy limits. My understanding is that P 
would not have been able to reopen prior to 4 July 2020. But if I am wrong on this date, P 
should be indemnified for the period it was subject to the Governments requirement that it 
remain closed.I am satisfied that Ps policy with West Bay is a contract with its own terms. I have 
considered how these terms would likely have been interpreted by a reasonable person at 
the point the contract was entered into, bearing in mind that it is a policy sold to SMEs.
I dont think a reasonable person would interpret a clause that provides up to a maximum of 
£1 million and 24 months of cover in relation to various diseases, including those most likely 
to be wide-spread and hence requiring far-reaching measures to tackle them, to be limited to 
consequences directed solely at the insureds premises.
I think it is reasonable to read Ps at the premises cause, in the context of the rest of the 
policy and the circumstances of the claim, as providing cover for losses resulting from the 
manifestation(s) of COVID-19 at its premises. Although I cant be sure, I also this this was 
more likely than not that this is how a court would interpret this term.
Given the findings of the Supreme Court, I also think the manifestation(s) at Ps premises 
was an equally effective concurrent cause of the decision to introduce the March 
Regulations, as the manifestations beyond the limits of Ps premises. And the cases off the 
premises are not an excluded cause.
Referring back to the elements of the insured peril I set out earlier in my decision, in their 
correct causal sequence, and taking the points above into account, I am satisfied that:
An illness caused by COVID-19 was manifested by a person at Ps premises.
This manifestation was a proximate and concurrent cause of the Governments 
decision to introduce the March Regulations.
These March Regulations were introduced on the advice or with the approval of a 
person or persons who would be considered the Medical Officer of Health for the 
Public Authority.
These Regulations placed restrictions on Ps premises. And,
These restrictions caused an interruption or interference with Ps business that likely 
caused a loss.
As the elements of Ps disease clause have been met in the circumstances, I consider 
West Bays decision to decline Ps claim for the losses sustained as a result of the 
Governments restrictions was not made correctly. And I so dont consider West Bay dealt 
with Ps complaint fairly or reasonably.
Putting things right
I consider Ps complaint should be upheld. 
In order to put things right, West Bay Insurance Plc should:
Reconsider Ps claim on the basis that there was an occurrence on its premises that 
caused an interruption to its business from 20 March 2020 to 4 July 2020.
If, taking into account the remaining terms of the policy, any settlement is due to P 
West Bay should pay this. Any excess that is payable should deducted from the total 
claim amount, before any policy limit is applied.
West Bay should pay P interest on this settlement.The interest payable on the settlement should be based on P having been deprived of four 
monthly interim payments that should have been made during the course of the claim. 
The first of these payments should have been paid on 20 May 2020 and should have 
covered Ps indemnified losses for the period 20 March 2020 to 19 April 2020 inclusive. 
Subsequent monthly payments should have been based on losses for the periods; 
20 April 2020 to 19 May 2020, 20 May 2020 to 19 June 2020, and 20 June 2020 to 
4 July 2020. These payments should have been made on 20 June 2020, 20 July 2020, and 
4 August 2020 respectively.
West Bay should pay P interest on the amount of each of these interim payments, for the 
period from the date of each of these interim payments should have been made to the date 
of settlement. This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple per annum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc should put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman