DRN-2313640
The complaint
Mrs H complains about a joint loan she has with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 1 October 2020. I gave both parties 
until 31 October 2020 to respond to my provisional decision with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider. I have now had a response from both parties. 
I have copied my provisional decision below:
Mrs H took out a joint loan with Mr H for the sum of £15,000. The monthly repayment
amounts are £307.56.
In May 2019, Mr H was made bankrupt. At this point, Mrs H spoke to RBS to check that she
wouldnt be affected by this if she continued to keep up with the monthly repayments. RBS
confirmed that she wouldnt be affected as long as she continued to repay the loan.
Later, in December 2019, RBS said that it was going to default the loan if Mrs H didnt repay
the full outstanding amount. It says that it is its policy to default a loan where the joint
account holder has been made bankrupt. And it said that the information she was given
previously about being able to continue with the loan was incorrect. By way of an apology for
the misinformation it offered Mrs H £80.
Mrs H didnt think this was fair. She has continued to repay the loan  she hasnt missed or
been late with any repayments. Mrs H says she was upset to find that RBS were going to
default the loan which would have a negative impact on her credit file. Mrs H has explained
that if RBS default the loan it will leave her in a very difficult position. She is trying to get a
mortgage in her own name for a home for herself and her children as she and Mr H are no
longer together. She knows that if RBS default the loan then it will be very difficult for her to
get any further credit.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs H and he decided to uphold the complaint. The
investigator has issued his opinion on this case on three separate occasions  RBS has
disagreed with all of these. Our investigators final opinion was that he agreed it could be
argued that the terms and conditions of the loan agreement meant that if a loan account
holder became insolvent, then RBS could default the loan. But our investigator didnt think
that it was fair for RBS to rely on this in the circumstances of this complaint. Our investigator
thought that RBS shouldnt take steps to default the loan while Mrs H continued to keep up
with the repayments. And he also thought that RBS should pay Mrs H an additional £500 for
the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
RBS didnt agree with this. It made the following main points:
It hasnt acted outside of the terms and condition of the loan  or guidance from the
ICO.
By entering into insolvency, the loan agreement has been broken and therefore RBS
say it is exercising its right to terminate the agreement in line with the terms and
conditions. Therefore, the debt needs to be repaid in full to avoid a default.
It is irresponsible and unfair to Mrs H, to allow a joint loan to automatically transfer to
a sole party when the rate and repayment for that loan was based on two incomes
and two outgoings. It accepts that refinancing may lead to a higher rate of interest or
payment, but those would be tailored to Mrs Hs financial situation where it knows
what she can afford.
This service cant tell it not to adhere to the terms and conditions of an agreement.
There appears to be no valid reason why a different approach to its normal process
would be appropriate on this occasion.
Because RBS didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I have considered all the available arguments and evidence when coming to my decision on
this complaint. Having done so, I am intending to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Much of the facts of this case arent in dispute. So, its now for me to decide what should
happen next with this joint loan and if Mrs H is due any compensation for what has
happened.
RBS says this service cant tell it not to adhere to its terms and conditions, where there is no
reason for it to not follow its normal approach. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I
disagree with RBS that there isnt a valid reason to act differently to its normal approach. I
can ask it not to follow its normal approach where I think rigidly applying the terms and
conditions are unfair for a particular consumer. Or where other relevant laws, regulations or
guidance supersedes its terms and conditions.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of this loan account. They state:
(iii) you die or become insolvent or steps are taken by you or against you for your bankruptcy
or any proposal is made..
..Then subject to service of any default notices and/or obtaining any court order required
by law we shall be entitled after the expiry of proper notice to demand immediate payment of
the loan plus interest and Charges on Default.
It isnt unusual for an agreement to say something along these lines. As this is a joint loan
agreement, its normal that a default event would be recorded against both individuals on the
agreement because of their financial association. And this is the reason why one would need
to think carefully before entering into such joint arrangement, because the actions of one
party could have an adverse effect on the other. So this term alone isnt inherently unfair.
However, in this case, Mrs H has continued to make repayments to the loan account each
month. Ive seen a copy of the loan account statement, which shows that every single
payment has been made and on time  both before and after Mr H became insolvent.
Because Mrs H has kept up with the loan repayments, it would seem RBS is putting her at
an unfair disadvantage if it follows through with its intention to default the loan if it doesnt
receive a full repayment of the outstanding balance.
The ICO (Information Commissioners Office) guidance covers this exact scenario, and says:Where there is joint liability and only one party is the subject of an insolvency order, then
the account should not automatically be marked in default if it is being maintained by the
other party. (p7 - ICO Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at
Credit Reference Agencies - Jan 2014).
RBS say that it doesnt intend to automatically default the loan. It says its giving Mrs H the
option to repay the full outstanding balance before it takes steps to default. But I dont think
RBSs interpretation of automatically is fair here.
The impact of a default on an individuals credit file can be serious. The consequences of
this can lead to a person not being able to get any credit at all for a long period of time, and
any credit they do get is likely to be very expensive. To me, negatively impacting an
individual, at this severity, who continues to keep up with the monthly repayments seems
very unfair.
The guidance itself doesnt necessarily prevent RBS from recording the default against Mrs
H, and this seems to be what RBS has relied on where it has told us it doesnt intend to
automatically default the loan. But I should draw RBSs attention to the second bit of the
guidance where it says, if it is being maintained by the other party. This suggests that
checking the loan is being maintained should be a key factor in deciding whether it would be
appropriate to record a default against the other party, in this case Mrs H. And so for RBS to
default the loan even after considering that it is being maintained by the other party does
seem unfair on Mrs H.
So, for as long as Mrs H continues to make the monthly loan repayment on time, and the
account doesnt fall into arrears, then RBS shouldnt default the loan, simply because the
other party, Mr H is now insolvent. And so, in the circumstances of this complaint, RBSs
intentions to exercise its right to terminate the agreement in line with its terms and
conditions, in my opinion, goes against the ICOs guidance.
RBS say that it would be unfair of it to transfer the loan to Mrs Hs sole name, when the
terms of the loan were agreed based on two incomes and two outgoings. And it has
suggested that she reapply for a new loan so she can refinance this existing one. It has also
accepted that this would likely lead to an increase in interest rate and higher repayments, but
it needs to be satisfied that she can afford the loan on her own.
When Mr and Mrs H took out the loan they agreed to be jointly and severally liable to repay
the debt in full. So if one party couldnt or stopped paying, the other would be liable to keep
up with the monthly minimum repayment  as it what is already happening in the
circumstances of this loan. RBSs argument about transferring the loan to Mrs Hs sole name
doesnt change the current position.
There is now, however, the issue of the affordability of the loan. Because RBS are now
aware of Mrs Hs situation, it does have a responsibility to check she can afford to repay the
loan based on her sole income and expenditure. RBS need to check this, but shouldnt treat
this as a new application, and it shouldnt be used as a reason to increase the cost, which
would in turn put additional strain on Mrs Hs finances. I dont see that theres any reason to
alter the current arrangements  and if RBS find that this loan would put a strain on her
finances, then it needs to treat her positively and sympathetically.
RBS has also suggested Mrs H could consider refinancing the loan with a different lender.
But again, I dont think that this is fair. She has continued to keep up with the repayments, so
I dont think it would be fair to end the current agreement.
For the reasons set out above, I currently think RBS should continue to allow Mrs H to repaythis loan on the same terms as she is currently. If Mrs H starts to miss payments or the loan
goes into arrears, then RBS should follow the ICOs guidelines when considering the default
process.
Mrs H has explained to this service how RBSs decision has impacted her. After she was
told she could continue the loan, out of the blue, in December 2019 she was given a short
period of time to settle the outstanding balance  otherwise the loan would be defaulted, and
her credit file seriously impacted. At this point in time, Mrs H was applying for a new
mortgage so she could get a home for herself and her children while she separates from her
ex-partner, Mr H. While I appreciate this must have been a stressful time regardless, I think
the possibility of the loan defaulting and then likely not being able to get credit would have
been greatly concerning for her. For this reason, I currently think RBS should pay Mrs H
£500 on top of the £80 it has already offered her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs R and RBS responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have any further 
comments to add. Because of this, I see no reason to change the findings from my 
provisional decision and so I will be upholding this complaint for the same reasons. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs H, I order RBS to:
Consolidate the loan into Mrs Hs sole name  and allow her to repay the remaining
outstanding balance on the loan on the same terms as the current loan.
Fairly assess Mrs Hs ability to be able to repay the loan. Based on her sole
incomings and outgoings. If the outcome of this is that loan is unaffordable to Mrs H,
the RBS need to treat Mrs H positively and sympathetically.
Pay Mrs H £500 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should now do what Ive said above to put 
things right for Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman