DRN-1948737
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited said it would reinstate his credit card account if he 
brought the account back in order, but didn't do so.
What happened
Mr K says MBNA told him if he brought his credit card account back in order it would remove 
account restrictions and allow him to continue to use it. He says he made payments 
to MBNA but it later told him that, due to a change in policy, it could no longer allow the 
account use to be reinstated. Mr K says that is unfair and MBNA accepted payments 
knowing it was going back on what had been agreed.
MBNA says it had a discussion with Mr K and told him it would review the decision to restrict 
account access when the account was returned to order. It says it then made a business 
decision to change its policy on these sorts of situations, and says it will not reinstate Mr K's 
account facilities. It also says it has acted in line with account terms and conditions and that 
the account is in arrears. MBNA says Mr K is able to make a new application for an account.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought MBNA had told Mr K he could apply for the account restrictions to be removed and 
that it was up to MBNA to decide what its policy on such matters was. The investigator didn't 
uphold that part of the complaint. The investigator thought Mr K had made clear that the 
removal of the restrictions was important and that MBNA in those circumstances ought to 
have made its position clear to Mr K, and told him it was not prepared to remove those 
restrictions.
The investigator recommended MBNA pay Mr K £100 compensation for that mistake. 
MBNA doesn't agree with that view and says there was no guarantee the 
account restrictions would be removed and Mr K's account was not brought back in order. It 
says it tried to speak to Mr K, but he wouldn't answer security questions so that it could 
discuss his account with him.
My provisional view
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said in summary that I had come to the 
provisional view that MBNA has dealt fairly with this complaint.
I looked at the account terms and conditions which I thought Mr K would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. I said I was satisfied those account terms and conditions 
allowed MBNA to restrict account access and in certain circumstances to close an account. 
There was no doubt here that Mr K was unable to make required payments. So I didn't 
think MBNA acted unfairly or made a mistake by applying the account restrictions, and I 
thought it acted in line with those agreed terms and conditions.I was satisfied that having looked at MBNA's records that it agreed to review the account 
restrictions when the account was brought back in order. I made clear that I didn't think Mr K 
was given a guarantee those restrictions would be removed. I also thought 
MBNA was entitled to monitor and review an account, and that it was entitled at any stage to 
make commercial decisions about its customers accounts. The investigator explained that 
it's not our role to tell a business what its policies should be or decide if they are fair. So I 
didn't think MBNA misled Mr K or gave him incorrect information about the review and was 
entitled to conclude that it didn't wish to allow full use of the account.
I appreciated Mr K made payments that were above the required minimum amount. But I 
thought that  was his choice and could see in any event those payments were only made for 
a few months before they stopped. I thought that showed on balance that MBNA was entitled 
to conclude the restrictions should remain and I didn't think by making a few monthly 
required payments meant the account was back in order in any event.
I appreciated the investigator's point that MBNA ought to have told Mr K that it had no 
intention of removing the restrictions and that was a lack of service. I looked at MBNA's 
records and I thought the problem was caused by Mr K refusing to answer security questions 
that would have allowed MBNA staff to speak to Mr K about his account. I said that I would 
have also expected Mr K to have made contact with MBNA and clarified the position with 
it when he started to make payments. So I didn't think MBNA made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by not telling Mr K that it would not remove the restrictions. And I also thought Mr K 
owed MBNA money that he was obliged to pay in any event. I didn't think MBNA could have 
known that Mr K was making the required payments mainly because he wanted the 
restrictions removed.
Overall my provisional view was that MBNA did not give Mr K any guarantees and was not 
obliged or able to tell him what its position was for the reasons I have explained.
MBNA has said it doesn't wish to add anything to my provisional decision and Mr K has 
replied accepting it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view I reached in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman