DRN-2214765
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy JD Williams & Company Limited (JD Williams) has reported adverse 
information to credit reference agencies in relation to an account in his name that he didnt 
open.
What happened
In March 2019 an account was opened with JD Williams in Mr Ns name. items were 
subsequently purchased and sent to the address given in the application when the account 
was opened.
Mr N has said he didnt open the account. The address given is his mothers address where 
he previously lived. Hes explained his family were victims of domestic abuse and his mother 
had taken out a non-molestation order against the perpetrator shortly before the account 
was opened. Mr N believed the perpetrator opened the account in an attempt to continue 
harassing his mother and sister, who still live at the address.
When Mr N discovered the account had been opened he contacted JD Williams to let it know 
it had been opened fraudulently. He requested a courier come to collect the goods in April 
2019 from his work address but has said they didnt turn up.
JD Williams fraud department investigated the matter and responded to Mr N in May 2019. 
It felt because goods were sent to the address given in the application to open the account it 
didnt reflect usual patterns of fraud. It concluded the account was likely opened by Mr N. It 
advised it would close the account once the goods were returned or the balance was fully 
repaid.
In July 2019, Mr N discovered his credit file had been adversely affected due to non payment 
of the balance due on the account. He complained to JD Williams about this and was told by 
an advisor the account would be closed and the adverse information would be removed from 
his credit file.
In August 2019 Mr N again contacted JD Williams after this hadnt been done. He 
complained about the account and the affect the situation had been having on him. He told 
JD Williams he didnt have the return labels which allowed him to return the goods as theyd 
been sent to an address he didnt live at and that the courier hadnt arrived to collect the 
goods when hed tried to arrange this. JD Williams felt its final response had addressed the 
complaint in May so had no further comment. It arranged a further collection of the goods 
from Mr Ns work address but this again wasnt successful.
In October 2019 Mr N repaid the balance in full in order to prevent further debt recovery 
action. Mr N brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. Overall they felt 
it was likely the account wasnt opened by Mr N so any adverse information should be 
removed from his credit file. 
JD Williams accepted the investigators view but Mr N didnt. He felt JD Williams should 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. As he didnt accept the 
investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Did Mr N open the account?
Although I understand why it might not be typical for a fraudster to open an account and 
have goods delivered to the address provided on the application, I think Mr N has provided a 
plausible and persuasive explanation as to why someone mightve done that in this case. 
The person he suspects of doing this seems to have a motive, and would likely have had 
access to Mr Ns personal details which were provided on the application.
And, having reviewed JD Williams application process I cant see it did carry out any checks 
in this case to verify the person completing the application was the person named on the 
application. So it seems it couldve been completed by anyone who had access to the 
personal information the application asked for.
Overall I think its more likely than not Mr N didnt open the account and JD Williams should 
arrange for all the information relating to the account to be removed from his credit file. I also 
think it should refund any charges or interest incurred. 
Should Mr N be liable for the cost of the goods?
While the account was open goods equalling around £100 were purchased. Mr N appears to 
have received these and says he has made arrangements to return them, but the couriers 
that were supposed to collect them havent turned up.
Having reviewed JD Williams records and the correspondence provided by Mr N it appears 
collection of the goods has been arranged on two occasions in April and August 2019. It 
appears the issue is that the courier will arrive to collect the goods between 8am and 8pm 
within 48 hours of the collection being requested. So the timing isnt specific and could 
happen at any point during this period.
Mr N asked for the goods to be collected from his work place which, from what I gather, is an 
industrial estate. JD Williams has suggested that the courier may have had difficulty 
accessing Mr Ns place of work and it appears Mr N hadnt initially realised he needed to 
wait until 8pm to return the goods. There also seems to be an occasion where return labels 
were sent to Mr N, but because the only address provided was the address linked to the 
account (which he gave in order to pass security questions) they werent sent to his current 
address.
By October 2019 the goods still hadnt been returned and Mr N repaid the balance to avoid 
further debt collection activity.  It doesnt seem that he has made any further attempts to 
return the goods.I understand in this case Mr N was the victim of identity theft. And I think its clear from his 
interactions with JD Williams he felt upset and inconvenienced by having to arrange the 
return of the goods, especially when this wasnt as straightforward as hed hoped. 
But overall I think JD Williams did provide him with reasonable options in returning the 
goods. And although its not clear why the second collection was unsuccessful I can see 
from JD Williams records a collection was requested. So I havent seen anything to suggest 
it was at fault or that the goods couldnt have been returned. 
Because he still has the goods, I think its fair Mr N should be liable for the cost of them. But, 
as he didnt enter into the agreement to purchase them, I dont think he should be liable for 
any charges or interest incurred as a result of them being purchased and sent to him. And, 
given the circumstances, should Mr N wish to return the goods promptly to JD Williams now, 
in their original condition, it should refund him in full.
Should JD Williams compensate Mr N for the distress and inconvenience caused?
Mr N has said JD Williams should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused. But having considered what hes said very carefully, I havent concluded it 
should make an award in this case.
I want to begin by explaining how sorry I am to hear of the circumstances Mr N has 
described. I cant imagine how difficult it mustve been for him and have no doubt it has 
impacted him significantly. But my role is to consider what part, if any, JD Williams had in 
this.
Ive seen JD Williams does carry out checks to verify what information is provided when an 
application is made. And whilst it doesnt verify who makes the application, the information 
needed in order to open an account is information it reasonably expects will only be known 
by the individual opening an account. Unfortunately, in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, it was also information known by a third party who was able to pass the checks 
JD Williams had in place.
So, whilst I can see the impact the opening of the account has had on Mr N, I think this 
happened because the third party took the action they did, rather than because JD Williams 
failed to follow its usual account opening processes and procedures. 
Mr N has said he told JD Williams from the outset who he thought had fraudulently opened 
the account and why he believed this to be the case. So he feels it couldve accepted the 
account had been opened fraudulently sooner than it did. But according to its records Mr N 
hasnt ever mentioned who he suspected of opening the account or why. Mr N also hasnt 
mentioned this in any of the subsequent correspondence between him and JD Williams hes 
provided or in any of the call recordings Ive listened to. 
So on balance I dont think JD Williams was made aware there was someone who likely 
opened the account fraudulently until the complaint was brought to our service. Because of 
this, I dont think it acted unreasonably in treating Mr N as the true owner of the account by 
pursuing him for the outstanding balance and reporting information relating to the account on 
his credit file. 
I also think that, based on what Ive seen, Mr N couldve mitigated his circumstances by 
making better efforts to return the goods.  JD Williams says this wouldve reduced the 
balance to zero and allowed him to close the account sooner. And I think this wouldve 
prevented the additional stress he was caused by being pursued for the debt and the 
adverse information on his credit file being recorded.For these reasons, I dont think JD Williams needs to make a payment to Mr N to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
Mr N has mentioned the non-molestation order and feels JD Williams have been complicit in 
allowing this order to be breached, but this isnt something our service can comment on. If 
the person named in the order feels it has been breached and want to take further action 
then they might want to consider seeking legal advice about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order JD Williams & Company Limited to:
Arrange for all information relating to the account to be removed from Mr Ns credit 
file.  
Refund to Mr N any charges or interest he has paid beyond the original purchase 
price of the goods plus 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Should Mr N promptly return the goods in their original condition following the 
decision, he should receive a refund of the purchase price.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman