DRN-2566887
The complaint
Mr S complains that his loan repayments werent set up by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest)
What happened
Mr S took out a personal loan with NatWest in October 2019. The direct debit for repayments 
wasnt set up  so no repayments were made.
Mr S complained in February 2020. He said the loan payments werent being taken. He 
couldnt make up the missed payments then.  He was worried that his credit score would be 
affected. He didnt get a call back from NatWest as theyd promised. 
NatWest replied in March 2020. They had made an error  the loan repayments hadnt been 
set up. They couldnt work out why. To sort things out, they needed to set up the loan again 
 this would need a new loan agreement to be signed by Mr S. They sent one out to him. 
They said there would be no missed payment charges or returned direct debit fees. Any 
adverse data at credit reference agencies would be removed  but this could take up to 90 
days. They said theyd diarise to check progress to ensure all was sorted out. They 
apologised that Mr S didnt get a call back. They paid £100 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service in July 2020. Things still hadnt been sorted out. 
The repayments werent being made  and he hadnt received anything from NatWest. He 
was concerned about the impact on his credit file. Our investigator looked at what had 
happened. In September 2020 she said that Mr S still hadnt received a new loan agreement 
and the new loan hadnt been set up. Interest was being applied. She said that the new loan 
should be set up on the same terms and conditions as in October 2019. Any adverse entries 
on Mr Ss credit file should be removed. There hadnt been sufficient focus by NatWest to 
sort things out for Mr S. She said a further £100 compensation should be paid.
NatWest didnt agree  they said it wasnt their fault that the loan agreement hadnt been 
received by Mr S  or if he hadnt returned it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can see why Mr S is frustrated by whats happened here. In October 2019, he took out a 
loan from NatWest. Due to their error, repayments werent set up. He only noticed this in 
February 2020, when he contacted NatWest. This led to a complaint to them. In their final 
response, they apologised, paid £100 compensation and agreed to set up a new loan for 
him. But this still didnt happen  Mr S says he didnt get the new loan agreement to sign. He 
told us that he didnt hear anything from NatWest. Theyd said theyd remove any adverse 
entries on his credit file  but, he tried to apply for a mortgage in September 2020 and was 
declined because of missed payment entries showing at credit reference agencies. 
I appreciate that NatWest  in their final response in March 2020  apologised and set out to 
put things right. But, unfortunately, this doesnt seem to have happened.
NatWest said theyd put matters right by sending out a new loan agreement and removing 
any adverse entries at the CRAs. They also said: I have applied a reminder for 2 weeks to 
your case to have a member of staff check the progress of this and to make the 
amendments as needed.  I have seen that theres an action logged on Mr Ss file that this 
should have been done  but I have seen nothing which says it was. NatWest have said to 
us that its not their fault if Mr S didnt receive the new loan agreement  but they committed 
to follow things up, and they didnt.  
NatWest said to us that Mr S hadnt told them he hadnt received the loan agreement. But Mr 
S said to us several times that hed not received the agreement form  and we told NatWest 
that. In November 2020, he told us he still hadnt received it. 
I can see that in July 2020 we asked NatWest for a copy of the letter and loan agreement 
that they sent out  unfortunately, we didnt receive this.
I can see from the records that NatWest sent to us in July 2020 - that Mr Ss loan was 
marked as in collections  so it looks like there would have been adverse data advised to 
the CRAs. In July 2020 - we asked NatWest for a copy of the advice sent to credit reference 
agencies  removing any adverse data  unfortunately, we didnt receive this. In September 
2020, Mr S told us that hed been declined for a mortgage because of missed payments 
showing on his credit records  so Im concerned that this action hasnt been completed by 
NatWest.
Mr S has asked that part of his loan is written off, or that he doesnt have to pay the missed 
loan payments. I dont think thats fair as hes had the use of the money. But, I think its 
important to make sure that Mr S is put back in the position he would have been in in 
October 2019 when the errors first occurred  and its still not certain that the replacement 
loan has been set up.
I agree with our investigator that there hasnt been enough focus to get this complaint 
resolved. This has been dragging on for over a year since Mr Ss complaint to NatWest. In 
upholding his complaint, I do want NatWest to ensure that things are put right - urgently - for 
Mr S. So, I agree that Mr S should be awarded a further compensation payment of £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. NatWest must also ensure the replacement loan is 
set up. And any adverse entries on Mr Ss credit file must be removed. It should show the 
new loan from when it was (or is) redrawn. There should be no fees payable for any late 
payments or returned direct debits between October 2019 and to date.
Putting things rightNational Westminster Bank Plc must: 
Pay Mr S compensation of £100. This is in addition to the £100 paid in March 2020.
Remove any adverse entries on Mr Ss credit file
Ensure the replacement loan is set up and drawn
Ensure there are no late payment fees or charges for returned direct debits between 
October 2019 and February 2021. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman