DRN-3116229
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H was on holiday on a UK island in October 2020. She was due to travel back to the 
mainland by ferry and then travel back to her home. However, due to poor weather 
conditions, the return ferry wasnt able to depart the island as planned. So Mrs C had to pay 
for two nights of additional accommodation while she waited for the ferry to depart. Once she 
returned to her home, she made a claim for the accommodation costs she incurred.
URV turned down Mrs Hs claim. It said that travel delay cover only applied on the outward 
journey. And that missed departure cover only covered additional costs a policyholder 
incurred in reaching their trip destination. As Mrs Hs return journey had been delayed, URV 
said her claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mrs H was unhappy with URVs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. He noted that URV had 
relied on the wrong policy terms when it assessed Mrs Hs claim and there was no limitation 
of delay cover to the outward journey only. But he noted that both the delayed departure and 
missed departure sections of the correct policy referred to a policyholders international 
departure point. So he concluded that these sections of the policy were intended to apply to 
international holidays. In this case, Mrs Hs return journey was a domestic one and as such, 
he didnt think it was covered by the policy terms. He felt itd been fair for URV to turn down 
Mrs Hs claim.
Mrs H disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, I think it was fair for URV to turn down 
her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether 
URV treated her fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mrs Hs contract with 
URV. I agree with the investigator that it appears URV assessed Mrs Hs claim using the 
incorrect policy wording. I say that because Mrs Hs policy schedule shows that she took out 
the insurance on 13 July 2020. The policy terms URV seems to have relied on when 
assessing the claim applied until 31 March 2020. The correct wording seems to have been 
issued on 1 July 2020 and so I agree that these are the terms and conditions which URV 
ought to have applied when it looked at the claim. The applicable terms and conditions dont 
include any limitation on travel delay cover on the outward journey only. In some cases, I 
think a delay claim on a policyholders return journey would fall squarely within the scope of 
policy cover. And so Mrs Hs claim shouldnt have been declined on this basis.
However, I dont think URVs error on this point means Mrs Hs claim should succeed. Like 
our investigator, I dont find that the applicable contract terms cover the situation Mrs H 
found herself in. Ill explore this further.
The if you are delayed section of the policy says: If your departure from your international 
departure point was delayed by more than 12 hours after your scheduled departure time 
because of a disruption to your transport providers servicewe will pay you £100 for each 
full 12-hour period that you are delayed up to a maximum of £800. 
The if you missed your departure or onward connection section of the policy says: If 
despite having taken reasonable steps, you did not reach your international departure point 
in time to check-in because of public services you were using or intended to use were 
cancelled or delayed due toadverse weather conditionsWe will pay you up to £1000 
towards the costs that you had to pay for alternative transport and accommodation 
arrangements in order to reach your trip destination.
URV has set out a definition of what it means by international departure point. The policy 
says: any airport, international rail terminal or port from which you leave a country 
having passed through passport control. (Bold is my emphasis.)
So I think the policy terms make it clear that URV will only cover travel delay or missed 
departure claims if a policyholder is delayed at or prevented from reaching an international 
departure point. As such, it seems to me that URV didnt intend for either of these sections to 
apply to domestic-only trips.
In this case, Mrs Hs trip took place wholly within the UK. Her delayed ferry trip was intended 
to take her from a UK-island to the UK mainland. She didnt need to go through passport 
control. And while her home was in another part of the UK, this still didnt represent 
international travel. On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude that 
Mrs Hs additional accommodation costs simply werent covered by the policy terms. And 
having looked closely at the remaining terms and conditions of the contract, I dont think 
there are any other sections which would cover the situation she found herself in. 
So while I sympathise with Mrs Hs position, because I appreciate shes been left out of 
pocket for reasons outside of her control, I find it was fair and reasonable for URV to turn 
down Mrs Hs claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman