DRN-3264343
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned down a claim for the 
theft of his motorbike on his motorcycle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms bike was stolen in the early hours of the morning from a private area at the front of 
his house. He said he woke up to see thieves cutting through the chains locking the bike 
before they got away with it. 
Mr M claimed for the theft but Ageas turned it down. It said that in order for a theft claim to 
be covered his policy required him to keep his bike in a secured building (for example a 
garage) overnight. Mr M said that his bike was usually kept in a garage overnight. But, on 
the night of the theft, he couldnt do that as he was repairing the garage. He added that he 
couldnt contact his brokers to amend the policy as it was outside of their usual working 
hours. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Ageas needed to take any further action. Mr M didnt agree so his complaint's been passed 
to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint and in response to our investigator's assessment of it, Mr Ms 
made a number of detailed points. Hes referred to various articles from the FCAs (the 
Financial Conduct Authority, the organisation which regulates financial businesses including 
insurers) handbook and its website together with a supreme court judgement. I'm grateful for 
the time and effort Mr M's gone to to prepare his submissions. I've considered everything 
hes said and all the articles hes referred to. But, I trust he will not take as a discourtesy that 
I don't intend to address each individual point raised. Instead, in setting out what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint Ive focused on the reasons that are central 
to my decision making. So, if theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Its because Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M said he was aware that, in order to be covered for theft, he needed to keep his bike 
garaged overnight. He said he complied with that requirement on every other night. But, at 
the time of the theft, he was completing some work on his garage that prevented him from 
storing his bike in it. So instead he locked it securely at the front of the house. But he was 
awoken by the thieves using power tools to remove the locks to steal the bike.
Mr Ms told us that in earlier years hed kept other bikes securely locked at the front of the 
house without incident. I have no reason to doubt him. But I dont think how securely hed 
locked his bike or whether or not that had been enough security to satisfy previous insurers 
helps him in this instance. 
Mr Ms Ageas policy only covered him for theft from his home if his bike was in a secure 
building overnight. That means it didn't cover him if his bike wasnt locked inside overnight, 
regardless of how secure other security measures were and whether this was a one-off 
occurrence or not. And I haven't seen anything in Mr Ms policy documents that might have 
given him the impression he would be covered for such a one-off event. 
When deciding whether to offer policies, and what to charge for those, insurers decide what 
risks they are prepared to cover and what to charge to cover those risks. In this case Ageas 
only accepted the risk of theft from Mr Ms home overnight when the bike was in a secured 
building (garaged). But when Mr Ms bike was stolen it wasnt garaged. So he wasnt 
covered by his policy. And on that basis, Ageas quite reasonably declined his claim in line 
with the policys terms.
Mr M said that, after he realised that he wouldnt be able to lock the bike in his garage 
overnight he tried to contact his broker to tell it. But, as it was in the evening and outside of 
the brokers office hours, he couldnt do so. Instead, he locked the bike up at the front of his 
property. Hes told us that, after he realised his bike was being interfered with, during the 
early hours of the morning, he tried to amend his policy using the brokers online portal. Hes 
said he was unable to do so and that he was simply directed to contact the broker in the 
morning. He said it was only after he did so he learned that he couldnt have amend the 
policy cover online. Mr M believes Ageas has let him down by not putting in place a system 
to allow him to make amendments to policy at any time. But I'm not persuaded by his 
argument.
Mr M told us that when he took out his policy the information the broker provided said hed 
be able to make amendments to his policy 24 hours a day. So he thinks its unfair that he 
couldnt amend his policy in order to ensure he was covered on the night of the theft. But 
hes also told us that he first tried to amend his policy through the brokers portal only after 
hed discover his bike was being interfered with. It seems he didnt try to use the portal 
earlier in the evening when he couldnt contact it by phone. Hes clarified that the thieves 
hadn't actually made off with his bike at that point. But I dont think that matters as to 
whether or not he should have been able to make an amendment to his policy then. 
Thats because, at that stage, Mr M was aware that thieves were in the process of using 
power tools to steal his bike. So I don't think any policy amendment, had Ageas agreed to 
make such an amendment, would have covered him. The reason for that is, like the vast 
majority of insurance policies, Mr Ms policy is designed to cover risks that might potentially 
happen in the future, not risks that have already developed and are very much apparent 
when taking out a policy or making an amendment to it. Such policies won't cover things that 
have already happened or are in the process of happening. 
In other words, when insurers agree to make amendments to their policies its usual that 
they only do so to protect against future, as yet unrealised, risks. But that wasn't the case 
here as the theft was already underway. So even if Mr M had been able to amend his policy, 
given that the theft was already in progress I don't think that amendment - had he been able 
to make it, which would also have required Ageas being been prepared to agree to it - would 
have covered him as the risk had already materialised.Mr M added that when he took out the policy his broker sent him a letter which said he would 
be able to make round the clock changes to it. And, as he wasnt able to do that, he's argued 
that Ageas has fallen foul of FCA rules about the provision of information. But I don't agree 
thats the case here. The offer of a 24 hour policy amendment service was made by the 
broker, not Ageas. And I havent seen anything within Ageas policy documents (the policy 
wording, statement of fact, schedule or insurance certificate) that offers a 24 hour service 
(for anything other than making a claim. Instead this was something proposed by the broker. 
So this isn't something I think Ageas is responsible for. But, even if I did, as I've said above, 
by the time Mr M tried to make the change to his policy, the theft was already underway, so I 
don't think the amendment would have covered him. It follows that I don't think I need to 
instruct Ageas to cover the claim now.
Ill add that I dont think insurers are under an obligation to offer a 24 hour policy amendment 
service to their clients. So I don't think Ageas has acted unfairly by not either ensuring the 
offer of such a service or by not addressing in its policy literature the lack of such a service. 
However, given the broker had offered that service but didnt deliver it, this might be a point 
Mr M wishes to take up directly with the broker. 
Also, our investigator and Mr M have discussed whether it was reasonable for him to begin 
the work on his garage when he did, as the work wasnt essential and he couldnt be certain 
he could complete it in time to lock his bike away. Theyve also discussed whether or not 
Mr M could have reasonably made the broker aware of his intentions to repair the garage 
earlier in the day, during office hours. But I don't think I need to add to that discussion in 
order to arrive at an outcome which is fair and reasonable. 
I note Mr Ms said that his policy is silent on what to do in such a situation. That is where a 
garage required repairs and what the policyholder should do in those circumstances. But 
insurance policies can't cover every eventuality. And I dont think that garage renovations 
are so common that an insurer would need a specific part of a policy that covers that. I'm 
certainly not familiar with any other motorbike policies that specifically addresses that issue. 
So I don't think thats a point Ageas policy needed to cover. 
Further, as I've said above, the key point is that Mr M knew that the policy wouldn't cover a 
theft if his bike was stolen from his property overnight while not being stored in a garage (or 
a secured building). But he left his bike outside anyway, rather than  say  moving it to 
another location. So, as Mr M was in breach of the policy terms  keeping his bike in a 
secured building overnight  he wasnt covered at the time of the theft and Ageas, 
reasonably in my view, refused his claim on that basis.In response to our investigator's assessment of the complaint Mr Ms commented that the 
investigator didnt cite things in support of his view like: case law, judicial findings or industry 
practice guidance. And Mr M will no doubt have noted that, for the most part, I havent done 
that either. Thats because, while we take all those things into account, we are an informal 
case resolution service. We are an alternative to the courts and not a substitute for them. 
And, as such we reach our decisions on what we consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and specific facts of the case at hand. Such a determination doesnt require 
an analysis of any reference materials. So while I understand that my decision is likely to 
disappoint Mr M  I'm satisfied my conclusions are fair and reasonable without citing 
external materials. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman