DRN-3816940
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2016, Mrs C acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mrs C was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £283. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £16,725.
Mrs C says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included carrying out a credit check which showed 
Mrs C had defaulted on some previous borrowing with the most recent default being 33 
months before her application and she also had a county court judgement recorded. It also 
received copies of Mrs Cs bank statements for the months leading up to the agreement 
which were used to verify her income. Moneybarn said that its checks were proportionate 
and that Mrs C met its lending criteria. 
Mrs C also said that Moneybarn didnt provide her with the support it should have when she 
contacted it about her financial situation and explained she was a vulnerable consumer. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs C didnt agree and said that she had bank statements showing her expenditure was 
close to, or higher, than her income at the time. She said the grant income she was receiving 
was temporary and so shouldnt have been included in her income. She said she was in 
arrears with priority bills at the time and that she was treated unfairly when she asked for 
assistance.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before providing finance, Moneybarn carried out a credit check and received copies of 
Mrs Cs bank statements. Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed 
but has explained that the results contained defaults and a count court judgement. It noted 
that the most recent default was from 33 months prior to the application. Mrs C has provided 
extracts of information regarding her credit history. Based on what I have seen, I do not find I 
can dispute Moneybarns comment about the defaults being historic. That said, Mrs Cs 
credit report showed signs that she had experienced previous financial difficulties and based 
on some evidence regarding missed payments around the time of the agreement it 
suggested that she may have still been struggling financially. This doesnt necessarily mean 
that the finance shouldnt have been provided but I think that it meant Moneybarn was 
required to get a thorough understanding of Mrs Cs financial circumstances before lending.
Moneybarn received copies of Mrs Cs bank statements. This will have shown Mrs Cs 
income and expenses for the months leading up to the agreement. Given this I think 
Moneybarn did gather sufficient information before lending. However, just because it 
gathered a reasonable amount of information it doesnt necessarily mean the lending was 
responsible, I have therefore considered what the information showed.
In this case, given Mrs Cs credit history I think that the bank statements should have been 
used to verify her income and expenses. I have looked through the statements and these 
show Mrs Cs income consisted of her wages and benefits. She has explained that the grant 
funding she was receiving of around £800 was a temporary situation. Based on the bank 
statements, Mrs C was received around £1,247 in wages and then around a further £1,130 
in benefits. This gave a monthly income excluding the grant funding of around £2,377. If the 
grant funding was also included her monthly income would be over £3,000. 
The bank statements show that Mrs Cs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time 
was around £1,900. In calculating this figure, Ive included Mrs Cs mortgage, bills, credit 
commitments, food and petrol. I note a significant amount of Mrs Cs expenditure was for 
food and other general living costs which she has explained given the size of her family and 
her responsibilities for household payments. Taking these figures into account, it appears to 
show the agreement was affordable to Mrs C, even without including the grant funding. For 
this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Mrs C maintained her repayments for the first 52 months but then experienced financial 
difficulties. She says that Moneybarn didnt provide her with the support it should have at this 
time. I have looked through Moneybarns system notes and I can see that Mrs C made 
contact with Moneybarn in the latter part of 2020 to explain that her income had reduced due 
to Covid-19. She requested a payment holiday and Moneybarn asked for further evidence of 
the impact Covid-19 was having. Mrs C sent evidence, and this was reviewed but 
Moneybarn then contacted Mrs C requesting a call as it needed more information. This didnt 
happen but Mrs C provided further income and expenditure information showing a monthly 
deficit. Around this time Mrs C also explained that she had suffered a bereavement and was 
experiencing mental health issues. There were then issues regarding the MOT on the car.
I can understand why Mrs C feels she wasnt provided with the support she should have 
been when her income was affected by Covid-19. But having looked through the system 
notes I can see that Moneybarn was trying to work with her. It wasnt unreasonable that it 
requested further information about Mrs Cs circumstances and as it didnt receive the 
information it required it contacted Mrs C to discuss this. Unfortunately, there were further 
issues and Moneybarn explained that back dating Mrs Cs payment holiday would put her in 
a worse situation. On balance, I do not find I can say that Moneybarn did anything wrong in 
regard to the information it requested and so I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman