DRN-3180964
The complaint
Miss T is complaining about the quality of the car she acquired from Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS). 
What happened
Miss T acquired a brand new car on a personal contract plan in October 2020. Shortly after 
she got the car, she started to notice vibrations in the steering wheel and a clunking noise 
sometimes from the wheels. The car was taken to a dealership for investigation and repair 
as needed, but Miss T was told there was nothing wrong with the car. 
After the problem re-appeared a short while later, Miss T took it back to the dealership again, 
and was again told no repairs were carried out. After that, the problems seemed to have 
stopped, so Miss T is concerned that repairs were carried out, and shes never been told 
what the problem was. 
There were also numerous service issues with the dealership who looked at the car. 
Miss T complained to VWFS IN May 2021, and they rejected her complaint. They said that 
there was no fault diagnosed with the vehicle, and the service issues with the dealership 
were not something they could comment on, so they advised Miss T to raise these concerns 
with the dealership herself, or alternatively if she asked them to, they would raise them on 
her behalf. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss T brought her complaint to our service. An investigator 
here investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said they could only consider the 
issue of the potential fault with the car and the quality of the car, and as there was no 
evidence of any fault being diagnosed, and the fault was no longer happening with the car, 
they couldnt agree that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
The investigator also confirmed that our service couldnt look into or comment on the service 
received from the dealership as this wouldnt be part of our remit, but provided details of 
where this could be raised by Miss T. 
Miss T wasnt happy with this outcome. She feels concerned that there could be an 
underlying fault with the vehicle that she hasnt been told about, and the service she 
received from the dealership has upset her deeply. She asked for an Ombudsman to review 
the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I empathise with Miss T particularly for any service issues she had with the 
dealership. As weve already told her, it isnt something that we can comment on or consider 
for her. The service received from a dealership isnt part of our remit here to consider. I know 
its been raised for her with the dealership, and shes been made aware that the Motor 
Ombudsman may be able to look at this if she isnt satisfied with the response from the 
dealership.  I hope she gets a satisfactory resolution, but I wont be discussing those issues 
any further here.
With regards to the problems with a knocking noise and vibration in the steering wheel, Ive 
considered the evidence weve been provided. In considering this complaint Ive had regard 
to the relevant law and regulations; any regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice, and (if appropriate) what I consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss T 
was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability.
This was a brand new car, and it seems clear something wasnt right. As well as Miss Ts 
testimony, a technician did note the knocking noise on one occasion when examining the 
car. However, it's also clear that there isnt a knocking noise or steering wheel vibration now. 
Miss T is concerned because the problem appears to have gone away by itself; the 
dealership has said they havent repaired anything. She feels this might indicate the fault is 
still present and the noise or vibration could re-appear at any point, which concerns her. But 
I cant say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Whether the fault 
corrected itself, or whether it was repaired, there isnt any evidence of the fault happening 
now, so the car is of satisfactory quality. 
Alongside this, even if a fault had been repaired, this wouldnt mean the car was 
automatically of unsatisfactory quality. Cars often have faults and repairs can be needed. So 
even if it transpired that something has been repaired, there is no problem now, so this 
wouldnt change my decision.  
I think it's important for me to highlight that if VWFS had confirmed there had been a fault, 
and that they had repaired it, this also wouldnt change the situation here for Miss T if any 
problem does subsequently re-appear. I am referring to Miss Ts rights under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015. VWFS were given the opportunity to inspect and if required repair the car. 
They would always have had the right to attempt to repair the problem once. 
If a fault re-appears now which makes the car of unsatisfactory quality, VWFS have already 
had a chance to repair it. So, if its shown to be something present or developing at the point 
of sale, shes already given the business their chance to repair it. 
I hope this gives Miss T some comfort as it seems clear she has concerns that there might 
still be some underlying fault with the car. If this turns out to be the case, she still has her 
rights under the CRA, and has raised this problem with the business inside the first 6 
months. 
Miss T mentioned one further point in her discussions with us. This isnt something she has 
raised as a complaint, so my response will be purely for information at this stage. Shes 
mentioned more recently noticing condensation in the headlights. This can be commonplace, 
particularly with LED headlights. It isnt generally anything to worry about and will often come 
and go with weather conditions. But Im not making a finding on this, as it hasnt been complained about at this stage. If Miss 
T has concerns with this issue, she can raise them directly with VWFS separately to this 
complaint.   
Overall, whilst I empathise with Miss Ts concerns that there might still be a fault with the car, 
there isnt any evidence of this. I understand her concern that the dealership has said there 
is no fault and they havent repaired anything, especially as her confidence in them has been 
dented after her dealings with them. But with no evidence that any fault is still present, I 
wont be asking VWFS to do any more here.      
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman