DRN-2087069
The complaint
Miss S says that she complained to PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender and accepted 
an offer it made to put things right. But Miss S says it didnt amend her credit file to reflect 
that it had written off some of her loan balance. Her credit file still showed that she owed the 
full amount to Mr Lender rather than the reduced amount that had been agreed. She says 
her credit file should reflect the actual position of the debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Miss S between 
December 2017 and January 2018.
To resolve the complaint Mr Lender agreed to write of the interest Miss S owed on her final 
loan. This would mean she would only repay the £750 she borrowed. Miss S accepted this 
offer in relation to her mis-selling complaint. And she agreed to repay the loan on different 
terms to the agreed at outset. 
Miss S has complained that her credit file shows that she still owes the full amount of around 
£1,400. 
Mr Lender has clarified that a discount will be applied at the end of the new agreement to 
repay the capital which will bring the outstanding balance down to zero at this point. So the 
credit file is correct and reflects what was agreed.
Miss S doesnt agree with this and she points to the section in the final response letter that 
says Mr Lender will assist by reducing your balance   to the capital borrowed of £750.00. 
She thinks this is misleading and different from how the offer worked in practice. She says 
she didnt find out that the balance would be reduced at the end till after she accepted the 
offer.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the offer was fair and the credit file 
correctly reflected the loan repayments and the arrangement to pay. Miss S disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having looked at the offer letter I agree that it was potentially misleading. It doesnt fully 
explain how it will work in practice and I can see why Miss S didnt fully understand why it 
was reported on her credit file in the way that it was. That said I dont think its right to ask 
Mr Lender to do anything further, Ill explain why. 
The offer made, and the way it was implemented, were fair. I wouldnt make a further award 
given what Mr Lender has already agreed to do. 
Whilst the way the offer to write off the balance was shown on Miss S credit file wasnt how 
she was expecting, or wanted it to be, it wasnt incorrect of unfair. And it did reasonably 
reflect the situation at the time. 
And lastly Miss S has now entered into a Debt Relief Order. And if she adheres to the terms 
of this then this loan will be written off entirely. Any further action from this Service that may 
improve her circumstances could jeopardise this. 
So, given all of the above, Im dont agree that Mr Lender should take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman