DRN-2162593
The complaint
Mr S has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua), acted irresponsibly when it 
offered him a credit card, and didnt treat him positively and sympathetically when he 
couldnt make payments. 
What happened
Mr S applied for an Aqua credit card in December 2018. His application was successful and 
Aqua gave him a card with a credit limit of £600. Mr S exceeded the credit limit in February 
2019, and he couldnt keep up with the minimum payments.
The balance of Mr S Aqua card was cleared in August 2019 by his father, who is also acting 
as a representative in his complaint.
Mr S says that Aqua didnt carry out proper checks when he applied for the card, and if it 
had, it wouldve seen he had several other accounts that were over their limit. Mr S says he 
carried out agency work which wasnt always stable, and he didnt receive sick pay. And that 
left him vulnerable to sudden variations in his income.
When Mr S couldnt make the payments, he says Aqua chased him for payments he couldnt 
afford. And it added interest and charges which made it even more difficult for him to pay. 
Aqua provided a final response to Mr S complaint in November 2019. It didnt uphold the 
complaint and said when Mr S applied for the card, its credit checks showed no arrears or 
defaults. They accept Mr S held accounts elsewhere, but say the credit checks it carried out 
revealed none of these accounts were in arrears and there were no defaults on any other 
accounts. It also said that it had relied on Mr S declared income at the time. Aqua said Mr S 
met its acceptance criteria and felt a credit limit of £600 was appropriate.
In its final response, Aqua said Mr S hadnt made it aware of his personal circumstances and 
noted that the balance on his July 2019 card was paid in full. A further £20.00 payment 
made by Mr S on the card was added to the August statement. As a gesture of goodwill, 
Aqua refunded charges of £24.00, interest of £17.40 and applied a £20.00 credit to the 
account to reduce the balance to zero. It then closed the account. 
When Mr S brought his complaint to this Service, our investigator thought Aqua had acted 
fairly. Mr S didnt accept our investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S applied for the credit card, Aqua needed to check whether he would be able to 
repay it in a way which was sustainable. It needed to carry out checks which were 
proportionate. And to consider things like the amount of credit being applied for and the 
information Mr S provided about his financial situation. There isnt a set list of checks, but the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook explains what it considers to be reasonable 
credit worthiness checks (CONC 5.2A), and proportionate checks (CONC 5.2A.20R).  
Aqua says its decision to offer credit was based on information supplied by Mr S, data from 
the credit reference agencies and its own risk strategies. Aqua says it completed various 
checks including affordability and indebtedness checks before approving Mr S application. 
Its for Aqua to decide who it gives credit to and on what basis. What Id expect is for Aqua to 
carry out enough checks before it does so. Based on the information available to me, Im 
satisfied it did. 
Aqua says that Mr S met their eligibility criteria and his declared income of £25,000 per year 
plus access to an additional £32,000, was enough to afford the minimum payments on the 
card. Mr S father, who has acted as his representative in this complaint, feels that it is 
irresponsible to provide several credit cards to younger people. However, I am satisfied that 
in this case Aqua didnt act irresponsibly. It felt Mr S declared income was more than 
enough to service the credit cards and debts he had when he applied. And Aqua is entitled 
to rely on the declaration by Mr S.
When Mr S exceeded his credit limit in February 2019, Aqua suspended the account.
Mr S spoke with Aqua about his account in early May 2019. Aqua records that Mr S said he 
thought there was a direct debit in place for payments to the account. And told Aqua he had 
lost his debit card. He told Aqua he would pay £350.00 into the account that day using its 
app. I have seen the June statement records Mr S two payments of £79.35. But although 
there was no payment of £350.00, the account was below its limit by the end of June 2019.
I havent seen anything which shows that Mr S told Aqua about his personal financial 
position in May 2019. And when the account again exceeded the limit in July 2019, the 
balance on the statement was paid in August. By this time a further payment of £20 had 
been applied along with charges and interest in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
I dont think it would be fair for me to decide Aqua didnt deal positively and sympathetically 
with Mr S financial position. It wasnt aware of the difficulties Mr S was experiencing until it 
received his complaint. Mr S explained why the account limit had been exceeded and 
confirmed this would be corrected. And the June statement shows that Mr S made two 
payments to the account to bring it back within the limit.
I have seen that in its final response Aqua decided to refund the late charges and interest it 
applied after the July statement so that the card balance was fully cleared. It also credited 
the sum of £20.00 in respect of a payment debited to the card in July that was recorded in 
the August statement. I consider this supports Aqua did respond positively and 
sympathetically when it was made aware of Mr S financial problems.
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking NewDay Limited trading as Aqua to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman