DRN-2891538
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Marsh 
Finance Ltd, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 8 November 2019, Mrs M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Marsh Finance. The agreement was for £11,613.01 over 60 months; with 59 
monthly repayments of £314.52, and a final payment of £324.52. At the time the car was four 
and a half years old and had done 92,085 miles.
In April 2020, after travelling around 9,500 miles, Mrs M said that the timing chain broke. She 
complained to Marsh Finance that it shouldnt have broken so soon after being supplied with 
the car. And, if the timing chain needed to be replaced when the car was supplied to her, 
then Mrs M said this shouldve been pointed out to her when the car was supplied  she 
says it wasnt. Mrs M was also unhappy with the warranty shed been sold.
Marsh Finance said that, because of the distance Mrs M had been able to travel before the 
car broke down, they didnt think the fault was present when the car was supplied. Mrs M 
was unhappy with Marsh Finances response, and she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator said that, because of the high mileage on the car when it was supplied, then 
any reasonable person would expect it to have suffered notable wear and tear. And there 
was a greater risk the car might need repair or maintenance sooner than a car that wasnt as 
road worn when supplied.
He said there was a fault with the car, but this doesnt necessarily mean the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied. The timing chain broke after the car had travelled 
around 101,500 miles, and Mrs M had driven it for around 9,500 miles before the fault 
occurred. He thought that, if the timing chain was faulty when supplied, it wouldve broken 
sooner. So he considered the issue to be one of wear and tear. And he didnt think Marsh 
Finance needed to do anything to put this right.
Her also said that, because the warranty didnt form part of the agreement with Marsh 
Finance, this wasnt something we were able to look into. And that Mrs M would need to 
raise this separately with the supplying dealership and/or the warranty company.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view. And shes asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Marsh Finance are responsible.  
Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, if I 
thought the car was faulty when Mrs M took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Marsh Finance to put this right.
When Mrs M took possession of the car, it was over four years old and had done over 
92,000 miles. Id expect to see wear and tear in a vehicle thats done significantly mileage. 
And I think any reasonable person would expect major components to need replacing much 
sooner than with a low mileage car, and for there to be costs associated with this.
While Ive not seen any evidence that this is the case, its not disputed that the timing chain 
broke in April 2000, after Mrs M had travelled in the region of 9,500 miles in the car. But 
what I need to consider is whether the broken timing chain, and the repairs the car needed, 
meant it wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs M.
A timing chain is a part that isnt expected to last the lifetime of a car and will need replacing 
over time. Marsh Finance have said that, for this particular make and model of car, the 
timing chain would need replacing between 80,000 and 120,000 miles. So, given the 
mileage the car had done when supplied, its reasonable to assume that the timing chain 
was approaching the end of its natural life.
Mrs M has said she wasnt told that the timing chain needed replacing when she took 
possession of the car. But she hasnt said that she specifically asked about the need to 
replace components such as a timing chain. And theres no evidence to show what she was 
or wasnt told by the dealership. Mrs M drove the car for around 9,500 miles before the 
timing chain broke. And if the timing chain was faulty at the point of supply, Id expected the 
fault to have occurred earlier. And Ive not seen anything, such as a report from an 
independent engineer, saying that the timing chain was faulty when Mrs M took possession 
of the car. So its more likely than not that the failure of the timing chain was as a result of 
wear and tear.
Given the above, Im satisfied that that car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mrs M.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Marsh Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman