DRN-3629954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd treated them unfairly when 
offering insurance. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr G made a subsidence claim against a China Taiping traders insurance policy. He 
was unhappy with various aspects of how the claim had been handled. He was also 
disappointed the insurer, following the claim, removed subsidence cover from his policy. 
Those issues were considered by an ombudsman, at this service, in a previous complaint.  
Her final decision directions included requiring China Taiping to Consider the risk of 
continuing Mr Gs previous cover against its underwriting criteria  without applying the 
ongoing subsidence claim  and If it is able to continue cover, at Mr Gs option offer him 
renewal terms (including subsidence cover) for the 2021 renewal onwards as if the policy 
had continued.
Following that China Taiping offered the full cover Mr G previously held (with Mrs G as a 
joint policyholder) for an annual premium of about £6,600. Mr and Mrs G didnt take up that 
offer. Instead they took out a subsidence only policy China Taiping had also offered  
including a spell of backdated subsidence cover.
Mr and Mrs G returned to this service unhappy about the £6,600 premium. They feel this is 
excessive considering their pre-subsidence claim premium was about £1,250. They are also 
unhappy about a £5,000 subsidence excess.   
This service can only consider complaints that arise from a regulated activity. Many of the 
complaint points Mr and Mrs G have raised are related to China Taipings compliance with 
the previous final decision. Compliance with one of this services final decisions isnt 
considered a regulated activity. So we are unable to consider many of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint points  including their opinion that China Taipings deliberately violating the final 
decision direction by offering the full cover at an unaffordable high price. Neither can we 
reconsider, or address, any issues considered in the previous complaint. 
I can, separately from any final decision direction, consider if China Taiping acted fairly when 
quoting that premium and consider if Mr and Mrs G lost out because of it failing to do so. In 
the same way, I can consider the excess applied to the new cover. Finally, I can look at the 
concerns Mr and Mrs G have about the subsidence only cover.
One of our investigators provided her assessment of Mr and Mrs Gs latest complaint. 
Having considered an explanation from one of its underwriters she didnt feel China Taiping 
had acted unfairly when quoting the premium of £6,600. But she recommended it refund the 
premiums paid for the backdated subsidence only cover. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept that 
outcome, so the complaint was passed to me. 
In March 2023 I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, 
so Ive copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt think Mr and Mrs G had lost out 
financially by any failure of China Taiping to comply with an ABI agreement. I said why I was 
satisfied the insurer had, when calculating the £6,600 premium, treated them in line with how 
it would other customers in the same position.  I explained why I wasnt persuaded by Mr Gs 
argument that China Taiping doesnt intend to honour the subsidence only cover. Finally I 
said, if Mr and Mrs G provide China Taiping with evidence of alternative cover, it should 
return the premiums paid for that cover. 
I asked Mr and Mrs G and China Taiping for any further evidence they would like me to 
consider before issuing this final decision. The insurer didnt provide a response. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the outcome of my provisional decision. They provided some 
comments and correspondence for me to consider. Within this they confirmed they didnt 
have alternative subsidence cover. Following that I explained to both parties I no longer 
intended to include the refund direction in my final decision. Ive addressed Mr and Mrs Gs 
other comments, where I feel it necessary to, below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs G or China Taipings provided. Instead Ive focused on those I 
consider to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything our rules allow me to.
I dont feel China Taiping acted unfairly by applying a £5,000 excess for subsidence 
to the various offers of insurance. Considering the size of Mr and Mrs Gs property 
and the likely cost of any future subsidence claim I cant say it creates a barrier to a 
claim. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates 
continually change. China Taipings provided me with information to explain how the 
£6,600 quote for full cover was calculated. Mr and Mrs G have asked that I share that 
information. Im afraid I cant do that as its confidential and business sensitive.
I can share China Taipings broad explanation for the general increase in premium. In 
recent years its made significant changes to how it considers the risk for the type of 
commercial property Mr and Mrs G are asking it to insure. It now takes into account 
more factors than it did previously. Having considered its explanation Im satisfied it, 
when calculating the premium, treated them in line with how it would treat other 
customers with similar circumstances. I havent seen anything to make me think it 
discriminated in some way. 
Our investigator noted China Taipings quote for new business, rather than a 
renewal of an existing policy. An Association of British Insurers agreement on 
subsidence speaks of insurers providing continuing cover. The agreement relates to 
domestic properties. Mr and Mrs Gs is part commercial and part residential. But 
even if I accept the ABI agreement is relevant, and so the quote should have been 
for renewal, Im not currently persuaded they lost out financially by being considered 
new business.
China Taipings underwriter explained how a renewal premium for 2022 would have 
been calculated. In short the 2020 renewal quote would have been used as the 
basis, with subsidence cover added (and relevant premium). The premium would 
have increased, for 21 and 22, but to a lower point than the 2022 new business quote. The underwriter accepted the renewal premium probably would have been 
lower than £6,600.
But for me to say Mr and Mrs G lost out by any failure here, Id need to be persuaded 
the quote would have been attractive to them. But it seems unlikely it would have 
been. They have explained how much they have been paying for insurance (without 
subsidence cover) and the China Taiping subsidence only cover. Im satisfied the 
combined cost is significantly lower than a full cover renewal quote from China 
Taiping. So it seems likely they would be in the same position they are now. 
Mr and Mrs G took out back dated subsidence only cover, from China Taiping. They 
seem to feel they were told to do so by China Taiping. They are unhappy with this as 
they already had cover for the period from another provider. China Taiping says it 
didnt ask Mr and Mrs G to take that cover. It says it provided quotes when asked to 
by their intermediary. China Taipings underwriter has said it doesnt normally offer 
this type of cover  but did so to try to assist Mr and Mrs G following this services 
previous final decision. 
There seems to be some confusion about what happened. If Mr and Mrs G did 
already have subsidence cover it would seem unnecessary for them to have taken 
out further insurance, providing the same benefit, for the same period. So it would 
seem fair that, if Mr and Mrs G provide it with evidence of the alternative cover, that 
China Taiping return the premiums they paid for the subsidence only cover for the 
relevant period. 
Mr and Mrs G have raised concern about the validity of their China Taiping 
subsidence only cover. They have quoted correspondence from the insurers agent 
as evidence that its unlikely to honour the cover. 
Having read the full letter it predates Mr and Mrs G taking out the subsidence only 
cover. It refers to their ongoing claim, rather than any new claim made under the 
recent policies. As far as Im aware, China Taiping hasnt declined a claim under the 
subsidence only cover. Im not persuaded by Mr Gs argument that it doesnt intend 
to honour one. If Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with any response to a future claim they 
could consider raising a further complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs G or China Taipings provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider 
to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything our rules allow me to.
Mr and Mrs G arent satisfied with the scope of my consideration. They referred again to 
previous events considered in their previous complaint with this service. As Ive explained 
previously, Im unable to return to these issues as they were considered as part of the earlier 
complaint.
They also referred to ongoing subsidence issues at their property. But this complaint isnt 
considering a claim. If they arent satisfied with how China Taiping has handled one they 
should raise their concerns with it first. Should they remain unhappy, then they can bring that 
complaint to us to consider in line with our jurisdiction.Mr and Mrs G raised concern the insurer may deny subsidence assistance, by claiming loss 
occurred during a period when they were without cover. As far as Im aware, the subsidence 
only policy means there is no period without cover for subsidence. And in any case the 
possibility they raise hasnt happened. If it does, they can consider raising a complaint.
Mr and Mrs G made some further comments about their feeling China Taiping doesnt intend 
to honour the subsidence only cover. Im still not persuaded of this argument. I said in my 
provisional decision if the insurer does decline a claim, they could consider raising a further 
complaint. They asked if such a complaint would be disallowed by this service. I cant give a 
commitment to a hypothetical situation here. Any complaint referred to this service would be 
looked at in line with our jurisdiction, and other relevant, rules. 
In my provisional decision I said I intended to require China Taiping to, on receipt of 
evidence of alternative cover, reimburse Mr and Mrs G what they had paid for the 
subsidence only cover. In response they said the idea they had alternative cover is incorrect. 
My requirement for a refund was based on the existence of dual cover. Now Im satisfied 
thats not an issue, theres no need for a refund. 
I havent seen enough to persuade me China Taiping forced or pressured Mr and Mrs G to 
take the policies out. Having spoken to its underwriter Im satisfied they were offered, outside 
of its usual approach, as a genuine attempt to provide a cost-effective solution for Mr G.  So 
Im not including the refund requirement in this final decision. 
According to Mr and Mrs G I ignored China Taipings failure to offer continuous cover. I 
made several enquiries to the insurer to understand if they lost out financially due to any 
failure of it do so. So I dont agree with them on this. And as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I didnt think they lost out. Mr and Mrs G havent provided anything to change my 
mind on this. 
Mr and Mrs G say China Taipings recently harassed them, via their broker, by requesting 
information. They link this to my request to Mr G for details of how much he had paid for 
insurance with his alternative provider. Im not going to consider this here, it seems to be a 
new complaint point. Mr and Mrs G should allow China Taiping the opportunity to their 
concern.
Finally, Mr and Mrs G asked to be assured they have been shown all communication 
between this service and China Taiping. They then made a Subject Access Request (SAR) 
for the information. As far as Im aware all relevant information, that hadnt already been 
provided to them by China Taiping or this service, has been shared with them  apart from 
some detailed and commercially sensitive underwriting information I feel its inappropriate to 
share. So I think its unlikely anything provided, in response to their SAR, would change the 
outcome of this complaint. For that reason Ive gone ahead and issued this final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to cover 
any losses, pay any compensation or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Daniel MartinOmbudsman