DRN-3746614
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain that ReAssure Limited mis-sold them a whole of life policy in 1989 
and provided incorrect information about their premiums in 2020.
What happened
In 1989, Mr J and Mrs J met with a financial adviser of a business that has since been 
acquired by ReAssure who have taken on responsibility for the sale and dealing with any 
complaints. The initial premium of £20.56 was split between life cover and savings, with the 
life cover provided being £32,156 if either Mr J or Mrs L passed. 
Mr J and Mrs J complained to ReAssure in 2020 that they hadnt been told that the 
premiums were reviewable and believed the policy was inappropriate because they thought 
the premiums were fixed.
ReAssure provided a final response to Mr J and Mrs J and didnt uphold the complaint. 
ReAssure said there was a need identified for the policy and that it had provided full details 
of the policy in the illustration and Plan for Life brochure provided at the time of the sale, and 
when they issued the right to cancel notice soon after the policy started. ReAssure told Mr J 
and Mrs J that the premiums for the life cover part of the policy had been cancelled at 
inception, but later responded to say this was an error. ReAssure offered Mr J and Mrs J a 
payment of £300 to reflect the upset caused by their error in the final response.
Mr J and Mrs J didnt accept the offer from ReAssure or their final response and brought 
their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into 
things and thought that the policy hadnt been mis-sold, and that the offer made by 
ReAssure of £300 for the upset caused when they provided incorrect information about the 
premium to Mr J and Mrs J was a reasonable one. 
Mr J and Mrs J asked that an Ombudsman now decides the complaint, so it has been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr J and Mrs J will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and that the remedy offered by ReAssure 
for the upset they caused when they told Mr J and Mrs J the premiums had been cancelled 
from the start of the policy was a reasonable one. I will now explain why. 
Mis-sale of the policy
The sale of the policy happened more than 30 years and there is no record of what Mr J and 
Mrs J discussed with the adviser when it was sold. Ive considered the documents Mr J and 
Mrs J and ReAssure have provided and taken into account recollections of Mr J and Mrs J 
and what ReAssure say happened. My decision takes into account what I consider was 
more likely to have happened at the point of sale based on this evidence.
The first thing I need to consider is was there a need for the policy. Mr J and Mrs J say that 
they wanted a policy to provide life cover, and at the time they had two dependent children. 
Mr J and Mrs J have also told us that it was their intention to use the policy to cover funeral 
costs if they passed. Because of this Im satisfied that there was a need for the policy and 
because there was no specific timescale for the policy to run, its more likely than not a 
whole of life policy would have been a suitable policy at the time. 
Mr J and Mrs J say they cant recall being told the premiums could increase and point me to 
the illustration provided to support this. I can see the illustration and the policy schedule from 
the time dont specifically say the premiums, or life cover, could increase or decrease. 
However, these documents make it clear that customers should refer to the Plan for Life 
brochure for the full policy details. And, Ive seen that when they signed the application form, 
Mr J and Mrs J signed to confirm theyd read and understood the Plan for Life brochure that 
was likely provided with the documents. Shortly after the application form was signed by Mr 
J and Mrs J, ReAssure wrote to them to and provided a further copy of the Plan for Life 
document directly alongside a right to cancel notice. 
The illustrations, policy schedule and application form make it clear that the level of 
protection recommended was High Protection. The Plan for Life brochure specifically refers 
to how a High Protection policy differs and how reviews are carried out after the first 10-
years to establish if the level of cover can still be provided. It says the cover will only be 
maintained for 10-years (as Mr J and Mrs J were under 60 at the time the policy started) and 
that its likely ReAssure may ask for the life cover to reduce. Or, alternatively Mr J and Mrs J 
could increase their monthly premium to maintain the level of cover.
So, although I understand Mr J and Mrs J say they cant recall being told that the premiums 
could increase, I consider its more likely than not Mr J and Mrs J would have been provided 
these documents, and that its more likely than not the adviser or ReAssure had made them 
aware this was the case.
Premiums cancelled from inception
ReAssure dont dispute they made an error in telling Mr J and Mrs J that the protection 
premiums had been cancelled from the start of the plan. Theyve since confirmed to Mr J 
and Mrs J that this wasnt the case, and that the protection premiums were collected until the 
policy lapsed in 2019. I can see that ReAssure made the error in a letter to Mr J and Mrs J 
dated 30 April 2020, but after Mr J contacted ReAssure, they confirmed in July 2020 this 
wasnt the case. ReAssure later offered £300 for the upset the error had caused. 
I can appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr J and Mrs J, and that it took several 
months for ReAssure to clarify the position regarding the premiums, but Im satisfied the 
offer made is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited have already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay 
Mr J and Mrs J £300.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman