DRN-3596724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their request to 
transfer (port) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage and to add Mrs E to 
the mortgage.
To settle the complaint, they would like Santander to reimburse the early repayment charge 
(ERC) of £11,242.63 they had to pay when they took out a mortgage with a new lender.
The complaint has been conducted on Mr and Mrs Es behalf by a family member, but for 
clarity I will refer to Mr and Mrs E throughout, even where representations have been made 
on their behalf.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 13 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs E being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In August 2009 Mr E took out a mortgage in his sole name. It was on an interest-only basis 
over a term of 32 years, initially on a two-year fixed rate. Mr E has arranged various interest 
rate products over the years as each one reached its expiry date. The last one was taken out 
in January 2017, for a rate fixed until 2 April 2022. At this point the mortgage balance was 
just under £224,000, with a remaining term of 24 years 7 months.
The mortgage offer stated that if the mortgage was repaid in full or in part (other than 
allowed repayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance) before 2 April 2022 an ERC of 
5% of the amount repaid would be charged. The mortgage offer also said that the interest 
rate product could be transferred onto another mortgage, subject to meeting Santanders 
lending and affordability criteria.
In January 2021 an application was submitted to Santander for a new mortgage, with a 
request to port the interest rate product onto the new mortgage. The application was made 
by an independent financial adviser acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs E. The mortgage 
required was £223,000 and was to be in the joint names of Mr and Mrs E, with a change in 
the loan-to-value ratio from 35% to 59%.
After making enquiries and receiving further information, and after considering an appeal, in 
March 2021 Santander declined the application, as it didnt meet lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs E have told us they took out a mortgage of £150,000 with a different lender to 
purchase their new property  which was not the same property they applied to Santander to 
lend against. On redemption of his Santander mortgage Mr E paid an ERC of £11,242.63, 
which Mr E would like Santander to reimburse.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, arguing that it was entitled to decline the application 
on the basis of affordability and because it didnt meet lending criteria. A complaint was 
made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The investigator initially thought the complaint 
should be upheld. However, after receiving further information from Santander about the 
lending criteria it had applied, she thought Santander had been entitled to decline the 
application. 
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is correct that the mortgage offer from 2017 had a provision which allowed the interest rate 
product to be ported onto a new mortgage. However, this was qualified by a caveat that the 
new application must meet Santanders lending criteria.
The rules laid down by the regulator relating to porting allow a lender to disregard the rules 
relating to assessment of affordability if there is no increase in borrowing and no other 
changes that are material to affordability.
Although the porting request was for the same amount as the existing mortgage with no 
additional borrowing, it was not a like for like porting application. Thats because there was 
also a request to add Mrs E to the mortgage, as well as a change to the LTV, increasing it to 
59%. 
Santander was told that Mr and Mrs Es current home was valued at £600,000 (Mr E 
subsequently sold it for £640,000). The property Mr and Mrs E entered on the mortgage 
application was for £377,000, and was over 80 miles away from where Mr and Mrs E had 
previously been living. 
In addition, Santander had concerns arising from information supplied by Mr Es accountant 
relating to the solvency of his business, about the increased risk due to the higher LTV and 
because the change of location was likely to have a material effect on Mr Es work. 
As a result, Santander was entitled to treat this as a new application and to consider 
affordability. I think this was reasonable, because the changes were material to affordability. 
There was an increase in LTV, and, although I note Mr E works in an industry sector where 
there is usually high demand for his skills, he was moving over 80 miles away from the area 
where hed previously operated his business.
I note that Mr and Mrs Es mortgage broker also confirmed to us:  there were negative 
shareholders funds on the Accountant Reference Certificate. Therefore, there was no 
tangible business income for the lender to work with in regard to affordability The 
applicants needed the entire mortgage to port and were not in a position to accept porting a 
lower loan amount.
It is difficult for me, given that Mr and Mrs Es own broker has acknowledged the difficulties 
relating to affordability, to reach any other conclusion than to find that Santander acted 
reasonably in declining the application.
Santander has also explained that its lending criteria for an interest-only mortgage required 
there to be at least £250,000 equity in the property. I think this is information Mr and Mrs Es mortgage broker would, or should, have known, as its clearly stated on Santanders 
intermediaries portal. The application submitted to Santander was just under £100,000 short 
on this equity figure, as there would have been only £154,000 equity in the property.
It is also stated there that porting is only permitted where there is no further increase in the 
LTV. In this case, the LTV was increasing from 35% to 59%.
I dont know why, with this information available to him, the broker submitted an application 
which was, in effect, doomed to failure, given it fell so far outside Santanders lending 
criteria that the bank was never going to agree to it. Thats something Mr and Mrs E would 
need to ask their broker about.
Despite what the broker said about Mr and Mrs E needing the entire £223,000 to enable 
them to move, I note Mr and Mrs E went on to purchase a different property costing about 
£120,000 more than the property they originally wanted Santander to lend on, and with a 
mortgage from another lender of only £150,000. That happened after Santander declined the 
application on the cheaper property, and so Santander had no involvement in it.
Im satisfied that the ERC was fairly applied after Mr E redeemed the mortgage with 
Santander. This was in accordance with the terms of the mortgage contract, and so I can 
find no basis on which Santander should be required to refund any part of it. I appreciate this 
isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs E were hoping for, but in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
unable to find Santander has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman