DRN-2897723
The complaint
Miss P complains that Morses Club PLC was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Morses Club provided Miss P with four loans between April 2015 and July 2016. The details 
of these are set out below.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £100 21/04/2015 29/10/2015
2 £100 07/08/2015 29/04/2016
3 £200 29/10/2015 22/07/2016
4 £300 22/07/2016 debt sale
Miss P says that Morses Club didnt carry out adequate checks before providing the loans 
and had it done so the loans wouldnt have been provided. She says the loans have resulted 
in her being depressed and unable to sleep.
Morses Club explained its approach to lending and that affordability assessments were 
undertaken before each loan with its agent visiting Miss Ps home and going through her 
income and expenses.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think he had enough to say that the 
first loan shouldnt have been provided but didnt think that Morses Club should have 
provided loans 2 to 4 to Miss P. He noted that at the time of loan 2, loan 1 was still 
outstanding and Miss P was reported as having loans outstanding with two other lenders. He 
thought this showed that Miss P was having problems managing her money and that it was 
unlikely she would be able to sustainably repay this and any subsequent loans.
Morses Club didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that although Miss P had other 
outstanding loans these had been captured in its income and expenditure assessment. It 
said that the repayment amounts due on loans 1 and 2 combined were less than 5% of 
Miss Ps disposable income and that Miss P had a higher level of disposable income for loan 
3 and this increased further by loan 4. It said based on its assessments the loans were 
affordable for Miss P. It also noted that none of the loans were for more than £300 and they 
werent long term.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss Ps first loan was for £100 with a finance charge of £70 bringing the total 
repayable to £170. Before the loan was provided information about Miss Ps income 
and expenses was gathered. As this was Miss Ps first loan with Morses Club and the 
repayments were for £5 a week, less than the amount she said she could afford, and 
her disposable income suggested the loan was affordable I did not find I could say 
this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Miss P was provided with a second loan before she had repaid her first. Repayments 
for loan 2 were £5 a week for 34 weeks which combined with the repayments due on 
loan 1 gave total repayments of £10 a week. Before loan 2 was provided details of 
Miss Ps income and expenses were gathered. I didnt think her partners wages 
should be taken into account, but I noted that the expenses might be shared. Miss P 
was asked how much extra she could afford to pay each week and ticked the box 
saying £50. Therefore, I didnt find that I had enough based solely on the income and 
expenses assessment to say that the loan was unaffordable.
Miss P recorded loans with two other lenders outstanding when loan 2 was provided. 
I considered this but didnt think that this was enough to say that Morses Club should 
have realised that Miss P wouldnt have been able to sustainably afford to repay the 
loans. Before the loan was provided a detailed income and expenses assessment 
was carried out and Miss P had been making the repayments on her first loan. Based 
on the information I thought the checks carried out were reasonable and without 
further evidence to show that Morses Club shouldve been reasonably aware this 
loan wasnt sustainably affordable I didnt find I could say Morses Club was wrong to 
provide this loan.
Loan 3 was taken out on the same day that loan 1 was repaid and while loan 2 was 
still outstanding. This loan was for a higher amount, £200 and repayments were set 
at £10 a week for 33 weeks. I didnt think Miss Ps borrowing history at this stage was 
enough to say that the loan shouldnt have been provided and the income and 
expenditure assessment suggested the loan was affordable 
Loan 4 was provided in July 2016, by which time Miss P had been borrowing from 
Morses Club for around 15 months. Miss P had repaid loan 2 by this time and repaid 
loan 3 on the day she was provided loan 4. Loan 4 was for a higher amount than the 
previous loans. At this point, I thought it would have been reasonable for Morses 
Club to have carried out a thorough review of Miss Ps financial situation to ensure 
that she could sustainably afford to repay this loan.
Had further checks been carried out I thought that Morses Club would have realised 
that Miss P was struggling to manage her money. A county court judgement had 
been recorded against Miss P in October 2015 and at the time of loan 4 her credit file 
showed she had other accounts that were in arrears. Given this I thought that lending 
to Miss P at this time was unlikely to be sustainably affordable and so I didnt think 
that loan 4 should have been provided.
Neither party provided any new information in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses Club was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Ive considered what this means for Miss Ps 
complaint. Having done so I do not think I have enough to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. But, by loan 4 I think further checks should have been carried out to 
ensure the loan was sustainably affordable. Had these happened I think Morses Club would 
have realised that Miss Pw as struggling to manage her money and that lending to her 
wasnt sustainably affordable.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Morses Club PLC.
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan 4, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss P may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss P would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I do not think that Morses Club should have provided loan 4. It appears that the loan was 
sold to a third party. If this is the case, Morses Club should take back the loan or, if it isnt 
able or willing to take back the loan, ensure the following actions are taken.All interest and charges on loan 4 should be waived and any payments made 
towards the loan should be considered as though they were payments of capital such 
that Miss P is only required to repay the capital amount she borrowed. If this results 
in Miss P having made overpayments, these should be refunded to Miss P, along 
with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
Any adverse information recorded about loan 4 should be removed from Miss Ps 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Morses Club PLC. Morses 
Club PLC should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman