DRN-2965083
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the quality of a car he acquired using a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited.
What happened
Mr W acquired a used electric car in 2017 under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The car cost over £50,000 and the agreement is due to be paid back with 
instalments of around £575 for five years. The car was two years old and had covered 
around 24,500 miles when Mr W acquired it. 
Midway through 2019, Mr W says he noticed an increase in the charging time for the car 
battery after an over the air update from the manufacturer. He complained to a 
manufacturer franchised dealer as well as Black Horse. 
Mr W is unhappy because he says he didnt give permission for the manufacturer to 
remotely amend the charging process for the car battery. He says it took about 20% longer 
to charge than it did before the update. Mr W says he accepts that the charging rate of the 
battery may decrease slightly over time meaning the battery would take longer to charge. 
But he has complained there wasnt a gradual impact on the battery  the over the air update 
caused a sudden increase in charging time. 
To put the increase into perspective, Mr W says that it takes 20 minutes longer to 
supercharge the battery from 10% to 85% than before the over the air update. Cars are 
supercharged through designated charging stations that are built by the manufacturer.
Black Horse spoke to the manufacturer franchised dealer and it said Mr Ws battery had 
been checked, no fault had been found and that it was above average. It acknowledged 
that an over the air update had changed the charging profile of the battery management 
system of some cars which could lead to a slight reduction of fast charging peak power. It 
said the update was there to help protect the battery and improve its longevity. 
Black Horse also said it felt the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that 
it couldnt be held liable for any issues that came about following an update from the 
manufacturer. The car had covered around 42,000 miles by the time Black Horse sent its 
final response.  
Mr W wasnt happy with the response so brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
He said he can only conclude the manufacturer identified an issue with certain battery packs 
which is why it decided to reduce the performance. He says the specification and 
performance of the car are no longer the same or similar as to when the car was supplied to 
him. Hes highlighted the manufacturer updated its warranty in 2020 for the model of car that 
he acquired and added in a provision to say any changes to the performance of the battery 
as a result of over the air updates would not be covered under the warranty. But he said this 
provision wasnt in the warranty when he acquired his car. 
Mr W also says the manufacturer doesnt produce promotional material about the charging 
times as far as hes aware. But he says he was told at the point of supply it would take 
around 40 minutes to charge the battery from 20% to 80% on a supercharge and that there 
was free supercharging for life. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She noted thered been no 
fault found with the battery. And also said she didnt think Black Horse could be held liable 
for an issue caused by a manufacturer update. Ultimately as she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to demonstrate the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, 
she didnt make any recommendations.
Mr W doesnt agree. He says its not in dispute the charging time was impacted by the over 
the air update. He says the only conclusion that can be made is the manufacturer found 
certain batteries wouldnt last as long as they were designed to, so it reduced the 
performance. Therefore, he felt the battery wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr W ultimately 
wants the performance of the battery to be put back to how it was before the 2019 update. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
The car was supplied to Mr W under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Our service is 
able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. Black Horse is the supplier of 
the goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr W entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality, fit for their intended purpose, and as described. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In Mr Ws case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 24,500 miles, so thered 
be different expectations than if it was a brand-new car. But its worth pointing out that Mr W 
paid over £50,000 for the car and it was only two years old. So, I dont think he would have 
expected any significant issues shortly after acquiring it.
 
Is Black Horse responsible for issues relating to the manufacturers over the air updates?
As a starting point, Ive thought about whether or not Black Horse can be held liable for any 
issues resulting from the manufacturers updates. Black Horse says it cant be held liable. 
But I dont agree. 
Black Horse supplied Mr W with goods under the hire purchase agreement. But I think its 
fair to say the contract could be classed as mixed because the goods come with digital 
content  they receive regular over the air updates. The over the air updates that Mr W is 
complaining about are not paid for under a separate contract. So, if there are issues as a 
result of the over the air updates, I think Mr W has rights against the supplier  Black Horse. 
Goods to be of satisfactory quality
Mr W says his car needed the over the air update to protect the battery from premature 
failure. So, he says he thinks the battery cant have been of satisfactory quality. From what I can see, the battery seems to have performed as Mr W expected for two years. By this point 
the car was around four years old and had covered around 42,000 miles. 
Aside from what Mr W has said, Ive not been provided any evidence theres a fault with the 
battery. Indeed, the evidence I have been supplied, albeit from a manufacturer franchised 
dealer, indicates Mr Ws battery is without fault and is classed as being above average. 
Ive thought about Mr Ws point that the battery required a significant over the air update to 
protect it from premature failure. I havent been provided evidence from the point of supply 
that says the manufacturer wouldnt be providing these sorts of updates. Like most 
components in a car, batteries do wear with age and require maintenance. And I dont find it 
unusual the manufacturer would seek ways to increase the longevity of the battery  
providing it was still fit for its intended purpose and it met its description. So, I dont think the 
fact an over the air update impacted the car battery charging time in and of itself means the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
For completeness sake, I do agree the original warranty could have been clearer that it 
would not cover situations where noticeable changes to the performance of the battery 
occurred as a result of an over the air update. But I dont think that impacts my decision in 
deciding if theres been a breach of contract.  
Goods to be fit for their intended purpose
I can understand why Mr W is unhappy if his car battery is taking longer to charge. Of 
course, the longer the car battery takes to charge the greater the potential inconvenience. 
So, Ive thought about whether the car was still fit for its intended purpose after the over the 
air update. 
Ive not been told how the normal (non-supercharging) time of the car battery has been 
affected by the over the air update. Mr Ws complaint has focussed on the impact on the 
supercharge time. In his original complaint, he said it took 20 minutes longer to charge from 
10% to 85% after the over the air update. And in his most recent contact with us he said he 
charged the battery from 31% to 80% and it took a total of 52 minutes. Whereas he said the 
car estimated a total charging time of 35 minutes  which is what hed expect. Assuming the 
charging time he referred to was to 80% - a common limit to supercharge to  this is an 
increase of 17 minutes. So, while I can appreciate why Mr W is disappointed with the 
increase in charging time, I dont think the increase is to such an extent to make the car unfit 
for its intended purposes. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I should also point out Ive not seen evidence Mr W gave 
Black Horse or the supplying dealership any specific requirements about the car battery 
charging time when the car was supplied that demonstrate the car is now unsuitable for 
Mr W. Goods to be as described
Ive thought about how the over the air updates can affect Mr Ws complaint. I think its fair to 
say the goods (including digital content) should match the description given at the point of 
supply. The issue in this case, from what I can see, is that its not clear how the goods were 
described. Mr W himself has said theres not much evidence that is available on charging 
times. He says he was told it would take around 40 minutes to charge the battery from 20% 
to 80% on a supercharge. But its hard for me to verify this. Hes also provided some 
literature that says it takes around 30 minutes to replenish half a charge on the model he 
acquired. But Im mindful there seems to be lots of factors that can affect charging times. 
From what I can see, various factors such as the point of the charging cycle, the weather, 
the battery temperature, and the maximum charging rate can all affect the charging time.
Mr W has told us his car is taking longer to charge. And hes provided us with a lot of 
evidence to support this. But I simply dont have the evidence to demonstrate that the goods 
are no longer as described as a result of an over the air update. Of course, Id be willing to 
review anything to the contrary. But I should point out that, given the time thats passed 
since Mr W acquired the car, I think the onus would be on him to demonstrate the car does 
not meet the requirements of the CRA.
Summary
I can understand Mr Ws disappointment. And I think its more likely than not the car battery 
charging time has increased. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont find I have the 
grounds to say theres been a breach of contract here. So, Im not proposing to direct 
Black Horse to take any action. I should also point out that even if I were to find there was a 
breach of contract, I dont think I could fairly direct Black Horse to put Mr Ws car back in to 
the position it was before the 2019 update  which is what he has requested. 
Black Horse hasnt submitted anything further. But Mr W doesnt agree with the decision. He 
reiterated some of the points hes raised before saying hes unhappy the manufacturer wont 
return the car to the original specification. He says the update to the battery was done 
without his permission, and it was done as a result of a fault so he should receive a repair or 
replacement. Hes also sent in some new submissions. I wont go over every point hes 
raised. But, in summary he says:
Theres no such thing as a franchised dealer. The manufacturer sells direct to the 
public and it has galleries and service centres. 
The battery has never been physically inspected.
The manufacturer says that other models can supercharge up to 200 miles in 15 
minutes. 
Hes not complaining the car doesnt meet its specification it was supplied at from 
new. The complaint is that the specification has been changed after purchase without 
consent.  
He has reports from other owners of the same model that have been affected by the 
software update. 
There were legal claims made in the United States of America (USA) and Norway 
which refer to software updates  some of which have been settled.
Different models have had their charging speeds returned to normal. 
Its reasonable to assume that manufacturers wouldnt intentionally update their 
products to reduce performance.
Its not unreasonable for manufacturers to seek ways to increase the longevity of the 
battery, but not at the expense of performance. 
Other companies have been sued as a result of degrading batteries. The type of battery in the car he acquired doesnt require maintenance. The loss of 
performance should be gradual, and not as a result of a software update. 
He acquired the car for use with a supercharger, so the normal charging impact is 
somewhat irrelevant. 
For day to day use he has no need for a car of this range or size. He acquired the car 
as he no longer wanted to fly to destinations and hire a car for his family. Hes used 
the car to travel throughout the UK and Europe, so the extra charging time adds up 
over long journeys. 
Other factors can increase the charging time beyond 20%. 
If 20% was not enough of an impact, what percentage would be?
The cars computer still shows the estimated charging time pre-software update. 
When the car is sold on, he will lose out financially because the car will be worth less 
than through normal depreciation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr W for providing such a detailed response to my provisional decision. Its 
not a clear-cut case. The subject matter is rather unusual. As Mr W pointed out  theres not 
many cars in the UK of the same model he acquired.  Ive considered everything carefully 
but, while I know itll disappoint Mr W, the further submissions havent led me to change my 
mind about the decision. 
Our service is an informal resolution service thats an alternative to the courts. We were set 
up by parliament to resolve certain disputes quickly and with minimum formality. When 
considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Its my role to weigh up the 
evidence submitted by both parties and then reach a determination on what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  
In Mr Ws case, hes provided details of claims brought in the USA and Norway, as well as 
details of certain settlements the manufacturer has agreed to. Hes also pointed towards 
lawsuits of other companies that have been sued for degrading batteries. But Im mindful Ive 
not seen an actual judgment made against the manufacturer of the car Mr W acquired for 
doing something wrong that would be relevant here. Importantly, Ive not been provided any 
evidence relating to UK law  the relevant law I need to bear in mind  that shows the 
manufacturer has acted unfairly or breached UK legislation. So I dont think the cases from 
outside the UK Mr W has referred to are enough to change my mind.  
I accept the battery has never been physically inspected. And it looks like the evidence the 
manufacturer has supplied was obtained remotely. But Ive also accepted its more likely 
than not the batterys charging time has increased. The issue Ive been left to decide is 
whether that constitutes a breach of contract. And for the reasons Ive set out in my 
provisional decision  I dont find I have the grounds to say it does. Ive not been provided evidence the manufacturer cannot provide over the air updates. Or 
that it needs Mr Ws permission every time it does. Given a selling point of the car is that its 
able to receive these sorts of updates, I cant see the manufacturer wouldnt be able to 
provide them. So I dont think theres a breach of contract for the fact its carried out updates. 
Similarly, Ive also not been given evidence that shows the car is no longer as described 
when it was supplied to Mr W. And I also dont think it would be fair to compare the car Mr W 
acquired to other models. 
The difficult decision from what I can see is concluding what would be the tipping point for 
the charging time to become unreasonable, making the car no longer fit for purpose. But 
thats not the decision I need to make here. Im deciding whether Black Horse needs to take 
any action as a result of a breach of contract. Mr W seems to be suggesting that any change 
on the charging time is unfair. But bearing in mind Ive not been provided with details of any 
contractual terms that have been broken, I dont agree. If a manufacturer is able to extend 
the longevity of a component through a reasonable update (providing its allowed to do so) I 
dont think thats a bad thing. And providing the goods are still fit for their intended purpose, 
theres no breach of contract to my mind  which is what I need to decide. 
Mr W has said he acquired the car mainly to use for long trips. And that for day to day use 
he doesnt need a car of this range or size. While I can appreciate the extra minutes will add 
up on a long road trip if he needs to charge the car multiple times, I also have to be mindful 
that the nature of long road trips will mean breaks will need to be taken. Given the maximum 
range of the car, its unlikely Mr W would be required to charge it more than two times in a 
day very often, even on a long road trip. In the grand scheme of things, even for trips around 
the UK and Europe the extra charging time is not going to be overly excessive to my mind. 
Considering everything, I simply dont think the extra charging time means that the goods 
are no longer fit for their intended purpose. 
Mr W has said other factors could mean the charging time would be impacted by more than 
20%. But presumably this would be the case both before and after the over the air update. 
So, again, I dont think this changes my decision. I do, however, agree its frustrating the 
estimated charging time displayed in the car hasnt aligned itself to the actual charging time. 
But I dont see how I can practicably direct Black Horse to do something about this. 
Finally, Mr W has said hell lose out when the car is sold on because the car will be worth 
less than through normal depreciation, as a result of the update to the charging time. Ive not 
been provided with evidence the over the air update has led to Mr Ws car depreciating more 
than it otherwise would have done. I think that prospective purchasers of the car might 
actually be reassured it had received the relevant updates from the manufacturer. So Im not 
going to be making any recommendations on this point either. And, of course, Mr W will still 
have other options available to him should he wish to hand the car back to Black Horse 
where the value of the car isnt relevant  such as through handing the car back at the end of 
the term, or via a voluntary termination process. 
In summary, its clear Mr W feels very strongly about this. And I do appreciate theres a level 
of inconvenience thats been caused by extending the charging time. It would be unfair to 
disregard that. And it must be frustrating that other models have been returned to their 
original specification and not this one. But as I dont believe theres sufficient evidence of a 
breach of contract for Mr Ws particular case, I dont have the grounds to direct Black Horse 
to take any action. I should point out that Mr W is of course free to pursue the complaint 
through the courts where, unlike at our service, witnesses can be cross-examined and sworn 
evidence taken. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman