DRN-4130397
The complaint
Mr M complains that he asked to voluntarily terminate his car finance agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS). 
They didnt action this and have since been chasing him to pay the final balloon payment 
on the hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
What follows is a brief outline of the circumstances of the complaint. There have been claims 
and counter claims by both parties, and further details provided. Below is my summary of the 
situation, but I want to assure both parties that Ive ready all of the communications and 
information they have sent in. Im summarising things below and commenting on the key 
points to this dispute, as per the remit of our service. 
In January 2016 Mr M acquired a car through a 4 year hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
The agreement was due to end in February 2020. In January 2020, Mr M informed VWFS 
that he wished to exercise his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. There is dispute 
around exactly when during January this request was made, which I will discuss in my 
findings. 
VWFS didnt confirm receipt of this or issue any instructions about this, but they did make 
attempts to recover the vehicle. They passed Mr Ms contact details to their collection agents 
and both the agents and VWFS made numerous attempts over the following months and 
years to contact him via various communication methods (phone calls, text messages, 
letters) to arrange collection of the car. They were unable to arrange this with Mr M and were 
unable to recover the car.
Instead, they told Mr M that he should pay the balloon payment as he had not returned the 
car. When Mr M complained, VWFS responded in June 2022 not upholding his complaint. 
They declined collecting the car and advised Mr M to pay the balloon payment by selling the 
car if necessary. 
They did say they would cover any insurance or road tax costs incurred by Mr M for the 
Covid impacted period of March/April/May 2020 when their collection agents were unable to 
collect the car, provided he provided them with proof of these costs being paid, but they 
declined to pay any storage costs Mr M wanted to charge them. 
 Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to our service in August 2022. An 
investigator here upheld the complaint in part, saying that VWFS should have processed the 
voluntary termination Mr M had requested, so they should take the car back now as Mr M 
had correctly asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement. But they felt that VWFS had 
made reasonable attempts to contact Mr M to arrange to collect the car, so did not agree 
that Mr M should be refunded any insurance or road tax costs since January 2020, or that 
VWFS should have to pay him any storage costs which he was claiming from them. 
VWFS accepted this view and asked that if he accepted it, Mr M make the car available for 
collection immediately. However, Mr M didnt agree with the view. He said that this view 
ignored a problem he had with a missed payment in 2020 which VWFS had requested even 
though he felt he had already voluntarily terminated, and he had reluctantly paid. 
He also queried some of the dates given in the investigator view wanting to correct them, he 
said he had never requested road tax to be refunded, only insurance and storage costs. He 
made other points regarding the fact that he asked for written communications from VWFS 
but often did not receive this which he feels is unfair. He said that he wrote and asked VWFS 
to give him 7 days notice of collection, but they didnt respond to this. Finally, he made 
further points about how he felt the costs were unfair on him when he had another car he 
was paying for. 
The case has therefore been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
There are two main issues involved here, and these are where I will focus. The 
communication between the parties has broken down, and both parties take some blame for 
this. But fundamentally, the issues involved are:
1. whether Mr M had asked to voluntary terminate the agreement and whether VWFS 
carried this out correctly. 
2. the fact the car has not been returned to VWFS still, why this is the case, and what 
costs should be borne by each party for this. 
With regards to the voluntary termination, I agree with our investigator that VWFS are at fault 
here. Mr M has said that he tried to terminate the agreement by phone on Saturday 11 
January, but the phone lines were closed, and he then spoke to someone at VWFS on 
Monday 13 January 2020 to ask to terminate the agreement. There should have been a 
payment due by direct debit on 13 January 2020 but it appears this wasnt made. 
He has complained that VWFS later chased him for a missed payment, and he felt 
pressured to pay it as it was reporting as missed on his credit file. The first written 
notification of his desire for voluntary termination was provided on 28 January 2020. 
Ive thought about this, and I dont agree with Mr M that having to pay this missing payment 
of £738 was unfair. The notes on VWFS contact system confirm they had spoken to him on 
13 January 2020 about processing the hand back of the vehicle. This would seem to 
suggest a belief by the call handler that Mr M was just arranging to hand the car back at the 
end of the agreement, which would be more common in these circumstances, rather than 
processing a voluntary termination (VT) and ending the agreement just before it was due to 
end anyway. This is wrong however, and we have seen the evidence that Mr M did in fact want to end the agreement early via a VT. 
Ive gone on to think about the £738 monthly payment VWFS told Mr M was in arrears. As 
this payment was due on the first possible day that Mr M had asked for a VT of the 
agreement, 13 January 2020, its not reasonable for him not to have to pay this. All 
payments would be due until Mr M had confirmation that the agreement had been terminated 
and this could not have happened by the 13 January, as the first call he made and spoke to 
VWFS about VT was on this date. 
He would still have had to complete paperwork and sign to confirm he wanted to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement. So, Im satisfied that it was fair for VWFS to expect him to make  
that missed payment, which he did.  Mr M has said he tried to call on Saturday 11th but the 
phone lines were closed; Im still satisfied that even if he had been able to speak to someone 
on the Saturday, the VT could not have been carried out before that payment was due on 13 
January 2020, so it still should have been paid. 
With regards to ending the agreement more generally, its clear that VWFS have 
misunderstood or ignored Mr Ms requests for a VT of the agreement. This was likely to be 
because Mr M was almost at the end of his agreement anyway, and VWFS appear to have 
assumed he was just discussing returning the car at the end of his agreement, rather than a 
VT. 
However, he sent the request for a VT by recorded delivery to them which they received on 
29 January 2020, so they should have followed this up and processed a VT. This didnt 
happen. 
When a car is voluntarily terminated, it needs to be returned to the finance provider. I can 
see numerous attempts by VWFS to contact Mr M to ask him to arrange the return of the 
car. Included in these are letters with phone numbers for him to call and arrange this. Mr M 
has said he wanted to deal with this in writing, and that he told VWFS they could collect it 
anytime provided they gave him seven days notice. 
I dont agree that this is reasonable by Mr M. VWFS have a process in place whereby they 
hand over the collection and checking of the car for damage and excess mileage to a third 
party company, and Mr M chose not to respond to the letters/texts or phone calls from either 
VWFS or the third party collection company, to arrange collection. It would be Mr Ms 
responsibility to respond to communications from the relevant parties to arrange for the car 
to be returned. 
Its not fair for Mr M to decide he will only communicate in writing to arrange collection. 
Provided that the business is being reasonable with their requests, I cant see why Mr M 
wouldnt have called the phone number to arrange collection. I am satisfied VWFS were 
being reasonable here and have seen no evidence as to why Mr M should feel the need to 
only deal with them in writing. Indeed, there are occasions where Mr M calls VWFS to 
discuss issues or ask questions regarding his agreement, including in the years after the 
agreement ended, so I see no reason why he could not have arranged the vehicle collection 
with them by calling them as requested. 
By the end of March 2020, this meant the car had not been collected when the Covid 
pandemic began, and the country was locked down. VWFS were unable to collect the car 
during this period, but Mr M had already had several weeks to make contact with them at 
that point to have arranged the collection. I can see no reasonable reason why he chose not 
to do this, especially as he has told us he didnt want the car as he had already started an 
agreement for a new car, and he felt the need to try to charge VWFS storage fees whilst it 
wasnt being collected. It's unclear what went wrong and why after this period. VWFS have said that they had to 
appoint a different collection agent later in 2020 due to covid policies and procedures at the 
first agent. Initially I can see from the VWFS contact notes that VWFS attempted to make 
contact several times about the collection, but then this appears to have stopped later in 
2020. Then in 2021 Mr M made contact about payments owing on an annual statement and 
it looks like the return of the car was discussed, and the call handler at VWFS attempted to 
hand him across to another team to discuss this but for reasons which arent clear, this didnt 
appear to happen. At some point, it also seems VWFS had changed to noting the balloon 
payment outstanding rather than the collection being overdue. 
But theres no further evidence of communications between the parties until Mr M raises a 
complaint to VWFS in May 2022. I dont think this is reasonable behaviour from either party. 
VWFS should have been chasing this up to resolve the issue of collection or payment much 
more quickly, whether they had believed this was a voluntary termination or not. And if Mr M 
wanted to return the car, Id have expected to see evidence of him trying to contact them to 
do this. 
However, this doesnt make it fair for Mr M to charge storage fees to VWFS for the car 
remaining at his property. He had been sent all the relevant information to make contact to 
get the car collected but hasnt done so. If he felt the car was taking up space at his 
property, requiring him to charge for its storage, Id have expected to see efforts from him to 
contact VWFS in 2020 and 2021 to ask them to collect it. By 2022, when he complained, 
VWFS had decided they didnt want the car back and were asking for the balloon payment to 
be made instead. 
Unfortunately, I dont believe either party have acted fairly here. VWFS seem to have lost 
track of Mr Ms account and circumstances, possibly due to the strains the pandemic caused 
on their business. Whilst I have empathy with this, it wasnt Mr Ms fault that this happened. 
But equally, Mr M could have called VWFS at any point from January 2020 to arrange the 
collection of the car but appears not to have done so. If insurance costs/storage 
costs/upkeep costs on the car were a concern to him, I would have expected to see 
evidence of him making more effort to contact VWFS to try to resolve the situation. I havent 
seen this. 
VWFS have said in their FRL that they dont want the car back and instead want Mr M to pay 
the balloon payment to keep the car. But this isnt fair, because Mr M chose to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement before the balloon payment was due, so should never have even 
had the option to make the balloon payment from that point. VWFS didnt action that VT 
correctly, so I am satisfied that the only fair outcome to this now is for them to take the car 
back and process the agreement as having been voluntarily terminated. 
Alongside this, because VWFS have not made any concerted effort since March 2020 to 
recover the car, I am satisfied that the fact the car will now be considerably older and may 
not be roadworthy or have an MOT is not Mr Ms fault. Id expect VWFS to carefully consider 
any potential damage charges when they do get the car back, to take into consideration the 
additional time that the car has been sat without being collected. Having said this, Mr M has 
told us he hasnt used it since the agreement ended.
However, I dont agree with Mr M that he should be refunded any insurance costs or paid 
any storage costs. Whilst VWFS are at fault for not following up the collection of the car after 
the initial lockdown period of the pandemic, Mr M also had ample opportunity to arrange the 
collection with them in February and March 2020, and Ive seen no evidence of him 
engaging with them when they sent letters or called him about this. Ive not seen evidence of 
any occasions where Mr M has tried to arrange collection and not been able to do this.   Alongside this, Ive seen no evidence of Mr M calling VWFS after that initial lockdown period 
of the pandemic or engaging with them in any way to get the car collected. Id expect to have 
seen Mr M try to mitigate his losses with regards to any insurance or storage costs by 
making more effort to speak to VWFS and to return the car, but theres no evidence of this 
happening. 
As such, I agree with the investigator outcome here. It would be fair for VWFS to process the 
VT Mr M requested in January 2020 and to collect the car. They will also need to correct any 
adverse data regarding this agreement on Mr Ms credit file, including removing the debt for 
the balloon payment. In light of this, I think paying Mr M £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience the impact on his credit file may have caused him is also fair. 
But I dont agree with Mr M that he should receive refunds for insurance or storage costs or 
any further payments. Whilst VWFS have not acted fairly when failing to correctly end his 
agreement, Mr M can also be said to have not acted fairly when he hasnt engaged with 
them to arrange collection of the car. As such, I am satisfied that any insurance payments he 
has made are through his own choice not to try to return the car, and it isnt fair to expect 
VWFS to make payments for the storage of the car at his property.    
Putting things right
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services need to do the following:
- Process the agreement as having been voluntarily terminated by Mr M on 29 January 
2020. 
- Collect the car at no cost to Mr M (recognising that it may not be roadworthy or have 
a valid MOT or road tax at this stage and should not be expected to have these).
- Correct any adverse data with credit reference agencies relating to this agreement. 
- Pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by any issues with Mr Ms 
credit file/credit score.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding this complaint. I instruct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to put things right by carrying out 
the actions I set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman