DRN-4273033
The complaint
Mr T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
 
What happened
Mr T was looking to purchase a vehicle. He found an apparently suitable one on the 
marketplace of a well-known social media website.
He contacted the seller. It said that it would deliver the vehicle to him with a five-day money 
back guarantee.
The price of the vehicle was significantly lower than other comparable vehicles. The seller 
said this was because the vehicle was acquired from people in bankruptcy at a significantly 
lower price.
Mr T said that he looked up the company name he was given and could see it was 
legitimate. He also carried out various other checks on the vehicle  such as checking 
whether it had outstanding finance and a valid MOT.
Finally, before deciding to go ahead with the purchase and seemingly due to having some 
doubts about the legitimacy of the sale, he visited a branch of a different bank. He says that 
staff at that bank told him to ensure that the name on the account matched the one that he 
was given. 
Mr T offered to collect the vehicle but the seller said this wasnt possible due to the 
pandemic. Unfortunately, the vehicle didnt arrive as promised and Mr T realised that hed 
been scammed. 
He reported the matter to Monzo. It said that it wasnt responsible for his loss. It said that it 
had done enough to warn him when he was making the payment and that he hadnt carried 
out enough checks before going ahead. It also said that it had tried to recover Mr Ts money, 
but had been unsuccessful. 
Mr T referred the matter to our service. The Investigator noted that Monzo has agreed to 
adhere to the principles of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which means that it should refund Mr T in full in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. The Investigator thought that the price that Mr T had paid was just too good 
to be true and, although the other bank had told him to ensure that the name on the account 
matched the one that hed been given, the name he was given did not match the name of 
the business he thought he was dealing with.
The Investigator also thought that Monzo hadnt met its standards as a firm under the CRM 
Code as it hadnt provided an Effective Warning. So, the Investigator recommended that Mr 
T be reimbursed 50% of his loss. They also thought that Monzo ought to have found the 
payment Mr T made to be sufficiently unusual and suspicious that it should have intervened 
before it was made. And, had it done so, the scam would have been prevented.
 
I know that Mr T has previously expressed disagreement with this resolution but hasnt made 
any more recent or specific submissions. 
Monzo didnt agree. In summary it said:
-The payment wasnt that unusual and customers often make the occasional large 
payment.
-It wouldnt be possible for it to flag every large payment. 
-The suggestion that the warning wasnt Effective because it didnt mention car 
purchase scams was unfair  its not possible for a warning to cover off every 
scenario. 
-The warning Mr T did see should have been enough to make him think again about 
the purchase.
-The warning was viewed for a very short amount of time and Mr T wouldnt have 
been able to read it in that time.
In advance of a final decision, I asked our Investigator to contact both parties and let them 
know that I didnt intend to conclude that Monzo should have discussed the payment with Mr 
T before it debited his account. I didnt think the payment was sufficiently unusual. So, I said 
that, should the complaint be upheld on other grounds, Id ask Monzo to pay interest from 
the date it declined his claim under the CRM Code, rather than the date of the payment.
Mr T didnt provide any further submissions on this point. Monzo reiterated that it thought 
that the warning it provided had met the definition of Effective under the CRM Code and 
that there was no requirement on it to provide a warning which was tailored to the exact type 
of scam its customer might be falling victim to.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr T is responsible for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But, as already set out, Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the CRM Code. So, 
Ive considered whether Mr T should be reimbursed in full or in part by Monzo under its 
provisions. 
The CRM Code allows Monzo to decline reimbursement if it can demonstrate (as far as is 
relevant to this complaint) that Mr T:
-Ignored an Effective Warning; and/or
-Made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the sale of goods 
was legitimate
I think that Monzo can rely on the second exception to reimbursement, so I dont need to 
consider both.
Ive first noted that Mr T found the car advertised on a platform where it is difficult to verify 
the authenticity or reputation of a seller. There is certainly no payment, or other, protection.
So, I think Mr T ought to have been cautious from the outset and wary of anything which 
seemed too good to be true. The price here was. It wasnt a little lower than he might have 
found elsewhere. It was somewhere between a third and a quarter of the market value. I dont think the explanation given for this would plausibly justify such a significant discount. 
The price also seemed to include free delivery  adding further cost to the seller for an 
already heavily discounted price. 
When the seller said that they could not arrange a viewing of the car, I think Mr T should 
have really questioned the legitimacy of the sale. It appears that he did have doubts  thats 
what led him to go to the branch of another bank. I dont know exactly what was said during 
that conversation but some of the advice that Mr T received  to ensure that the account 
name matched  doesnt appear to have been followed. Not only did Mr T put the account 
name as a business which had no connection with the business he was apparently dealing 
with, but he received a message to show that the name on the account could not be 
matched. 
Overall, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr T, I think Monzo can fairly rely on one 
of the exceptions to reimbursement  that he made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for believing that the seller was legitimate.
But Monzo also have obligations under the CRM Code and, as a matter of good practice, it 
should be on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions which indicate that its 
customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. As I explained earlier, I dont think this 
payment was so unusual or significant that Monzo ought to have questioned it before it left 
Mr Ts account. But I do think, and Monzo recognised, there was a potential APP scam risk 
in the payment journey and therefore it ought to have provided warnings (which it did).
The first, more general, warning said:
Could this payment be to someone trying to scam you? If you have any doubts (for example 
you dont personally know the recipient), get some advice. Bear in mind that once you make 
a payment its almost impossible for us to get it back.
A further warning was provided after Mr T gave the reason for the payment. That warning 
read:
Stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam
Bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at higher risk of fraud
Bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments
Pay by card if you can 
You might not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam. Find a 
legitimate seller who lets you pay by card.
After Mr T chose to continue with the payment, a second window would have appeared, 
which made it even clearer that Monzo would be unlikely to recover funds which are sent as 
part of a scam. 
In order for a warning to be Effective under the CRM Code. It must, as a minimum be: clear, 
specific, understandable, timely and impactful.I accept that Monzo needs to strike a balance between its warnings being impactful and 
specific. A warning cannot cover off every eventuality (at least not without a longer payment 
journey).
But a warning of this nature can still highlight some of the key features of a scam of this 
nature  prices that are significantly lower than market value and the inability to view a 
product before buying it. 
I think that a reasonable person reading the warning would only understand that there was a 
heightened risk of fraud from purchasing something online using a bank transfer. I 
understand that many legitimate purchases happen in this way and sometimes (particularly 
for higher value items) it wont always be possible to pay by card.
In my view, the warning lacks overall impact  it fails to bring alive some of the key features 
of purchase scams or highlight the key risks. So, I dont think it was an Effective Warning.
I also need to consider whether Monzos failure to provide an Effective Warning could have 
had a material impact on preventing the scam. Monzo argue that Mr T viewed the warning 
for such a short amount of time that he cant have properly considered what it meant. The 
suggestion is that, even if a different warning had been shown, he wouldnt have read it. But 
I dont think this is fair. I can see that he viewed the warning for around seven seconds. I 
think this is long enough to read and understand a few lines of short text. 
That means that I dont think Monzo met its standards as a firm and liability for the loss 
should be shared between Mr T and Monzo. I think Monzo should also pay Mr T interest at 
8% simple per annum from the date it declined his claim under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo did what it ought to have done to try and recover Mr 
Ts money. I can see that the firm which received Mr Ts money has confirmed those funds 
were removed before the matter was reported, so I dont think any action by Monzo could 
have led to the recovery of Mr Ts money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold in part this complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd and 
instruct it to pay Mr T:
-50% of the money lost - £1,900
-Interest on that amount at 8% simple per annum from the date it declined Mr Ts 
claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman