DRN-3634740
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, defaulted his accounts 
at the end of Covid-19 payment holiday rather than providing ongoing financial assistance.
What happened
Mr M found himself struggling to meet the contractual monthly payments required on his two 
Barclays credit accounts because of the financial impact of Covid-19. He contacted Barclays 
about this and was granted a three-month payment holiday in April 2020. A further three-
month payment-holiday was granted to Mr M in July 2020, which ran until October 2020.
Following the end of the second payment-holiday, Mr M contacted Barclays and explained 
that his financial position remained difficult and offered Barclays token payments of £1 per 
month on each of his accounts. 
Barclays completed an assessment of Mr Ms income and expenditure with him at that time 
which confirmed that Mr M wouldnt be able to resume making the contractual payments on 
his accounts. But because the combined outstanding balances on Mr Ms two accounts was 
approximately £30,000, Barclays werent willing to accept the £1 token payments offered by 
Mr M, and instead began proceedings to default the accounts  which subsequently took 
place in January 2021. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ms complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr M 
in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Mr M by defaulting his accounts as they had, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance 
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were 
experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of 
financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included 
that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays 
to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who 
benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so, 
although interest would continue to accrue on an account during a payment holiday.
When Mr M spoke with Barclays in April 2020 and explained his financial circumstances to 
them, he was granted such a payment-holiday under the terms as outlined by the FCA. And 
when that payment holiday ended in July 2020, Mr M was granted a second such payment 
holiday. This followed further guidance issued by the FCA that second payment holidays 
should be granted to consumers who continued to be in financial difficulty because of the 
impact of Covid-19 after their first payment holiday had ended.
In November 2020, the FCA published continuing guidance about how businesses should 
look to treat consumers who continued to remain in financial difficulty after their second 
payment holiday had ended. This guidance didnt include any provision for a third payment 
holiday but did instruct businesses to provide ongoing tailored support where appropriate.
Mr M feels that by defaulting his account as they did, Barclays didnt adhere to this tailored 
support guidance, and that they should instead have accepted a lower monthly repayment 
offer from him on a temporary basis. I can appreciate Mr Ms position here, but the tailored 
support guidance isnt to be read in isolation, but rather is complementary to the existing and 
ongoing obligations on credit providers such as Barclays surrounding account holders who 
cant afford to make the contractual repayments due on their accounts.
For instance, where a credit provider feels its unlikely that an account holder will be able to 
recover the position of their account within a reasonable period of time, that credit provider 
has an obligation to default that account as soon as possible. One reason for this is because 
the act of default stops the accrual of further charges and interest and freezes the balance 
outstanding, so that the account holder doesnt continue to fall further and further into debt.
The tailored support guidance issued by the FCA in November 2020 makes it clear that 
businesses such as Barclays should seek to understand whether any financial difficulties 
currently being experienced by an account holder are likely to be temporary, such that the 
account holder will in all likelihood be able to resume making the contractual monthly 
payments required on an account in the near future. And the guidance stipulates that if it is 
felt that an account holder will soon be able to resume payments, then some form of tailored 
support should be provided to that account holder so that they can make it through the 
temporary period where they cant meet the contractual payments on the account until the 
point that they can. 
But having assessed Mr Ms financial position following the end of the second payment 
holiday, Barclays didnt feel that it was likely that Mr M would be able to resume making the 
contractual monthly payments required on the account within a reasonable period of time. In 
such circumstances it would be expected that Barclays would have moved to quickly default 
the accounts as they did, in line with their obligations as previously explained. And it must be 
noted that it isnt the case that the tailored support guidance issued by Barclays stipulates 
that credit providers must provide temporary tailored support measures indefinitely, such that 
the defaulting of an account should never occur.
Upon consideration, I find it difficult to reach a different conclusion as to Mr Ms financial 
outlook in November 2020 that the one reached by Barclays here. Reasons for this include 
that the income and expenditure assessment Barclays conducted with Mr M confirmed that 
his financial position remained strained, and also that Mr M had described to Barclays how 
his sources of income had been, and continued to be, affected by the impact of Covid-19.
Indeed, Mr M has confirmed to this service that his main source of income was via event 
venue hire, which was severely impacted by the social restrictions put in place because of 
Covid-19, and that in the long term he has lost approximately 50% of subscribing venues, 
with a significant number of those having ceased trading. 
As such, I dont feel that Barclays did act unfairly towards Mr M by defaulting his accounts 
when they did, and this is because I feel that Mr Ms financial circumstances when he spoke with Barclays in November 2020 werent suggestive that he would in all likelihood be able to 
recover his financial position within a reasonable period of time such that some form of 
alternative temporary tailored support should have been offered.
Im aware that Mr M is also unhappy that Barclays continued to charge interest on the 
account balances during the time of the payment holiday periods, especially as this accrued 
interest led to the balances of the accounts exceeding the credit limits. However, as 
previously explained, the payment holidays were provided under terms stipulated by the 
FCA, which included that interest would continue to accrue, and so I dont feel that I can 
reasonably censure Barclays for continuing to apply interest to the accounts as they did.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, and I can sympathise with the difficult 
position that he found himself in here. But as I hope Ive been able to explain clearly above, I 
dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards him as he feels is the case, but rather I 
feel that Barclays were acting in alignment with their obligations as a credit provider. 
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any 
further action. I hope Mr M will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman