DRN-2928648
The complaint
Mr M complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, trading as More Th>n, (More Th>n) 
refused to renew his motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 9 February 2021, More Th>n wrote to Mr M to say it wasnt able to renew his policy and 
itd expire at midnight on 12 March 2021. The letter confirmed this was due to a change in its 
underwriting rules and guidelines rather than any adverse experience on Mr Ms policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M raised a complaint with More Th>n. It didnt uphold his complaint. It 
explained the decision not to offer cover was reached in line with its
pricing structures and risk appetite. The case handler contacted Mr M to explain the legal 
assistance plan covers the recovery of any uninsured losses following a non-fault motor 
claim as well as other things but that a claim against More Th>n for deciding not to renew 
the policy wasnt something which it could be used for. He also explained conflicts of interest 
would always be checked too before legal assistance was provided.
Mr M remained unhappy and contacted his local member of parliament (MP) to support him. 
In March 2021, the MP got in touch with More Th>n for a clearer explanation of its 
reasoning. More Th>n replied to the MP in May to explain that, due to a rapid increase in 
catalytic convertor theft for this type of vehicle, and particularly in Mr Ms region, it had made 
an alteration to its underwriting criteria. This meant the combination of Mr Ms car in his area 
was no longer a risk it was willing to cover. And this was the same for new and renewing 
customers. Finally, More Th>n explained that when Mr M tried to use the legal assistance 
plan against More Th>n, he was told this wouldnt be possible due to a conflict of interest. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He says hed held a motor insurance policy with 
More Th>n for over 50 years without making any claims. So he feels More Th>n has acted 
unlawfully - basing its decision not to renew his policy on his age - and used delaying tactics 
to force him to take insurance elsewhere.
Our investigator explained that, because insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, an 
insurer is able to decide what risks it wants to cover. As this is a commercial decision, it isnt 
something our service can ordinarily interfere with because its not our role to tell More Th>n 
whether it should accept a particular risk. Instead, what we can do is consider whether more 
Th>n have acted in line with its processes and treated Mr M in the same way as it would any 
other customer in the same position. Having done so, she concluded More Th>n hadnt 
treated Mr M unfairly in deciding this was a risk it didnt cover moving forward. 
Mr M was dissatisfied by this outcome. He felt More Th>n refused to renew because of his 
age which was illegal. And mentioned his legal assistance cover was cancelled before it 
shouldve come to an end, referring to a screenshot which showed that his login to the site 
had expired. Our investigator communicated with Mr M about these points and confirmed 
this didnt change her view. In particular, she confirmed:
-The decision not to renew Mr Ms policy wasnt based on age related factors.
- The screenshot of the legal assistance log in screen confirms that Mr Ms log in 
details to the site had expired - not that his cover had been cancelled. And she hadnt 
seen any evidence to suggest this had happened.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here and I think shes explained matters clearly and thoroughly so theres little for me to add 
to what has already been said. I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and explain why below. 
Its up to each individual insurer which risks they choose to take on, at what price and on 
what terms. Insurers set out the risks theyre willing to take in underwriting guidance and this 
guidance then forms the basis on which applications for cover and renewals are considered. 
Our service wouldnt normally question this so long as it does this fairly and treats all 
consumers in the same situation in the same way.
The same principles apply where an insurer has changed its view of the degree of risk 
attached to, for example, certain types of cars or certain areas or the combination of these 
together. It may be that the insurer isnt willing to continue to cover the risk they present or 
the risk they present has changed and its no longer something the insurer covers. But, as it 
does this fairly and treats all consumers in the same situation in the same way, our service 
wouldnt usually interfere with this.
More Th>n has shared some confidential information with us that shows its underwriting 
criteria and why Mr M didnt meet it at renewal. Im afraid I cant share that information with 
Mr M because its business sensitive and confidential. However, Id like to reassure him that 
Im satisfied it was fairly applied to his circumstances and related to the type of car and 
location as outlined by More Th>n in its letter to Mr Ms MP. And Ive seen no evidence More 
Th>n made this decision based on Mr Ms age. More Th>n has also explained the premium 
was calculated automatically with no manual intervention and both new and renewing 
customers with the same risk details would be treated in the same way. So, Im satisfied that 
More Th>n treated Mr M in the same way as it would any of its other customers in similar 
circumstances. 
It follows that Im satisfied More Th>ns refusal to renew Mr Ms cover wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable. 
I appreciate it must have been troublesome for Mr M to have to change insurers, especially 
after such a long time with More Th>n. However, contracts like this, for car insurance cover, 
last a year and theres no guarantee the insurer will offer further cover. This is the case even 
where the consumer has been a long standing, exemplary customer. 
I can see the legal assistance cover didnt cover him for this particular issue with More Th>n 
and he wasnt able to log in to the relevant website as his log in details had expired. But I 
havent seen any evidence that his legal assistance cover expired before his car insurance 
policy ran out.Im also aware Mr M feels More Th>n purposefully delayed matters. I dont see things quite 
the same. More Th>n had 8 weeks to handle Mr Ms complaint which wouldve ended after 
the policy was due to expire and it responded to him within this time.
Finally, I note Mr M has raised issues with his no claims discount which our investigator has 
sought to clarify for him. However, as she explained, this isnt a matter which has been 
raised with More Th>n. If Mr M still has concerns, he needs to raise them with More Th>n in 
the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman