DRN-1567959
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr A in 2002 in connection with 
a mortgage. The policy provided Mr A with cover if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr As needs?
Did Santander give Mr A the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr A 
is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive concluded Mr As PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr A says he was put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that he wasnt given a proper 
choice. He says Santander told him he had to buy the policy to get the mortgage he wanted. 
Ive noted everything he's said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Mr A and Santander when the policy was sold.Santander hasnt been able to provide much documentation from the time of the sale, 
as these events happened many years ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar to some 
other cases Ive seen.
In the absence of anything else to support what Mr A has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Santander didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Santander accepts that it advised Mr A to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-           Mr A was eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions.
-           Mr A says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, and that he had considerable savings. Mr A has helpfully provided 
evidence of the savings he had, and I accept that these would've allowed him to cover his 
mortgage payments for longer than the policy paid out for. So I can see why Mr A might 
consider the PPI wasn't of any use to him. But I'm mindful that Mr A would've had other 
expenses to cover (in addition to his mortgage) if he was off work sick or made redundant. 
The policy would've meant Mr A could use his savings to pay for those other expenses while 
he wasn't working. And it would've paid out in addition to his employer benefits. The policy 
cost about £28 a month and would've covered the mortgage repayments while Mr A wasn't 
working. Keeping in mind the consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on his home, I 
think the policy would've provided a useful benefit to Mr A, despite his existing 
arrangements.
-           Mr A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr A before he 
agreed to buy it. But Mr A took out the policy knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
It seems the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr A would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told Im not persuaded the PPI was mis-sold. Which 
means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr 
A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
 
What the business needs to do Santander should pay back to Mr A the extra he paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay Mr 
A 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he 
doesn't pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Santander UK plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasn't already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman