DRN-3703166
The complaint
Mrs C bought a phone using a fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica UK Limited trading 
as O2 (Telefonica). She has complained about the way it handled things when she decided 
to return the phone within the cooling off period.  
What happened
Mrs C contacted Telefonica in November 2021 to enquire about upgrading her phone. She 
decided to upgrade and buy a new phone using a credit agreement with Telefonica. But to 
do that, she needed to settle another credit agreement, also with Telefonica, that she was 
paying in relation to her old phone that shed bought in March 2020. The early settlement 
totalled around £325. Ill refer to the original agreement as agreement 1 and the newer 
agreement as agreement 2. 
Telefonica delivered the phone to Mrs C. But she was disappointed with it and decided to 
return it under a 14 day change your mind policy. Mrs C expected to be put back in the 
position she was in before buying the new phone and was disappointed when she found out 
agreement 1 wasnt going to be reinstated. Nor was she going to receive a refund of the 
£325. 
Mrs C complained to Telefonica. And she also complained about the service it was 
providing, the lack of call backs and the wait times to speak to it over the phone. Telefonica 
responded to say it wasnt in its sales script to tell customers they wouldnt be able to 
reinstate an old agreement. And that its terms and conditions set out open credit agreements 
need to be settled before customers can take out a new credit agreement. It said it wasnt 
obligated to specify any early repayment of an agreement is non-refundable. But it did 
acknowledge Mrs C wasnt called back when promised, so it paid her £25 compensation. It 
looks like it also agreed to reduce Mrs Cs airtime cost. 
Mrs C says she was told she would have been informed her early settlement couldnt be 
unwound had she carried out the sale face to face in store. So she is unhappy and thinks 
she was treated differently as she carried out the purchase at a distance. 
One of our investigators looked into things but thought Telefonica had done enough to put 
things right. She couldnt see there was anything in the terms and conditions that would 
enable Mrs C to unwind the settlement of agreement 1. She said if this was important to 
Mrs C she could have asked, but she didnt think Telefonica was required to tell her this. And 
she thought the compensation for the service failings was fair. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She reiterated she should have been given the same service as if shed 
have gone into the store. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs complaint relates to how Telefonica dealt with the settlement of agreement 1 and the 
selling of agreement 2. These are regulated consumer credit agreements and our service is 
able to deal with complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Ive first thought about the terms and conditions of the agreements. Ive seen nothing in 
agreement 1 that says an early settlement of the agreement can be unwound. I dont find 
this unusual. Ive also seen nothing in section 9 (Right of Withdrawal/Cooling-Off) of 
agreement 2 saying that either. So as a starting point, I dont think Telefonica is failing to 
offer something it should do as per the terms of one of the agreements. 
Ive next thought about the conversation Mrs C had when she spoke to Telefonica about 
buying a new phone. Unfortunately, the phone call isnt available, but it doesnt seem to be in 
dispute Telefonica didnt tell Mrs C she couldnt unwind the early settlement of agreement 1. 
So did it act unfairly when it failed to do this?
In addition to setting out the high-level standards firms are meant to follow, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance firms should adhere to when certain 
agreements are brokered. And there are also rules and guidance for firms to follow when 
carrying out other activities involving debt advice and debt adjusting. In Mrs Cs case, it 
seems that shes not unhappy with how agreement 2 was brokered. She was able to return 
the phone bought under that agreement with 14 days, and the agreement was ended as 
expected. So I dont find there was a failing in how agreement 2 was brokered. 
Moreover, I dont think Telefonica was advising Mrs C as such in relation to the early 
settlement of agreement 1. It seems like the agreement needed to be paid off in order for 
Mrs C to be able to take out agreement 2. But I dont find theres guidance I can point 
towards that Telefonica ignored by not telling Mrs C the early settlement couldnt be 
unwound. 
I sympathise with Mrs C. She tells us she wouldnt have entered into agreement 2 had she 
been told she couldnt unwind the early settlement if she was unhappy with the new phone. 
And she also tells us this is what she would have been told had she carried out the sale face 
to face in the store. Telefonica hasnt confirmed to our service this is what wouldve 
happened in store. And Im mindful there may be slightly different requirements for firms 
when carrying out transactions on business premises as opposed to at a distance. But in any 
event, the complaint I need to consider is about how Telefonica did treat Mrs C. And based 
on what Ive said above, I dont consider there are grounds to say Telefonica unfairly failed 
to tell Mrs C she couldnt unwind the early settlement. The terms and conditions dont 
provide for this. And while I can see why it wouldve been helpful had it told her, theres not 
something I can clearly point towards in relevant rules or guidance that says Telefonica has 
acted unfairly. 
However, it also doesnt seem to be in dispute that Telefonica didnt call back Mrs C when 
promised. I can understand this mustve been frustrating. I think its offer of £25 in recognition 
of that is fair in all the circumstances. 
While I know itll disappoint Mrs C, Im not making any other directions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 has done enough to put things 
right for Mrs C. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman