DRN-3457922
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva), with whom he holds a 
Section 32 pension policy, failed to help him plan for his retirement. He says they gave him 
insufficient information about his plan bonuses. And that they unfairly allocated those 
bonuses. He also feels that it is unfair that he would be required to engage the services of a 
financial adviser if he decides to transfer his pension away from Aviva. 
What happened
Mr P took out a Section 32 buy-out plan with Aviva in 1988. This was invested in a with-
profits fund. The plan had a selected retirement date at the end of January 2023. And 
contained a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). If the plan didnt generate sufficient value 
to fund the GMP then Mr P would have no option but to take his pension benefits through 
Aviva at his retirement date. But if the plans value was big enough to cover the GMP, Mr P 
would be able to transfer his plan to another provider at retirement. 
In 2018, I understand that Mr P complained to Aviva about final bonus on his policy. Aviva 
confirmed that the final bonus was currently 10%, but that it wasnt guaranteed and could 
change at any time. They also confirmed that the extra bonus applied to existing bonuses 
and not the guaranteed benefits. 
Aviva also issued a final response about the information provided in their annual/anniversary 
statements in April 2018. They said the statements no longer included bonus tables as this 
had historically caused confusion. 
Mr P said that as well as this plan, he also had a final salary pension elsewhere. He said the 
Section 32 plan made up about 50% of his total pension fund. 
Mr P wanted to start planning for his retirement in early 2021. He had decided he wanted to 
take some tax-free cash from one of his plans, and needed information from Aviva about his 
Section 32 plan to help him with his decision making. Ideally, he wanted confirmation that he 
would be able to transfer his plan away from Aviva at his retirement date so he could access 
the tax-free cash he wanted from the plan, rather than from his final salary pension. 
Mr P contacted Aviva to request information about his plan. He wanted to know the 
current value of the GMP and a projection for his retirement date. He also wanted Aviva to 
confirm that there would be sufficient funds in the plan to pay the GMP, so that he could 
transfer into an alternative product at retirement. And confirmation of the terminal and 
additional bonus rates.
Aviva sent Mr P a projection as at his selected retirement date. But they didnt respond to his 
other requests. So Mr P raised a formal complaint.
Aviva replied to the complaint on 23 February 2021. They didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. Their reply covered Mr Ps complaint that his annual statement didnt contain enough 
information for him to decide what to do with his plan as he approached his retirement date. 
They said theyd sent him a standard statement on 24 January 2021. And that this provided 
an overview of the values of the plan and a projection of that value at his 24 January 2023 
retirement date. Aviva acknowledged that Mr P needed more information to make his 
decision. But said this could be provided on request. 
Mr P was unhappy with Avivas response. So he complained again on 24 February 2021. He 
said that Avivas previous response hadnt answered his questions. And that the projections 
theyd provided only contained some of the information he needed. 
Mr P asked Aviva some further questions based on his interpretation of the information 
theyd provided. He wanted to know whether his plan would generate sufficient funds to 
cover the GMP. He felt that the GMP would be covered given the current plan value and 
current annuity rates. Mr P asked if he could use the maturity value of his pension to provide 
an alternative pension product if the GMP was covered. And also asked if he would need to 
get independent pension advice in that case. And if he did need to do so, would he be able 
to use the Government Pension Advisory Service.
Mr P also said that hed asked Aviva for the current rates of Terminal Bonus and Extra Final 
Bonus. But that theyd ignored or overlooked his question. He said that this information used 
to be included in his Annual Statement, but wasnt any more. He repeated his request for 
this information. And said that if his interpretation of previous bonus rates was correct that he 
also needed to complain about the apportioning of bonuses. He felt that if his plan had 
matured on the 9 April 2018 then he would have over £68,000 more pension funding 
available. 
Aviva replied to the complaint on 12 March 2021. They said that while the estimated 
projected values supported the GMP at retirement, these werent guaranteed. And would 
depend on the value of the plan at retirement and on Avivas annuity rates at that time. 
Therefore they said they couldnt state with certainty that the GMP at retirement would still 
be fully supported by the value of the policy. 
Aviva said that there was no drawdown facility with Mr Ps plan. So he would need to 
transfer out to access drawdown. They confirmed that he would need fully regulated 
independent financial advice to do that. And also that if the cost of providing the GMP 
exceeded the transfer value, Mr P wouldnt be able to transfer out due to HMRC restrictions.
Aviva also said that they now displayed Terminal Bonus differently. They said that the 
current rate for plans which started in 1988 was 15%. But that this wasnt guaranteed and 
could change at any time. They said that previous estimated rates were only applicable to 
plans maturing at the time the rate was provided. So they didnt show them anymore as they 
only applied to plans maturing immediately. And could therefore be misleading for plans 
maturing in future. 
Mr P was still unhappy with Avivas response. He wasnt happy with the plan updates they 
provided, the support they provided to customers approaching retirement, and their 
apportionment of bonuses.
Aviva issued their final response on the complaint on 9 April 2021. They said theyd provided 
Mr P with the information that they could. But that they couldnt confirm exact figures or 
quotes until Mr P reached his retirement date, as any values they provided could change 
between now and Mr Ps retirement date. They didnt think made any errors in the servicing 
of Mr Ps plan.
Mr P was still unhappy with Avivas responses. So he brought his complaint to this service 
on 19 August 2021.He complained that:
- The bonus information Aviva had provided didnt allow him to plan for his retirement.
- The annual statements Aviva sent him no longer included confirmation of bonus 
amounts.
- Aviva had unfairly changed how bonuses were paid during the term of his plan, 
causing him to lose out.
- He didnt feel he should be required to use an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) if 
he decided to transfer his pension to another provider. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. While she understood 
Mr Ps frustration that the available information didnt confirm his retirement options with his 
Section 32 plan, she felt that Aviva hadnt treated him fairly. And she didnt think Aviva had 
done anything wrong. 
Mr P didnt agree. He felt that:
- Aviva hadnt provided all relevant information about the plan value over time
- He felt that Aviva had provided information about additional bonuses which had then 
been withdrawn without notification
- He felt that Aviva had unfairly changed the bonus regime which had led to a financial 
loss for him and many other policyholders
- He felt that there was an anomaly between the transfer values Aviva had quoted 
before he reached his selected retirement age and the guaranteed minimum value of 
the plan
- He was unhappy that Aviva couldnt confirm that the GMP wouldnt definitively be 
met
- He felt it was unfair and unnecessary for him to have to pay for financial advice if he 
needed to transfer away from Aviva.
I note that Aviva provided a further response to Mr P in September 2022. They confirmed:
- that the minimum amount Mr P would receive from his plan on his selected 
retirement date was £251,480.10
- that they couldnt confirm the amount of any Terminal Bonus. They explained this 
was because there would be a with-profits bonus declaration on 1 January 2023, 
before Mr Ps selected retirement age. Therefore they couldnt provide confirmation 
of the Terminal Bonus until after that declaration.
- That there was no Additional Bonus due on the plan. The final amount of the plan at 
Mr Ps selected retirement age would be made up of the minimum value of 
£251,480.10 and any Terminal Bonus due at retirement. 
- That the total GMP at Mr Ps selected retirement age was £8,138 each year.
- That the current cost of securing that GMP was £151,107.84. But that this was an 
estimate which couldnt be guaranteed- That the recent transfer value theyd provided as at 8 September 2022, which 
amounted to £204,469.32, was lower than the guaranteed minimum on the plan 
because the plan was based around guaranteed amounts at Mr Ps selected 
retirement date. And if taken earlier, those guarantees wouldnt apply. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr P. Ill 
explain the reasons behind my decision. 
Mr P felt he needed certain information from Aviva so that he could properly plan for his 
retirement. In his case, this was especially important as he felt his decisions about what he 
wanted to do with his Aviva pension would impact what he needed to do with his final salary 
pension. 
Before I start to consider each aspect of Mr Ps complaint, I wanted to note that I understand 
why Mr P wanted certainty about what he could do with the proceeds from his Aviva plan 
when he reached his selected retirement age. But I consider it was highly likely that he 
wouldve also been able to defer his retirement from his final salary scheme until he received 
the certainty he needed from Aviva. Therefore, while I can see why the information he 
requested from Aviva wouldve been useful, I dont consider that it was completely vital to his 
retirement planning. 
Information provided
Mr P complained that the bonus information Aviva had provided didnt allow him to plan for 
his retirement.
Aviva have explained that it wasnt possible to provide the certainty that Mr P had requested. 
And I agree that it wouldnt have been possible for them to have provided this. I say this 
because the only certainties about Mr Ps pension were that the minimum value at his 
selected retirement date would be ££251,480.10. And the GMP would be £8,138 each year. 
This is because while his plan is still invested, its value is subject to market movements. Its 
only guaranteed at the selected retirement age.
From what Ive seen, Aviva have explained why they couldnt confirm with certainty that the 
GMP would be met at Mr Ps selected retirement age  that is, they couldnt know what the 
cost of securing the GMP would be at a future date. 
I appreciate that the September 2022 cost of securing that GMP was quoted as around 
£100,000 less than the guaranteed minimum value at Mr Ps selected retirement date, which 
was only around four months later. But I wouldnt expect Aviva to effectively guarantee that 
the GMP would be covered. So Im satisfied that they acted fairly and reasonably by giving 
Mr P all of the information they could. And explaining why they were unable to give the 
confirmation he wanted.
Im also not persuaded that Aviva did anything wrong when they explained why they couldnt 
yet confirm the Terminal Bonus on the plan. They wont know what this will be until after 1 
January 2023. Mr P also said that the pre-selected retirement age transfer values hes been quoted were 
considerably lower than the guaranteed minimum value at his selected retirement age. He 
felt there was an anomaly here. 
Aviva have explained why transfer values before a policyholder reaches his or her selected 
retirement age can be lower than the eventual guaranteed minimum value. And Im satisfied 
that this was a reasonable explanation.
Overall, while I understand why Mr P is frustrated that Aviva cant give him confirmation of 
the eventual proceeds from his plan, I dont consider that theyve done anything wrong here. 
And Im satisfied that they were unable to provide any more clarity than they already have. 
So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Annual statements no longer indicate expected bonus
Mr P complained that the annual statements Aviva sent him no longer included information 
about bonus amounts, which he found very useful. He has already complained to Aviva 
about this matter, and they issued their final response in 2018. They said:
We do not provide predictions of what our bonus rates will be in the future. Due to the high 
level of misleading interpretations we no longer include the bonus rate tables in our 
Anniversary statements.
I appreciate the annual statements Mr P has received have changed over time. But as our 
investigator noted, they contained the information the regulator expects to be included. And 
this service doesnt have the remit to police the regulator. 
Mr P also specifically complained about a letter Aviva sent in August 2015, which he felt told 
him there would be an additional bonus of 7.5%. He said Aviva then provided no further 
updates on this bonus rate. And that they hadnt notified policyholders that this bonus had 
been withdrawn. 
As Aviva noted in their 2018 final response, they stopped including information like that 
included in the August 2015 letter as they felt it was misleading. 
Ive reviewed the letter from August 2015. It stated that Aviva: currently expect the 
additional bonus to be paid. But it also stated: In some circumstances we may need to 
reduce or even stop it, to protect policyholder. This may happen if economic or investment 
conditions change significantly.
From what Ive seen, I can understand why Aviva removed such wording from their annual 
statements. I consider that as the potential additional bonus was never guaranteed, it really 
didnt provide any useful information to the policyholder.
Ive looked at several annual statements that Aviva provided to Mr P over the years. When 
the bonus information was included, the statements always stated that they werent 
guaranteed. And the statements often said that Aviva had been unable to declare any 
regular bonuses that year.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Aviva acted reasonably when they stopped 
including bonus information on the annual statements. So I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Bonus Payment RegimeMr P felt that Aviva had acted unfairly when theyd changed the bonus payment regime. He 
said that when he first took out the plan there was both an annual non-reversible bonus 
declaration with a secondary variable Terminal Bonus. He felt this approach better protected 
policyholders from the volatility of investment markets than simply applying a Terminal 
Bonus.
Aviva explained the reason for the change to the bonus payment regime in 2011. The annual 
statement that year said:
Your plan may have a guaranteed benefit at maturity or if you die. Any regular bonus youve 
already received is also guaranteed. Because of the investment conditions weve seen 
recently and in previous years, weve made payment of guaranteed benefits our priority. At 
present we are unable to add to these guarantees with further regular bonus payments. Any 
future investment earnings in excess of those needed to support guarantees already given 
are much more likely to be added through final bonuses which, as they vary by 
commencement year, allow for greater flexibility.
I do appreciate why Mr P has made this point. But Aviva werent alone in changing the way 
they apply bonuses to plans like this, and many other providers have followed the same 
practise. Our investigator explained the reasons for this change in her view. She also 
explained that Avivas bonus policy is a commercial decision which this service cant 
interfere with.
Our investigator also noted that Avivas fundamental obligation with plans like Mr Ps is to 
pay the GMP. And that any bonuses over and above this were purely discretionary. As I 
noted earlier in this decision, I consider that all the annual statements Ive seen made this 
clear. 
Mr P also said that if his plan had matured in 2018 he wouldve been around £60,000 better 
off than now. He felt that other policyholders had also suffered.
Aviva told Mr P in their 12 March 2021 letter that the rates theyd previously provided were 
only applicable to plans maturing at the time the rate had been provided. And that his 
guaranteed minimum fund at retirement reflected a different level of guarantee to plans 
which were maturing at that time or in previous years. 
Aviva didnt agree with Mr Ps calculation of his loss against his plan maturing in 2018. They 
said that if his plan had matured in 2018, the guaranteed minimum value at retirement on the 
plan would have been smaller than £251,480.10. 
Ive no evidence that Mr P has personally lost out due to Avivas change in bonus payment 
regime. And in any event, Aviva were entitled to change the way they operated, and they 
treated all of their policyholders the same. Therefore I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Requirement to use an IFA
Mr P didnt think he should be required to use an IFA if he decided to transfer his pension to 
another provider. 
Aviva told Mr P that this wouldnt be possible. And that he would need to engage an IFA at a 
cost. He wanted to know why he couldnt use Pension Wise for this purpose. 
As our investigator has already noted, The Pensions Schemes Act 2015 (PSA15), which 
allowed people to take their pension benefits more flexibly, also set out a legal requirement 
that advice must be taken when accessing, or transferring, safeguarded benefits over £30,000. They did this in order to limit risk to policyholders.
As Mr Ps Aviva plan contains a GMP with a value greater than £30,000, he would be 
required to consult an IFA if he wished to transfer his plan, in line with PSA15. And he 
wouldnt be permitted to use Pension Wise.
Therefore I can confirm that Avivas advice was correct. And they didnt do anything wrong 
here. 
Overall, Ive found no evidence that Aviva did anything wrong. Therefore I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman