DRN-3670858
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mercer Limited formerly trading as JLT Investment Management 
Limited (Mercer), caused delays in the service it was providing to her which cost Mrs H the 
opportunity to transfer her defined benefit pension (as an insistent client) because Mercer 
withdrew from the insistent client process. Mrs M says that consequently she was unable to 
reduce her mortgage or her working hours as intended. 
What happened
Mrs H wanted to cash in an occupational (defined benefit) pension (the scheme) at age 55 
because she was moving house (and didnt want to have to increase her mortgage) and 
because she was also planning on reducing her working hours. So she contacted Mercer to 
discuss how she could go about doing that. She told Mercer she wanted to cash in the 
benefits from the scheme in full.  
Mrs H had an introductory call with a financial adviser in May 2020 after which she was sent 
a client information pack. During that first meeting, Mercer told Mrs H that it was unlikely it 
would recommend she transfer from a defined benefit pension which had valuable 
guarantees but that if she disagreed with the advice she received, she could be treated as 
an insistent client and the transfer would still be able to go ahead. There were forms to 
complete and return before the advice process could proceed. 
Mercer received the forms from Mrs H in early July 2020 and Mercer requested the transfer 
value from the scheme a couple of weeks later. Mercer received the transfer value and 
scheme information in the first week of August 2020 and on the same day it then requested 
a Transfer Value Analysis and comparator which it received on 24 August 2020. Mrs H 
understood that Mercer would advise against her transferring from the scheme but was also 
aware she was entitled to do so if she insisted. 
Mercer told Mrs H on 22 September 2020 that her financial analysis was ready for her but it 
also said it was very busy so she would have to wait for her advice phone call. 
On 5 October 2020, Mercer sent Mrs H a letter to let her know that she was being assigned 
a new adviser as a result of it merging with JLT Investment Management. A phone call with 
the new advisor took place on 14 October 2020 during which Mrs H was advised that 
Mercer, from 1 October 2020, was no longer processing applications on an insistent client 
basis. There was an initial advice call the following day and a further advice call on 
19 October 2020. Mercer sent Mrs H a Pension Recommendation Report on 29 October 
2020 advising against the transfer.
Mrs H was unhappy that by the time she received the advice phone call and her report 
Mercer had withdrawn from the insistent client process and wouldnt facilitate the transfer. As 
she felt she had been left in a bad financial position she complained to Mercer.
Mrs H told Mercer that she was unhappy about the delays in progressing her pension case. 
She said that when she first spoke to her financial adviser (in May 2020) about the transfer 
she explained that her house move was intrinsically linked to being able to access funds 
from her pension. She said she checked at the outset that if she paid the £3,000 advice fee 
that she could proceed with the transfer even if it was against Mercers advice to do so. She 
said she was told that she could. Mrs H said she had told Mercer to progress with the 
pension transfer as a matter of urgency as she had had an offer accepted on a new house 
and had been told the pension transfer process could take up to 3 months. Mrs H said shed 
emphasised that it was urgent because she didnt want to have to take out a larger 
mortgage.
Mrs H said that in the end she applied for a larger mortgage with a view to reducing it once 
she had got the money from her transferred pension. And Mrs H said she had been 
reassured that the merger of JLT Investment Management with Mercer would have no 
impact on her plans for her pension at all. 
Mrs H said she felt unfairly treated and the impact of the delays had had a significant effect 
on her wellbeing. Mrs H said her mortgage was now £600 more per month than it had been 
previously and she couldnt now reduce her working hours either. She explained that at 55 
she had a far larger mortgage than she was comfortable with.
Mercer looked into Mrs Hs complaint and issued its final response letter in November 2020. 
It apologised for the delays Mrs H had experienced which, it said, were due to its advisers 
case load and the internal restructuring that it had recently gone through. It acknowledged 
that Mrs H was part way through an insistent client application and that she wanted to use 
her pension to reduce her mortgage. Mercer also said it advised against her transferring 
from a scheme, like hers, that included underlying guarantees and, it said, it was highly 
unlikely it would ever recommend she do so. 
Mercer went on to state that a number firms were also moving away from the insistent client 
process. It said that whilst it understood that Mrs H had taken out a larger mortgage and was 
unable to reduce her working hours, its recommendation not to transfer was made in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidelines and was given to protect her best interests. 
Mercer said the financial impact of cashing in a defined benefit pension would be serious. 
Mercer said Mrs H could seek advice elsewhere and that it would cover the cost of her 
seeking a new transfer value should she wish to do so. For any distress and inconvenience 
shed been caused, it said it would pay her compensation of £150. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to Mercer, Mrs H complained to this service. 
She said she found Mercers offer of compensation insulting and that she wanted it to 
transfer her funds as shed requested as shed made the request when it still offered an 
insistent client service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
explained that the starting point was that such transfers were unsuitable unless it could be 
clearly demonstrated to be in a clients best interests. Our investigator noted that Mercer 
explained in its recommendation that the transfer was against Mrs Hs best interests. She 
also said that Mrs H could take advice elsewhere or seek a provider who would be willing to 
process the transfer on an execution only basis. Our investigator said that she was unable to 
make Mercer facilitate the transfer because its view was that it was unsuitable and not in 
Mrs Hs best interests. But she said Mercer hadnt prevented Mrs H from transferring her 
pension (with another provider). Our investigator said Mrs H had suffered a loss of 
expectation due to Mercers withdrawal from the process but that Mercers offer to pay her 
compensation of £150, waive its advice fee and pay for the cost of obtaining another transfer 
value if needed, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs H disagreed with our investigators findings. She said the crux of her complaint was 
about the delays she experienced which cost her the opportunity to transfer her pension 
despite making it clear to JLT in July 2020 that she needed it done urgently. She also 
thought that compensation should be based on the loss she suffered which Mrs H felt was 
more in the region of £50,000, which, she said, was at least the amount she had to increase 
her mortgage by. Mrs H said she didnt fully understand what options were open to her now. 
Our investigator thought about what Mrs H had said but wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. She told Mrs H that this service was unable to provide financial advice. Mrs H told our 
investigator that she had since tried to arrange her transfer on an execution only basis with a 
number of reputable pension providers but none of them would accept the transfer without 
providing supporting advice. So she said she was back to the start, having to seek advice 
from another financial adviser which would cost her in the region of £5,000. 
Mrs H said shed been paying an increased mortgage for over 7 months and was unable to 
consider reducing her working hours all of which had impacted her health and wellbeing. 
She said she wanted to be completely clear that her complaint wasnt about challenging 
Mercers advice to her, it was about the delay in it processing her request ahead of its 
withdrawal from the insistent client process on 1 October 2020. Mrs H said that at the very 
least she should be compensated for the cost of paying for more financial advice (about 
£5,000) plus the additional mortgage costs shed incurred as both were the result of Mercer 
not acting in a timely manner. 
The complaint was passed to me to consider and I asked our investigator to contact the 
parties to obtain some additional information. In response to our enquiries, Mrs H told us that 
she had indeed managed to transfer her DB pension to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) and that the transfer had taken place in August 2021. Mrs H also said she hadnt 
had to pay for any additional advice for the transfer as she had done it herself in the end. 
And she said she hadnt been able to reduce her hours at work yet as she was unable to do 
so before the mortgage was reduced.
Mrs H said she had completed on her new home on 9 November 2020. She sent us a copy 
of her current mortgage statement showing that she was paying £763.50 a month but hadnt 
yet paid off the additional mortgage because it was on a fixed deal with her lender until 
September 2022. The balance outstanding on 15 June 2022 was £93,196.
I asked our investigator to ask Mercer why it had taken a month to tell Mrs H that her 
financial analysis was ready for her and a further month before an advice call was made to 
discuss it. Our investigator also asked Mercer to explain why, when it had known for a 
number of months that Mrs H wanted to avail herself of a process it was about to withdraw it 
made no attempt to prioritise or expedite her advice phone call. Mercer was also told that Id 
listened to a phone call between Mrs H and her adviser that had taken place on 19 October 
2020 in which he told her that the transfer could indeed have been processed before the 
insistent client process was withdrawn. 
In response, Mercer provided a lot of generic information and repeated other information 
previously provided. It also said the removal of the insistent client process was a decision 
taken by senior management and wouldve been implemented with immediate effect and 
without prior warning to its advisers. It said when it started the transfer process for Mrs H in 
July 2020 it had no idea that the process would be withdrawn. And it said it was under no 
obligation in any event to carry out a transaction it deemed to be unsuitable. Nor was there 
any guarantee that the transaction would be carried out before the TVAS deadline. 
Mercer said there was no correlation between its merger with JLT (which took place in April 
2019) and the withdrawal of the insistent client process. It said the withdrawal was a commercial decision that would probably have taken place in any event. Mercer said it was 
unable to clarify its advisers comments to Mrs H as he was no longer employed. Finally it 
reiterated that its withdrawal of its invoice and offer of £150 as compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The complaint was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision in July 2022 
recommending that it was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think this is a complaint 
that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
This is not a complaint about the suitability of advice to transfer a DB scheme. Mrs H fully 
understood from the outset of her engagement with Mercer that it would advise her that 
transferring her DB scheme was unsuitable. Mrs H has been very clear throughout that shes 
complaining about the delays in the transfer process that cost her the option to transfer out 
of her scheme by using the insistent client process and achieve her stated objectives of 
moving home without having to increase her borrowing and reducing her working hours. 
The scheme Mrs H wanted to transfer was worth £3,180 per year at age 60 if the maximum 
tax-free cash was also taken (predicted to be £21,202). But it wasnt her only pension 
provision. In addition to the maximum state pension at 67, Mrs H had another occupational 
defined contribution scheme which had a predicted fund value at retirement at age 60 of 
£148,454 and another DB scheme with another former employer worth £7,968 per year from 
age 60. 
Mrs H told Mercer that she wanted to fully encash the scheme to fund her house move and 
was prepared to incur the tax charge doing so would generate. The CETV of the scheme 
was £130,904.  
Mercer doesnt dispute that Mrs Hs journey was subject to delays; in its final response letter 
to Mrs H it apologised for the delays shed experienced which it said were due to its 
advisers case load and the restructuring. So, whilst Mercer has recently told us that there 
was no correlation between its merger with JLT and the withdrawal from its insistent client 
process, there was clearly a correlation between the merger and the delays Mrs H 
experienced. 
I appreciate, as Mercer has stated, that advising on pension transfers is a complex and time-
consuming exercise,. But whilst Mercer also says that there can be data queries post TVAS 
and it could take an average time of 4-6 weeks to produce these, it doesnt say that this is 
what happened with Mrs Hs case. So, it is reasonable to think that but for the delays caused 
by the merger and the workload of its advisers, Mrs Hs transfer  albeit against Mercers 
advice  couldve been arranged before the insistent client process was withdrawn on 
1 October 2020. Thats because there was a period of over five weeks between receipt of 
the Transfer Value Analysis and comparator from the scheme and the withdrawal of the 
process during which it is reasonable to assume it couldve been facilitated. 
And whilst I note that Mercer says it didnt have to process a transfer itd advised against, I 
take into account the fact that it at no time made that clear to Mrs H. I think, if that was going 
to be its intention, it was unfair not to make that clear to Mrs H at the outset of its 
engagement with her. Rather its adviser told her on several occasions that if she wanted to 
go against Mercers advice then she could use the insistent client process. If it had no 
intention of letting her do so (and I refer here to the period where it still offered it) it should 
have made that clear from the start but what Mercer said to Mrs H was that it was unlikely to 
ever advise such a transfer would be suitable but she could use its insistent client process if she wanted to go against that advice. And that was the basis on which she proceeded. It at 
no point told her that if it advised her against the transfer it could also decline to transact it. 
So it follows that I think that Mercer unfairly delayed Mrs Hs pension transfer, the 
consequence of which was that she was unable to utilise its insistent client process before it 
took the decision to withdraw it. I think, for the reasons Ive given, that it shouldve been 
possible for Mercer to arrange the transfer prior to its withdrawal from the process. Ive 
listened to all the calls between Mrs H and Mercer and I note that Mercers adviser said it 
shouldve been possible too. I know Mercer says he is no longer employed so it cant clarify 
this with him but I cant reasonably ignore what he said. It is a contemporaneous comment 
that, it is reasonable to say, carries greater weight than a comment applied with the benefit 
of hindsight. And given the timings involved, I think its reasonable to accept the comment on 
face value.
As I think that Mercer should have facilitated Mrs Hs DB transfer I now have to consider 
what shouldve happened had all proceeded as it should and what, if any, financial loss 
flowed from Mercers omission. The Transfer Value Analysis and comparator from the 
scheme was available to Mercer from 24 August 2020. So I think its reasonable to assume 
that, but for the merger and the fact its advisers were busy, Mercer should have carried out 
its advice call with Mrs H by 15 September 2020. From the chronology of events Ive set out 
above, and the urgency Mrs H displayed throughout, Im satisfied that she wouldve acted 
quickly and used the insistent client process. 
I appreciate that it can take a good few weeks for schemes to release funds so I think 
assuming Mercer, having obtained Mrs Hs authority to do so, requested them by the end of 
September, they would have been released by the middle of November. 
Mrs H completed on her house on 9 November 2020 so I think it is fair to say that, even had 
her transfer proceeded without delay then there wouldve been a short period of time where 
she wouldve had to pay for additional borrowing on her house. She could not have been 
sure when exactly the funds would have become available so in order to make sure she 
could complete on her house I think she would always have had to have arranged a 
mortgage. 
Mrs H has told us she borrowed £100,000 on a two-year fixed deal. Mrs H pays the 
mortgage on the 5th of every month. So I think it would be reasonable to say she would 
always have had to pay the first instalment  on 5 December 2020  before she had the 
funds available to clear the balance even had the transfer gone according to plan. As I said, I 
think its reasonably likely that the funds wouldve been released by the scheme by mid-
November 2020 but there may well have been a further short delay whilst a new pension 
was set up and Mrs H was able to drawdown funds. 
But the monthly mortgage instalments Mrs H has had to pay thereafter were a result of 
Mercers delay in processing her transfer. So, the interest paid on this borrowing after 
5 January 2021 is a financial loss suffered by her as a result of Mercers failings. And whilst 
Mrs H did eventually arrange the transfer of her scheme it took her until August 2021 to do 
so. So I think it is reasonable to assume that Mrs H couldve cleared her second mortgage 
before her monthly mortgage repayment was taken on 5 September 2021. 
Mrs H has told us though that she hasnt cleared the balance of her additional mortgage yet 
because doing so before the expiry of the two-year fixed deal will incur an early repayment 
charge. I understand that fixed deal to be expiring on 30 September 2022.
Mrs H is under a duty to mitigate her loss however. Since September 2021 she has paid 11 
mortgage interest payments. It is possible that if she had repaid her mortgage before the September 2021 repayment the early repayment charge would have been less than the total 
amount of interest Mrs H paid over the subsequent 11 months. If that was the case, and 
given Mrs Hs duty to mitigate her loss, I would be unable to agree that it was reasonable for 
Mrs H to continue to incur the monthly mortgage payments when she could have cleared her 
mortgage (as she had always intended). But if the early repayment charge as of 
1 September 2021 was greater than the total of the subsequent 11 months of interest 
repayments then clearly it will have been better for Mrs H to have continued with the 
mortgage repayments until the expiration of the 2-year fixed deal period. 
Putting things right
Whilst I think that the December 2020 mortgage repayment would have fallen for Mrs Hs 
account in any event, I think that the January 2021 to August 2021 repayments (a total of 8 
repayments) were incurred as a direct result of Mercers failings. Mercer should reimburse 
Mrs H for the interest she paid on the sum borrowed during this period and pay interest* at 
this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date each payment was made to the 
date it settles my award. 
Mercer should liaise with Mrs Hs lender to ascertain the amount the early mortgage 
repayment charge would have been on 1 September 2021 and the total amount of interest 
she has paid between September 2021 and July 2022. Whichever figure is the lower should 
be paid to Mrs H. I appreciate that Mercer may seek to argue that Mrs H neednt have taken 
out a mortgage that was subject to an early repayment charge. But Mrs H has told us that 
the priority was to keep the cost of the monthly repayments as low as possible and that the 
two-year fixed deal she arranged (with its introductory rate of 1.3%) was the cheapest way of 
achieving that aim. So I cant say her actions in this respect were unreasonable. Mercer 
should liaise with Mrs Hs lender to ascertain what this charge would have been.
I also require Mercer to pay interest on whichever of these amounts it ends up paying Mrs H. 
Whilst Mrs M hasnt been out of pocket for paying any early repayment charge, she has had 
to continue to meet her monthly mortgage repayments. So, I think Mercer should pay 
interest on the early repayment charge figure from a notional payment date of 1 September 
2021 until the date it settles my award. If however, the total of the interest paid on the 
mortgage between September 2021 and July 2022 is the lower of the two figures, Mercer 
should pay interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date each 
payment was made to the date it settles my award. 
Mrs H has told us that she didnt, in the end, have to pay for any more advice as she was 
pointed in the direction of a firm that assisted her to make the transfer herself. So there is no 
fees for me to require Mercer to pay Mrs H. I note that Mercer has already agreed to waive 
its advice fee which I think, in all the circumstances, was a fair and reasonable action for it to 
take.
Mrs H has explained to us how Mercers failings have caused her additional trouble and 
upset. A pension transfer is always going to attract a certain degree of stress and time to 
arrange; thats to be expected. But where a firm, through its words or deeds, makes an 
already stressful situation worse, then this service can require it to pay compensation to a 
consumer. Here, the delays in Mercers process cost Mrs H the opportunity to achieve the 
very objectives she had approached it to facilitate. And as a consequence of Mercers 
failings she was put to some considerable trouble and upset. She was unable to reduce her 
working hours in order to look after her grandchildren as intended; she also ended up with a 
mortgage far larger than she was comfortable with and a reduced monthly income as a 
result, and she has put to the considerable inconvenience of arranging the scheme transfer 
herself. I think that total compensation of £500 more fairly reflects the degree of trouble and upset 
Mrs H has experienced as a result of Mercers poor service and failings and is more in line 
with awards made by this service in complaints with similar circumstances. If Mercer has 
already paid Mrs H £150 it need only pay a further £350 now but if not then it should pay her 
the full £500.
Mrs H replied to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it. Mercer replied and said:
It was of the view it wasnt responsible for the ERC because Mrs H would always have 
had to pay it as she had no other choice but to take out the mortgage in order to secure 
the purchase of her house. It said that it was always her intention to pay the ERC to clear 
the mortgage and cease the payments. Mercer said that even if the transfer had taken 
place in November 2020 Mrs H would have paid her advance and also the associated 
ERC. 
It accepted liability for the interest from January 2021 to August 2021 but, it said, the 
increase in the CETV she received as a result of the delay (it increased from 
£130,904.70 in August 2020 to £132,956.12 in August 2021) should be offset against it;
It didnt charge Mrs H for the advice, but if the transfer had gone through on an insistent 
client basis then it would have done so. It said I should take this into consideration.
Before issuing this final decision I asked our investigator to respond on my behalf to the 
points Mercer had raised. Our investigator said: 
That I didnt think it was certain that Mrs H would always have had to pay her lender an 
ERC even if everything had gone smoothly and that there were many permutations of 
what actions Mrs H could have taken in the circumstances had all proceeded to plan  
for example she may have thought, if she was about to receive her funds, that she 
should take out a further advance on her lenders standard variable rate (with no ERC), 
although any such payments would have been larger. Given she was about to complete 
on her house and it wasnt looking like the pension transfer was going to happen in time, 
Mrs H had to make a decision about what to do. Our investigator went on to explain that 
my view was that the decision Mrs H took wasnt an unreasonable one in the 
circumstances. She said that I accepted that it isnt possible to know for certain what 
Mrs H would have done had all proceeded to go to plan, but I had taken all the 
circumstances of this complaint into account and had endeavoured to find a fair and 
reasonable resolution to it;
That I had noted and considered Mercers comment about offsetting the increased CETV 
Mrs H actually received in August 2021 against any monetary award I was now asking it 
to pay. She said that this wasnt something I had previously considered but having now 
done so I was not persuaded that Id seen enough to allow me to be able to reasonably 
conclude the CETV Mrs H would have received in late November 2020 would have been 
lower than what she actually received in August 2021. She explained that the CETV 
Mercer obtained for Mrs H was valid only until 6 November 2020. Accordingly it was 
unlikely, even had all gone according to plan, that the transfer would have taken effect 
before it expired. It is therefore not unreasonable to think that Mrs Hs CETV would have 
been subject to an adjustment at the date of payment. She went on to say that it followed 
that it cant be known for certain whether Mrs H would have gained any advantage by not 
taking her CETV until 9 months later because the CETV of Mrs Hs pension in late 
November 2020 (had all proceeded smoothly) may have been more than the CETV 
Mercer obtained in August 2020 or the one she obtained herself in August 2021.
That I had already commented provisionally on the fact that Mercer hadnt charged 
Mrs H for the advice it gave her.Mercer responded to our comments to say that whilst it still didnt agree with my provisional 
findings it recognised that this complaint had been ongoing for some time and in order to 
bring it to a close it agreed to accept the provisional decision. That said, Mercer said it 
wasnt in agreement with the redress methodology I had used provisionally. It said it didnt 
think it was fair and reasonable because it left Mrs H better off than if the delays hadnt 
occurred. It reiterated that it had agreed to waive its £3,000 advice fee, offered her a 
compensation payment of £150 and offered to pay for her to obtain another CETV if she 
decided to get advice elsewhere. 
Mercer said it still disagreed that it was in any way liable for the ERC. It said that was 
because it was clear from Mrs Hs phone call with Mercers adviser that she must have 
already arranged the additional borrowing before the insistent client process was withdrawn 
on 1 October 2020. If that was the case it didnt agree it was liable for it as it had always 
been her intention to take additional borrowing. 
Mercer also said it still thought the enhanced CETV Mrs H received in August 2021 should 
be taken into consideration by me when deciding redress. It said if the opposite had 
happened and the CETV had decreased then I would have expected it to compensate Mrs H 
for that loss. It said when calculating loss it compared what happened with what should have 
happened and to aim to place the consumer in the position had things been done correctly. 
It also said that Mrs H was only able to arrange the transfer itself because of the advice it 
had given her. It said it is a regulatory requirement that whenever a consumer wishes to 
transfer out of a DB scheme they must take advice from an FCA registered adviser if the 
CETV is worth more than £30,000. So it was only because Mrs H had received advice about 
the transfer from Mercer that she was able to facilitate the transfer herself. 
Mercer said it wanted all these factors taken into account when calculating Mrs Hs loss. 
With the waiving of the advice fee and the enhanced CETV, Mrs H had benefitted to the tune 
of approximately £5,000 which I should take into account when calculating redress. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and after considering Mercers responses to my provisional decision, I 
remain of the view that this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Given that Mrs Hs 2-year fixed rate deal with her lender ends on 30 September 2022 I dont 
doubt that she did arrange her additional borrowing before Mercer withdrew from the 
insistent client process on 1 October 2020, or before the date (14 October 2020) she knew it 
had withdrawn from it on. That she did so however, doesnt in my view absolve Mercer from 
liability for paying for the ERC Mrs H would have incurred. I say this because before the 
mortgage started Mercer had already told Mrs H that her financial analysis was ready for her 
but that it was very busy and she would have to wait to receive her advice call. So its 
reasonable to think that by this point at the latest Mrs H had realised she had to act if she 
was to secure her new home. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mercer told Mrs H how 
long she would have to wait, only that she would. So I dont think the step Mrs H took in the 
circumstances  to arrange additional borrowing on the cheapest possible rate  was an 
unreasonable one for her to take. So, whilst I accept it isnt possible to know for certain what Mrs H would have done had all 
proceeded to go to plan, Ive taken all the circumstances of this complaint into account and 
have endeavoured to find a fair and reasonable resolution to it.
Mercer also said it still thought the enhanced CETV Mrs H received in August 2021 should 
be taken into consideration by me when deciding redress. It said if the opposite had 
happened and the CETV had decreased then I would have expected it to compensate Mrs H 
for that loss. It said when calculating loss it compared what happened with what should have 
happened and to aim to place the consumer in the position had things been done correctly. 
I cant say with any certainty what I would have done had Mrs H CETV decreased by the 
time she received it. To do so would be speculative. I can only look at the facts of this 
complaint as they are before me now and reach a fair and reasonable conclusion about what 
actually happened. I appreciate Mercers strength of feeling about this issue, and Ive 
thought about what it has most recently said about it. But I refer it back to my thoughts on 
the issue as set out above and as recently communicated to Mercer by our investigator. 
I still havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the CETV Mrs H would have 
received in late November 2020 would have been lower than what she actually received in 
August 2021. As the CETV Mercer obtained for Mrs H was valid only until 6 November 2020 
it was unlikely, even had all gone according to plan, that the transfer would have taken effect 
before it expired. This means a new CETV would have needed to have been obtained and I 
cant know for certain whether Mrs H would have gained any advantage by not taking her 
CETV until 9 months later because the CETV of Mrs Hs pension in late November 2020 
(had all proceeded smoothly) may have been more than the CETV Mercer obtained in 
August 2020 or the one she obtained herself in August 2021. 
It follows that I dont think it is reasonable to take the extra £2,052 Mrs H received on her 
CETV in August 2021 into account when considering what redress Mercer should pay her. 
I acknowledged provisionally that Mercer had offered to waive its advice fee following 
Mrs Hs complaint to this service. Mercer has recently said that fee was £3,000 but on 
reviewing the recommendation report it provided to Mrs H I can see that its advice fee was 
actually £1,950 plus a further £250 for the Pension Transfer Analysis and £50 for a 
comparison against a lifetime annuity. I make that a total of £2,250. There is a fee of £750 
mentioned for implementing the transfer but as Mercer never did, I cant see how this can be 
fairly included in the fee it waived. 
It was Mercers decision to offer to waive its (£2,250) advice fee. It did so in response to 
Mrs Hs complaint to this service. As I commented provisionally, I thought that was fair. And I 
remain of that view particularly as Mercer was unable to provide Mrs H with the service she 
had approached it for. I dont disagree with Mercer however that the advice it provided to 
Mrs H enabled her to facilitate the transfer herself. It was indeed a regulatory requirement, 
given the size of the pension she was seeking to transfer, that she take advice. Mercer 
implies that its unfair for Mrs H to benefit from free advice but it was Mercers offer that has 
meant Mrs H has had free advice. And having made the offer I dont think its fair to withdraw 
that offer or offset it against any mortgage interest and ERC Mrs H is fairly and reasonably 
due. 
I acknowledge that it is hard to put things exactly right for Mrs H here  there are many 
factors to take into account, and it is not possible for me to say with absolute certainty what 
position Mrs H wouldve been in if things had progressed as they should have. However, Im 
satisfied that what Ive recommended Mercer should do to put things right for Mrs H is fair 
compensation for the actual financial loss she has suffered, and the trouble and upset the 
matter has caused her.As another month has now elapsed, it follows that the calculation of the total amount of 
interest Mrs H has paid since September 2021 should extend until August 2022 rather than 
July 2022. 
Putting things right
I require Mercer to do the following: 
Pay Mrs H the sum equivalent to the interest she paid on the mortgage borrowing from 
January 2021 to August 2021 inclusive;
Add interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year on each instalment from 
the date it was paid by Mrs M to the date it settles my award;
Pay Mrs H either an amount equivalent to what her mortgage early repayment charge 
would have been on 1 September 2021 together with interest on this amount at this 
services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the same date until the date it settles my 
award or, if lower, it should pay Mrs H a sum equivalent to the total amount of interest 
she has paid on her mortgage between September 2021 and August 2022 together with 
interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year on each instalment from the 
date it was paid by Mrs M to the date it settles my award.
Mercer should liaise with Mrs Hs lender in order to obtain this information.
Pay Mrs H compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience its shortcomings in 
service caused her. If Mercer has already paid Mrs H £150 it need now pay only a further 
£350.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided by Mercer to Mrs H for HMRC purposes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Mercer Limited to take the steps I 
have set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman