DRN-2169856
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about One Insurance Limited. She isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under her motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mrs A made a claim under her motor insurance policy after her car was burnt out while she 
was staying away from home. One Insurance looked into the circumstances surrounding the 
theft but turned down the claim. It felt that Mrs A was involved in the arson attack on her car 
and cited fraud. 
Mrs A wasnt happy about this as she had simply been the victim of crime, so she 
complained to One Insurance. It maintained its position, but it did award £300 compensation 
for the delay in dealing with her claim. As Mrs A remained unhappy she complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld her complaint. Although she could understand 
why One Insurance had reached the conclusion it did she didnt think it had sufficient 
evidence to turn down the claim.
As One Insurance didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand why One Insurance reached the conclusion it did I agree with our 
investigator that there isnt sufficient evidence to support its position. Ill explain why.
Mrs A was attending a family event a significant distance away from home and arranged to 
stay at a city centre hotel near family. When she got to the hotel the car park was full, so she 
and her partner looked for on street parking. They found something near the hotel on a 
street which had CCTV nearby and they felt it was safe to park there. And when they parked 
the car there were other cars around it.
When Mrs A returned to the car she was horrified to see it had been burnt out. She called 
the police and it was confirmed that the fire brigade had attended the car during the early 
hours of the morning. The car was a write off as it was burnt out and she notified One 
Insurance about this. And she was left stranded with her children a long way from home and 
inconvenienced as she was without a car. 
Although One Insurances appointed investigator didnt have any concerns about the 
account given by Mrs A it looked at CCTV evidence and concluded that the arsonist must 
have had access to her original key. This was because the CCTV showed the car headlights 
flash when the arsonist approached the car and the arsonist accessed the car initially before 
setting the car on fire.
While I can understand One Insurances concerns I dont think it has sufficient evidence to 
support its position. It spoke to a main dealer and it was suggested that an original key had 
to be used to unlock the car in the manner the arsonist did. But Mrs A has provided some 
evidence to the contrary and our investigator spoke to the manufacturer as well and they 
said that the flashing lights just show that the car was unlocked, not that an original key was 
used. And there are a number of means that could be used to access a car like Mrs As, so I 
wouldve expected One Insurance to explore this further.
Indeed, Mrs A still had her original two keys and I wouldve expected One Insurance to have 
had the keys tested to see if there was any data on the keys to show when they were last 
used. I can see that the manufacturer suggested that there might not be much data available 
from the key. But given what was at stake here Id have expected One Insurance to explore 
this further.
Overall, Im not persuaded that One Insurance has sufficient evidence to say that Mrs A was 
somehow involved in the damage caused to her car. Mrs A has provided evidence of her 
movements during the evening in question and I dont think she would have looked to park 
by CCTV if she was anyway involved in the damage to her car. Mrs A also had the keys in 
her possession and the car was relatively new and there is nothing to suggest that Mrs A 
needed to dispose of the car for financial reasons or because it had a mechanical problem. 
Plus, having the car burnt out a long way from home at that particular time was very 
inconvenient to Mrs A. And I think she would have done this closer to home when her 
children were less reliant on her if she was involved in the arson.
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for One Insurance to settle the claim. And I dont propose to increase the level 
of compensation as I can understand why One Insurance declined the claim, I just dont 
think it has sufficient evidence to support its position.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance 
Limited to settle Mrs As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
and ensure any costs incurred are refunded. It should also ensure that any adverse 
information recorded internally and externally is removed and pay her the £300 
compensation it suggested, if it hasnt already.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman