DRN-3563864
The complaint
Miss G complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) was misrepresented to her.
What happened
Miss G took receipt of a used car in June 2019. She financed the deal through a five-year 
hire purchase agreement with SMF. At the end of the agreement she would become the 
legal owner if she paid a £10 option to purchase fee. 
In 2021 Miss G became aware of a discrepancy in the mileages recorded during MOTs the 
car had before she took receipt of it.
The MOT mileages on the governments database show:
8 June 2018 24,722 miles
25 March 2019 40,478 miles
16 May 2019 32,712 miles
26 August 2020 46,417 miles
26 August 2021 55,603 miles
Miss G says the mileage shouldnt have reduced after the March 2019 MOT. She has 
explained that the discrepancy means the car isnt worth as much as she thought and that 
she intended on selling the car but cant do so now without reporting the discrepancy. Shes 
upset that she may be left with a car that isnt worth what she thought.
SMF thought it was likely the discrepancy was due to the mileage in March 2019 being 
recorded as 40,478 instead of 30,478. They thought this was the most likely cause of the 
problem and they didnt therefore think thered been a misrepresentation.
Our investigator agreed with SMF, but Miss G didnt, and she asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Theres a two-stage test for misrepresentation. Was the consumer given a false statement of 
fact and did that false statement of fact lead the consumer to enter into an agreement that 
they wouldnt otherwise have entered into.
On the second test Im persuaded its likely Miss G wouldnt have proceeded with the 
agreement if there was evidence the car had been clocked as that would have meant the 
value of the car was likely to be lower than had been considered when the hire purchase 
agreement was constructed. Shed therefore be likely to be paying more for the car than she 
needed to. Shed also be concerned about the need to report the discrepancy. 
But Im not persuaded, on the evidence I have, that there is sufficient to say the mileage on 
the car when it was supplied to Miss G was incorrect. So, Im not persuaded Miss G was 
given a false statement of fact (the first test) and I dont therefore think theres been a 
misrepresentation.
I say that because I agree its most likely the mileage recorded in March 2019 was wrongly 
recorded and should have been 30,478. I think its feasible for a car to be driven 3,000 miles 
whilst at a dealership, as its not uncommon for cars to be used as courtesy vehicles. Im 
also not persuaded its suspicious that two MOTs were completed in reasonably quick time. 
I can understand that consumers would want to buy a car with 12 months MOT and I dont 
think its unusual for dealerships to complete an MOT ahead of time to ensure they can 
advertise cars with that.
I asked Miss G and SMF for the cars service records as the mileage would be recorded on 
those records. Unfortunately, neither party has been able to obtain them, and our 
investigator hasnt been able to do so either. In the absence of those records I dont think I 
have sufficient corroboration of Miss Gs assertion the mileage had been adjusted. 
Miss G says that the MOT history will give her problems selling the car. The terms of the 
agreement dont allow Miss G to sell the vehicle as it remains SMFs property until the end of 
the contract in 2024. At that point Miss G could pay the option to purchase fee and keep the 
car, or she could return it to SMF. I understand she may not want to return it as she wouldnt 
then benefit from the residual value if she subsequently sold it. But if the mileage 
discrepancy meant the car was worth less than anticipated Miss G wouldnt be likely to sell 
the car for as much as she couldve done without that discrepancy.
But there is another option. The contract allows Miss G to end the agreement at any time 
when shes paid, or can pay, half of the total amount under the agreement. So that allows 
Miss G to exit the agreement early and any loss in value due to the mileage discrepancy will 
be SMFs to bear. 
So, I dont think this car has been misrepresented to Miss G and I dont think the MOT 
records need to disadvantage her. Im not therefore asking SMF to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman