DRN-3330879
The complaint
Mrs S is a sole trader. She complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined her application
for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mrs S had an existing personal account with Santander which she also used for her
business.
In May 2020, Mrs S applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan, but Santander declined the
application. The bank said this was because the account shed entered on the application
wasnt her main account. But Mrs S explained this was a mistake, and Santander let her
reapply. Mrs S applied again in June and was asked to send in her tax return as evidence of
her turnover.
In July, Santander declined Mrs Ss application again, so she made a complaint. Santander
then asked Mrs S to provide documentation to prove the nature of her business; firstly an
invoice showing this type of income going through her account, and then a certificate to
show she was able to carry out the type of work shed described. Mrs S said she wasnt able
to provide the certificate as she didnt need one due to currently being employed  and that
evidence of her employed income could be seen going into her account. Mrs S also referred
the bank to legislation explaining why a certificate wasnt required for her to practise at that
time.
Santanders decision remained unchanged and it didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said
it had fairly declined Mrs Ss application as there wasnt enough evidence to confirm the
nature of her business. Santander said they had a list of acceptable industry specific
documents, and Mrs S had only supplied an expired certificate which they wouldnt accept.
So the bank suggested Mrs S provide a copy of a contract with the company she was
working for, so it could look at this again. However, it said that under the Scheme rules, a
borrower couldnt demand a loan even if they felt they were eligible. Mrs S didnt agree and
felt Santander had treated her unfairly, so she asked this service to look into her complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Mrs S had given
enough information to Santander about the nature of her business and explained why the
information the bank asked for wasnt relevant to her. So he recommended the bank look at
Mrs Ss application again and pay her £150 compensation for the inconvenience.
Santander didnt agree. It said that as Mrs S was applying using her current account and not
a business account, it needed to be satisfied about the nature of her business to comply with
its regulatory requirements. As it wasnt, it had used its discretion under the Scheme rules to
decline Mrs Ss application.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 February 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Bounce Back Loan scheme is a government-backed scheme, there were still
eligibility requirements - with checks having to be made and with some discretion for lenders
to have the final say as to whether to approve the loan. The checks a borrower would be
subject to when applying for a loan from any lender included, customer fraud, Anti-Money
Laundering and Know Your Customer checks.
When Santander completed its checks, the bank noted Mrs S had applied using her
personal account, not a business account - which it would accept, provided it could meet the
requirements of its regulatory checks. I can see the bank wasnt satisfied it had the
information required and declined the application, and I think this was reasonable.
Mrs S provided information about her income and identity which Santander accepted,
however it needed more information about the nature of Mrs Ss business. I recognise Mrs S
provided additional information to show this, and that she feels she wouldnt have been
asked this information if shed applied through a business account. But I dont think thats a
reasonable assessment.
I say that because, if Mrs S had applied using an existing Santander business account, the
bank would have already carried out these checks at the point of opening the account. So
Mrs S would have needed to provide the requested information at that point, rather than at
the time she wanted to apply for a BBL, and Santander would have had the information it
needed to meet its regulatory requirements.
Santander have explained to me why they were unable to accept the information Mrs S
provided, and Im satisfied with the banks decision. I also havent seen any evidence they
treated Mrs unfairly because of the account she used to make the application. I dont think
its reasonable to expect Santander to explain in detail why this wasnt acceptable and in
effect allow Mrs S to circumvent its checks. I recognise this was frustrating for Mrs S as she
felt shed given enough supporting evidence, but it was within Santanders discretion to
decide if this information met its requirements. So I wont be asking Santander to reassess
Mrs Ss application as I feel the banks decision was fair.
However, I think the bank could have explained to Mrs S more clearly that it had reviewed all
the information shed provided, and this still wasnt sufficient. Ive looked at the banks
response and I think the intention was to say that Mrs S had only provided one of the pieces 
of information it was able to accept - rather than just one piece in total. But Santander have
told is part of its decision was because Mrs S account activity didnt support what shed
declared and some of the information shed provided was dated after the application had
been submitted. I think it would have been reasonable for the bank to share this type of
information with Mrs S when it responded to her, so she could make an informed decision on
what to do next.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Santanders response to Mrs S caused her distress and
inconvenience as she didnt know why the additional information wasnt acceptable. Mrs S
also told the service shes incurred costs reinstating the certificate Santander said was
sufficient evidence in the hope this would help. And I dont think she would have done this -
particularly if the bank had explained it couldnt accept supporting information which was
dated after the application had been submitted. So I think Santander should refund Mrs S
the costs she incurred from obtaining a new certificate totalling £613.
I recognise that Mrs S feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision
as she wanted Santander to reassess her application. But based on everything Ive seen, I
think the banks decision to decline her application was fair. However, I think Santandercould have explained its decision to Mrs S more clearly so she could make an informed
decision on what to do next. And I think it should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused by this. 
I invited Mrs S and Santander to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Santander asked for proof of the costs 
Mrs S incurred and said it didnt agree as it wasnt happy with the evidence Mrs S had 
supplied. 
Mrs S also didnt agree. In summary she said:
in her role, she can lawfully work without a certificate if she is working along side 
someone who has a certificate, but regardless of the certificate status she was 
running a business;
her employed and self-employed income was visible through her account with the 
bank and her tax return evidenced this;
she thinks shes entitled to BBL and doesnt accept that the banks regulatory checks 
should prevent her from having one as she believes there was enough evidence to 
support her application;
she had no intention of circumventing the banks checks, but she wants a better 
explanation of why her application wasnt successful;
she believed she met all the banks requirements for a business account, and had 
been penalized for applying for a BBL through her personal account; and 
the decision outcome should be based on what was fair due to the unprecedented 
time caused by the pandemic, rather than regulatory checks.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my original decision.
Mrs S has explained at length why she feels Santander has acted unfairly and why she 
believes shes eligible for a BBL. Shes also asked for clarification about some of the areas 
the bank wasnt satisfied met its criteria. However, as I said in my provisional decision, 
Santander has discretion under the Scheme to decide who it will provide a BBL facility to. 
The bank has exercised its discretion in this case, and I think thats reasonable. 
I acknowledge Mrs S wants clarification on the areas Santander wasnt happy with when 
completing its checks, and that shes provided further evidence she believes support her 
application. However, I have given Mrs S as much information about the checks as I am able 
to provide. I asked Santander for further information about why it wasnt prepared to offer 
Mrs S a BBL, and Im satisfied with the information it gave. Santander doesnt have to 
disclose further information about the checks it undertook, and I cant reasonably ask it to do 
so.
I recognise Mrs S believes she meets both the Scheme and business account eligibility 
criteria, and that shes been treated unfairly as she applied using a personal account. 
However, I havent seen any evidence thats the case, as Santander allowed borrowers with 
personal accounts to apply - provided they met the banks criteria. I havent seen anything 
that suggests Mrs S was treated differently to any other borrower using their personal 
account. Although I said in my provisional decision that if Mrs S had a business account 
these checks would have already taken place, there is no guarantee that Santander would 
have chosen to open Mrs S a business account as this would have also been subject to the banks checks  and I cant say what its decision would be.
I acknowledge Mrs S believes this decision should be based on whats fair. But this service 
is impartial, and I have to be fair to both parties and consider all the evidence provided  
which includes any regulatory requirements. So whilst I understand my decision will be 
disappointing for her, I dont think Santander treated her unfairly by declining her BBL 
application as this was in line with what was permitted under the Scheme rules. 
Santander has told us its unhappy with the proof of costs Mrs S has provided. However I 
dont agree. Im satisfied that the evidence Mrs S has supplied along with her explanation 
behind the costs is reasonable. Therefore my decision remains the same that the bank 
should refund these costs plus £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Santander UK Plc to do the 
following:
refund Mrs S the £631 she incurred for recertification
pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman