DRN-3206297
The complaint
Mr A complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited declined his claim for his car when it 
was written off after an accident. He also complains that they cancelled his policy and sold 
the car at auction without his consent.
What happened
Mr A authorised his sister to speak to Haven about his claim. So some of the calls to Haven 
have been made by her, on his behalf. For ease throughout this decision, Im going to refer 
to all calls and correspondence as being between Mr A and Haven. 
Mr A had comprehensive motor insurance for his car with Haven. On 3 February 2021 he 
crashed his car, having lost control in poor weather conditions and collided with a barrier. 
There were no other vehicles involved in the accident. The car was recovered and taken to 
Mr As home.
He reported the accident to Haven on 5 February 2021. Based on the details Mr A provided 
about the accident circumstances Haven told him that he was responsible for the accident. 
He didnt dispute this and confirmed that he wanted to claim for the damage to his car on his 
policy. 
During this initial call Mr A was told that based on the description of the damage to his car 
hed provided, it was likely to be a total loss. But Haven needed images of the damage to 
confirm this.
Haven received images of Mr As car later in February 2021. These confirmed that there was 
extensive damage. They instructed their salvage agents to arrange to collect the car. This 
wasnt possible and Haven had to arrange for the car to be delivered to the salvage agents, 
by a recovery vehicle.
Having confirmed that the car was a total loss Haven asked Mr A to provide his vehicle 
documentation, including his vehicle registration document. When this was received it 
showed that the car wasnt registered in his name. He was asked to explain this and to 
provide proof that he owned the car. Mr A told Haven that he hadnt been able to register the 
car in his name after he bought it, as hed been out of the country visiting a member of his 
family who was seriously ill. 
Mr A told Haven that when he spoke to one of their agents about transferring the ownership 
of the car into his name, he was told this wasnt necessary, as the car was considered a total 
loss. 
On 14 April 2021 Mr A contacted Haven as hed received a letter from his brokers saying his 
policy had been cancelled due to concerns about indemnity. Mr A was told Haven would look 
into this and get back to him.
The claim was reviewed by Haven on 21 April 2021. By then Mr A had received his new 
vehicle registration document, showing him as the owner of the car and hed provided proof 
of purchase. As Mr A had provided proof of ownership, Haven decided his claim couldnt be 
declined on this basis. But they needed to consider the circumstances of the accident before 
cover could be confirmed. The police had attended the accident and Haven told Mr A theyd 
need to contact them. Haven applied for a copy of the police report on 29 April 2021.
One of the police officers whod attended the accident called Haven the following day. He 
confirmed that the accident happened in heavy rain, so the road was very wet. He told 
Haven that the cars rear tyres were bald, and he believed this was why Mr A had lost control 
and his car had skidded. He said that Mr A had been reported for driving with defective tyres 
and would receive a court summons.
On 6 May 2021 Mr A called Haven for an update on his claim, as hed heard from his 
brokers requesting full payment of his outstanding premiums, following the cancellation of 
his policy. He was told his claim was still being considered and hed be contacted when 
Haven had an update.
On 10 May 2021 Mr A called Haven again about the cancellation of his policy and was told 
hed need to speak to his brokers, as theyd dealt with that.
Shortly after this Haven wrote to Mr A advising him that they wouldnt be dealing with his 
claim, as he hadnt maintained his car in a roadworthy condition, which was in breach of the 
terms and conditions of his policy. Haven also told Mr A that his car had been sold, and 
although they wouldnt be paying his claim, theyd pay him the salvage value they received 
for the car.
On 17 May 2021 Mr As brokers called Haven asking them not to make any payments to 
him, as hed only paid the deposit on his policy and hadnt paid any of the agreed monthly 
premium payments. They said he owed £1261.45. The brokers were going to speak to Mr A 
about this.
The same day Mr A called Haven about their letter. He disputed their reasons for refusing to 
deal with his claim and said hes didnt want the salvage value for his car. He wanted his car 
back. He was told they couldnt return his car and theyd refer the matter to their complaints 
department. 
Mr A spoke to Haven again on 25 May 2021. He was told that they couldnt deal with his 
claim as hed been driving with bald tyres, and that decision wasnt going to be changed. But 
they agreed that they shouldnt have sold the car. Mr A wanted Haven to pay his claim in full 
to make up for this. He was told they couldnt do this, the salvage value of his car was all he 
was entitled to receive, and they explained that this was far less than what the car was worth 
before the accident. Mr A told Haven he was going to get some advice and would contact 
them again.
Haven sent their final response letter to Mr A on 28 May 2021. This confirmed that due to the 
damage sustained in the accident, his car was considered a total loss. And that they couldnt 
deal with his claim, because he was driving with two rear bald tyres, which had led him to 
lose control of his car and crash. His policy required him to keep his car in a roadworthy 
condition and he hadnt done this. They said they considered their decision to be correct and 
were prepared to change it.
But Haven accepted that their salvage agents had sold Mr As car at auction and that this 
shouldnt have happened. They couldnt pay his claim to make up for the error, but they 
could pay him the amount they received for the salvage, £8100, which they said was a fair 
value for the car, and they offered £200 for the inconvenience hed suffered.Mr A wasnt happy with this and complained to our service.  Our investigator considered the 
case and didnt recommend that Haven take any further action. He said that when Mr A took 
out his policy, he wasnt the owner of the car, and while Mr A might not have intended to 
mislead Haven, the information hed provided wasnt accurate. He also felt that Mr A had 
time, despite having to visit his sick relative overseas, to have the ownership of the car 
transferred into his name, so he didnt think it was unfair for the policy to be cancelled.
Once Haven had accepted Mr A owned the car and agreed to continue to investigate the 
claim, they discovered that hed been driving with two bald tyres. Our investigator accepted 
that this was in breach of the terms and conditions of his policy and so Haven were entitled 
to refuse to deal with his claim.
He accepted that Havens salvage agents shouldnt have sold Mr As car. But he felt that 
£8100 received for the vehicle salvage was reasonable. And Havens offer to pay Mr A this 
together with £200 for the inconvenience hes suffered was fair.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion. Hes said that he had a valid MOT certificate for 
his car, he believes his tyres were fine, and didnt cause the accident. Hes also said that 
hes lost around £7000 because Haven sold his car, and if they couldnt return his car, they 
should pay him what it was worth.
Since our investigator provided his opinion, weve asked Haven to provide confirmation of 
the pre-accident valuation of Mr As vehicle, an estimate of the cost of the repairs and the 
value of the salvage. Weve also asked Mr A to confirm what hed have done with the vehicle 
had the salvage been returned to him, rather than being sold by Haven.
Haven have provided an estimate and detailed breakdown of the repairs from their 
engineers. The cost of repairs totals £27,678.50 inclusive of VAT. Of this figure the cost of 
parts is £17,858.13 plus VAT. This estimate was based on a review of multiple images of the 
vehicle provided by the salvage agents. The engineers confirm that the vehicle had multiple 
areas of damage and that further damage was expected to be found if the vehicle was 
stripped. 
The engineers considered the vehicle to be beyond economic repair and noted that it had 
been a previous category S total loss in October 2017. They provided a pre-accident 
valuation for the vehicle of £19,230 from which they deducted 20% as it had been a previous 
total loss. So their pre-accident valuation was £15,384. And they valued the category S 
salvage at £2769.12, 18% of the pre-accident value.
Our investigator has sent Mr A copies of the estimate and breakdown provided by Havens 
engineers.
Mr A has told us that hed have had the vehicle repaired by a local garage that had serviced 
the car in the past. He says the garage had serviced the car multiple times prior to the 
accident and could have repaired it for around £4000. And they could have acquired most of 
the parts second hand for considerably less than the prices quoted by Havens engineers.
The garage also said that the car wasnt as badly damaged as Haven have claimed. Theyd 
seen the vehicle post-accident and dont accept it was a category S total loss, as theyd 
measured the structure and the frame and considered these to be within tolerance. This 
information was provided to our investigator during a telephone conversation with Mr A, who 
said he was at the garage and asked our investigator to speak to them.
The case has now come to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy with Haven required him to keep his vehicle in a 
roadworthy condition. The duties of the policyholder are set out in Section J  General 
conditions. And the relevant provision is: -
We will only provide insurance if; -
You and anybody left in charge or Your Car maintain Your Car in an efficient and roadworthy 
condition and comply with all statutory regulation and Car licensing authority regulations 
regarding its use, roadworthiness and condition (e.g You must hold a valid MOT certificate 
and Your Car must have legally correct tyres, lights, brakes etc).
Haven have provided evidence from the police that the two rear tyres of Mr As vehicle were 
devoid of thread - bald, and this was the reason he skidded and lost control of his vehicle. 
And he was reported for having two defective tyres.
Mr A has said that he doesnt agree the vehicle was unroadworthy and he had an MOT 
certificate. But he hasnt provided any evidence to show that at the time of the accident his 
rear tyres werent defective. 
So Im satisfied that Mr A hadnt kept his vehicle in a roadworthy condition as required by the 
terms and conditions of his policy. And that Haven were entitled to decline to deal with his 
claim and cancel his policy.
When Mr A first reported the accident, Haven were concerned as the V5 for the vehicle 
wasnt in his name. This issue was resolved, and Mr A provided proof that he purchased the 
vehicle on 4 January 2021. Ive referred to this, as Mr A has told us that hed have had the 
repairs carried out by a garage, whod serviced the vehicle multiple times prior to the 
accident. As based on the evidence hes provided Mr A had only owned the vehicle for a 
month prior to the accident, I dont find this evidence persuasive.
As Ive said I believe Haven correctly declined Mr As claim, so he wasnt entitled to receive 
payment for the pre-accident value of his vehicle. But Haven accept that they shouldnt have 
sold the vehicle without getting Mr As consent. They received £8100 for the salvage and 
theyve offered this to him together with £200 for inconvenience.
Havens engineer valued the salvage at £2,769.12. The amount received at auction was 
substantially more than this. Based on the available evidence Im satisfied that it was fair for 
Haven to offer Mr A the £8,100 they received for the salvage for his vehicle.
Mr A has said that as Haven accept they shouldnt have sold the vehicle without his consent, 
they should pay him the full pre-accident valuation, as hes lost around £7000 due to their 
actions. I dont agree. The reason Haven didnt pay Mr As claim for his vehicle was because 
hed breached his policy terms and conditions. This is the reason the amount hes been 
offered isnt the pre-accident value.
To consider whether the £200 Haven have offered for the inconvenience hes suffered is fair, 
I need to consider the impact their actions have had. Mr A has said he wanted to retain the 
salvage in the vehicle and could have repaired it for around £4000. Im not persuaded that 
this is correct. Haven have provided a detailed estimate of over £27,000, for the cost of repairs. And the engineer who provided this estimate said that further damage was likely to 
be found when the vehicle was stripped. This would only have increased the cost. 
Mr A has said he could have obtained a lot of the parts needed second-hand. And a garage 
which had serviced the vehicle multiple times before the accident had confirmed that they 
could do the repairs for around £4000. Im not persuaded by this. Mr A only bought the 
vehicle on 4 January 2021, he hadnt changed the V5 into his name because he was out of 
the country, and the accident happened on 3 February 2021. So based on the evidence I 
seen I dont accept that the garage knew Mr As vehicle or the amount they say the repairs 
would have cost, over the detailed estimate provided by Haven.
Im persuaded that the cost of the repairs is likely to have substantially exceeded the value 
of the vehicle. And Mr A is unlikely to have been able to repair it. So I think the £8100 Haven 
have offered Mr A for the salvage in his vehicle, together with the £200 they offered him for 
selling the salvage without his agreement is reasonable, and I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about 
Haven Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman