DRN-4443947
The complaint
A company I will refer to as L complains that Xbridge Limited (Xbridge) failed to provide a
policy renewal that conformed to its terms of business, and unfairly increased its premium,
under its commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
L says Xbridges terms of business require it to provide a renewal quote 21 days prior to the
policy expiry date. In January 2022 L says this wasnt provided. It says Xbridge sent an
email on 4 January advising its policy was due to expire. It provided a link to apply for a new
policy. This meant applying as a new customer, not renewing its existing policy.
When L called Xbridge on 22 January 2022, two days before the policy expired, it said the
policy couldnt be renewed without being sent for review by the insurer. Xbridge is Ls
insurance broker. It explained to L that this would take some time. L says Xbridge estimated
that to renew the cover would cost in excess of £2,000. The annual premium for the previous
year had been £543.74.
L says it had little choice but to agree a policy with less cover, in order to reduce the
premium to £1,321.29, which was more affordable, but still a significant increase in cost. L
didnt think Xbridge had treated it fairly and complained.
In its final complaint response, Xbridge says Ls insurer approved a renewal policy in 2020.
At the same time, it gave instructions that the policy shouldnt t auto-renew in future years.
This was because of an ongoing claim L had through its legal cover, for a clients unpaid
invoice. The insurer wanted Ls business activities to be reviewed before offering cover in
future years. However, Xbridge renewed the policy the following year (2021), without
carrying out a review. It acknowledges this was its error.
Xbridge emailed L on 4 January 2022 confirming an auto-renewal wouldnt be provided for
the coming policy year. It says L opened the email on the day it was sent. Xbridge says Ls
policy shouldnt have auto-renewed in 2021 on the same terms as the previous year. It says
if done correctly, Ls premium would likely have been higher.
L referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold its complaint. She says
Xbridge failed to identify that Ls legal dispute had been settled in 2020. This meant it should
have responded yes to the insurers question, Does the company have any current or
ongoing legal or contractual disputes for this policy year. But because it didnt provide the
correct information, the renewal price wasnt impacted.
Our investigator says this changed in 2022 when the insurer decided not to offer an
automatic renewal. This resulted in a significant increase in Ls premium.
Our investigator says Xbridge failed to review the claim settlement when it should have,
resulting in no renewal quote being provided in January 2022. However, she says L likely
benefitted from paying a lower premium, when this shouldve increased from 2020.
L disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to not uphold Ls complaint. Let me explain.
Xbridge is Ls insurance broker. It isnt responsible for the level at which premiums are set.
That is the role of its insurer.
L raised a separate complaint against its insurer. This was about the premium increase, the
connection to the legal claim it had made, and the losses this caused. The insurer made an
offer to re-calculate Ls 2022 premium on its standard terms. This is because Ls legal claim
shouldnt have had any impact on its risk consideration. In addition to its refund, the insurer
offered compensation in light of its mistake.
I wont consider the complaint points relating to Ls insurer. My focus here is on the role
played by Xbridge as Ls insurance broker.
I acknowledge what L says about Xbridges terms of business requiring either a renewal
offer or confirmation that a renewal isnt possible. It says this wasnt done at the time of the
renewal in January 2022. L doesnt dispute receiving an email dated 4 January 2022. But
says this only confirmed the policy was due to expire. With the provision of a link to allow an
application as a new customer.
Ive seen a copy of this email. It says the policy is due to expire on 24 January 2022. The
email says no insurance will be in place if L doesnt renew by this time. I can see the link L
describes, and a telephone number is provided for Xbridges renewal team.
I can understand why L was concerned that a renewal wasnt offered as had been the case
in previous years. And that the email didnt specify that no renewal was possible. But I think
L received appropriate notice that action was required to ensure cover remained in place.
L didnt contact Xbridge until 22 January 2022, two days before the policy was due to expire.
I acknowledge what it says about having little time to ensure cover was in place. But it knew
the policy wasnt automatically renewing around three weeks prior to the policy expiry date. I
think this gave L a reasonable opportunity to make contact to ensure cover was in place.
Xbridge concedes that it didnt provide the correct information to Ls insurer at the time of the
2020 renewal. This was about the legal claim that had been settled. I note what it says about
L benefitting from a lower premium from 2020 up to 2022, as a result of this mistake. But its
been shown that the legal claim shouldnt have been a factor in the insurers assessment of
Ls premium. A mistake was made in the insurers assessment of the risk. This has been
addressed by the insurer. But I dont think L benefitted from this mistake.
Having considered all of this I dont think Xbridge treated L fairly when it failed to provide
updated information to its insurer about its legal claim. But it was the insurers error that
meant there was an increase in premium. This shouldnt have happened irrespective of
whether Xbridge made this mistake or not. Based on this evidence I dont think Xbridgereasonably needs to do anything further to resolve Ls complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Xbridge didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider. 
L responded to say in both this complaint and the complaint against its insurer it was an 
individual person making the complaint, not a business. L says the business is set up as a 
sole trader. It says theres no legal distinction between the owner and the company in this 
scenario. 
L says that for the purposes of its insurance cover it was recorded as an individual trading as 
L. It says the sole trader status means the owner can suffer distress and inconvenience as a 
result of Xbridges actions. L refers to our services decision regarding his complaint about 
his insurer. Specifically, where it was said that a business cant suffer distress in the way an 
individual can. 
L says its insurer has yet to pay the compensation payment required by this service. It says 
both Xbridge and its insurer have made mistakes, which our service recognises. Including 
Xbridge giving incorrect advice and not understanding the product it was selling. L says 
Xbridge made repeated errors at its renewals in 2020 and 2021. And failed to follow its terms 
of business at the renewal in 2022.
L says this matter has continued for almost two years and impacted on the work carried out 
by the business. It has caused disruption and stress impacting on personal relationships. L 
asks that I reconsider the impact that both Xbridge and its insurer has had on it.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Ls comments that as a sole trader the business owner can 
suffer from distress and inconvenience in the same way an individual can. I think its correct 
to say that there isnt a separation of legal identity between a sole trader and the person who 
runs it. Ive thought about whether this means its fair for Xbridge to compensate L. 
In my provisional decision I explained that Xbridge had written to L around three weeks prior 
to the renewal date in 2022. It was clear in its letter that no cover would be in place as of the 
renewal date unless action was taken. As L points out, Xbridges terms of business say that 
either a renewal offer, or confirmation that a renewal isnt possible, will be provided by the 
business. I note what it says on this point. But I dont think Xbridge acted unreasonably. The 
letter is sent made it clear that L needed to make contact to ensure cover was in place. This 
was sent with sufficient time for it to make contact and understand its insurers position. 
The crux of the problem here is that Ls insurer had factored in Ls legal claim to its risk 
assessment when providing cover. This was a mistake. The legal claim shouldnt have 
factored into the insurers premium calculation. This was entirely the fault of Ls insurer not 
Xbridge. 
Xbridge had been asked not to allow an auto-renewal after the 2020 renewal. It didnt do 
this. But it was the insurers mistake that meant Ls premium was impacted by the legal 
claim. I dont think its been shown that Xbridges actions resulted in the issues L has 
complained about. The business assisted L when it was discovered that the premium with the existing insurer had increased significantly. It wasnt known at this point that the insurer 
had made a mistake. 
I acknowledge Ls reference to the complaint it raised about its insurer. This has been dealt 
with separately. My decision here relates to Xbridge so I wont comment in any detail on that 
complaint. Although, I note compensation was offered by the insurer, for its mistake, along 
with a premium refund, which our service agreed was fair. 
Having reconsidered Ls complaint, in conjunction with its further comments, although Im 
sorry for the impact it says this matter has caused, I dont agree that Xbridge is responsible 
for paying compensation. The crux of the dispute is down to the insurer factoring a legal 
claim into its risk assessment for Ls cover in error. This wasnt Xbridges fault. Because of 
this I dont think it reasonably needs to do anymore to resolve Ls complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman