DRN-2974968
The complaint
Miss S complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC told her that she couldnt cancel a
continuous payment authority (CPA) before any money was taken. And she complained
about poor service provided by Barclays.
 
What happened
Miss S contacted us as she wanted to block a payment due to come out of her account 
under a CPA. She had tried to cancel the subscription with the merchant, but it wouldnt
cancel.
Miss S said that Barclays had told her it couldnt stop this payment before the first payment
was taken, and that she couldnt complain about this either. She also said shed tried to use
the chat function on her mobile banking, to avoid a long wait on hold, but that didnt work
either. Shed had to wait on hold for almost an hour.
Our service told Barclays that Miss S was unhappy about this. Miss S then got back in touch
to say that Barclays had sent her a complaint response letter, and it had offered her £25 for
the problems shed had using the chat function on mobile banking. She said that the
payment had also now been stopped, but she was unhappy that shed been given the wrong
information previously. She still wanted us to look into what Barclays had done.
Barclays sent us the letter it wrote to Miss S in response to her complaint. That letter did say
that it couldnt stop the payments Miss S wanted to cancel before the first one was taken. It
said that Barclays could raise a chargeback once the payment had been taken, but if the
company could show that Miss S owed this money, then Barclays might have to pay the
company anyway.
When this complaint came to us, Barclays said that it had been wrong to say that it couldnt
cancel a CPA before any money was taken. Barclays said that it was able to cancel these
payments. They might still leave the account, but it would then refund any money taken.
But Barclays still said that if Miss S didnt cancel the contract with the company, then any
refund it had paid to Miss S might be taken back. So shed need to cancel the contract with
the company.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Barclays had given
Miss S some wrong information, but it had actually done what it was supposed to do, in
cancelling Miss Ss CPA. It had raised a pre-debit cancellation for Miss S in late December.
Unfortunately, the payment wasnt taken until later, so Miss S had to call back to get this
refunded. But he thought that although Barclays had made mistakes in how it handled this
situation, Miss S had suffered no detriment or financial loss. So he wouldnt ask Barclays to
do any more.
Miss S didnt agree. She said that she wasnt able to remember all the details of what had
gone wrong, so she couldnt put forward a strong argument. But she said she had been
inconvenienced by what Barclays had done. She wanted her complaint to be considered by
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to review and finalise.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
In its final response letter, Barclays said it was paying Miss S £25 because she 
hadnt been able to use chat on her banking app. But its internal notes say that this 
was because Miss Ss app wasnt the latest version. I understand Miss S got some 
help from Barclays to resolve a problem with little storage space on her phone. I dont 
think its Barclays fault that this didnt update automatically, and I do think it tried to 
help her with this.
I also note that Barclays has explained that Miss S would always have needed to call 
it anyway, because this wasnt something Barclays couldve resolved through a chat. 
And it has longer call waiting times as a result of the pandemic. I dont think Barclays 
had made a mistake here, and although Barclays has offered some compensation for 
this, I dont think this part of Miss Ss complaint should be upheld.
Miss S said she was also told by Barclays at one point that she couldnt raise a 
complaint about not being able to cancel a CPA. I think thats why she then asked us 
to intervene. But Miss S has understood that she could complain. Our service did 
then ensure that Barclays addressed Miss Ss complaint. And, as Miss S wasnt 
happy with its response, she would have always needed to come to us. I think this is 
an instance where Miss S hasnt been disadvantaged.
Our investigator didnt think the rest of this complaint should be upheld either, 
because he didnt think that Miss S was any worse off. Although Barclays had made 
mistakes in what it told Miss S, it had actually done what it was supposed to. So he 
didnt think it had to do any more.
But I dont think thats quite right. Ill explain why not.
I can see that Barclays did, in fact refund the payments that Miss S made. The first 
payment debited on 29 December, and Miss S complained on 12 January that she 
hadnt received a refund. That refund was paid on the same day. A second payment 
left her account on 25 January, and was refunded twice on 1 February. So Miss S 
wasnt worse off in the end. In fact, she was a little better off, because Barclays had 
made a mistake, and refunded her second payment twice.
But I think we ought also to take account of the fact that Miss S was quite clearly told 
Barclays wasnt going to cancel her CPA. She had the additional worry this caused.
I also have to take account of the fact that even when this case came to our service,
Barclays appears to have maintained its position that Miss S may end up having to 
pay this money to the company. In its letter to Miss S, and in its discussions with our 
service, Barclays has said that this money can still be taken back by the company if 
Miss S doesnt cancel her contract with it.
I think it is good practice for Barclays to tell Miss S to cancel the contract with the 
company if she can. Thats for two reasons.Firstly, it is actually very difficult for a bank to make sure no payments are taken 
under a CPA. This is just a practical problem to do with how CPAs are paid, and it 
affects lots of banks, not just Barclays. So banks often end up having to make a 
refund for money thats already been taken. If Miss S cancels her contract, shell 
avoid this inconvenience.
Secondly, theres always the possibility that Miss S could be in breach of her contract 
with the company, and if she doesnt pay, but doesnt cancel the contract, then its 
possible this might affect her credit file.
So telling Miss S to cancel her contract can be good advice.
But Barclays seems to be saying something different. It seems to me to be saying 
that it cant do anything to make sure this money isnt ultimately claimed by the 
company, if Miss S doesnt cancel her contract. And thats not right.
Once Miss S has told Barclays that she wants to cancel the CPA, Barclays remains
responsible for ensuring this money isnt taken, or if it is taken, that its refunded. 
Barclays cant require Miss S to cancel her contract as part of making sure the 
money for this subscription doesnt ultimately end up being debited from her card. I 
think Miss S has been given wrong advice about this, and this is also likely to have 
caused her concern.
I know Barclays has paid Miss S £25 in compensation. Additionally, it has refunded 
her twice for the January payment, meaning that shes received an extra £13.95. And 
because Barclays has referred to this duplicated payment in its discussions with us, I 
understand that Barclays has no plans to take this money back.
But I dont think what Barclays has done is enough to make up for what I think has 
gone wrong here. I think Barclays should make an additional payment of £61.05 now, 
to take the total that Miss S has received for this complaint up to £100. That will also 
mean that Barclays cant take its duplicated payment of £13.95 back in the future.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss S didnt reply. Barclays just said it agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss S £61.05 now, to take the 
total that Miss S has received for this complaint up to £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman