DRN-4474039
The complaint
Miss D complains about the communication from Toyota Insurance Management SE in 
relation to her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss D bought a car insurance policy online through Toyota Insurance. She was then asked 
for documents to verify the information she provided when taking out her car insurance 
policy. Toyota Insurance also wrote to Miss D to request this information. Miss D replied to 
the insurers requests but as Toyota Insurance hadnt received the information requested it 
asked for the information again. Miss D wasnt happy with the requests for information from 
Toyota Insurance and complained. 
Toyota Insurance reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the insurer had asked it 
to verify information given during the sale of the policy, in particular the insurer had asked 
about the amount of no claims discount (NCD) Miss D had declared, an undeclared claim, 
the outcome of a claim declared and also confirmation of who the registered keeper of the 
car was. Toyota Insurance explained that, as not all of this information was provided, it had 
re-requested it and extended the date for it to be provided. Toyota Insurance explained that, 
as the insurer had the information requested, it would be in touch about the next steps.
Miss D didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint here. She said shed provided all 
of the information asked for and said the tone of the e-mails and threatening to cancel the 
policy was distressing. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Toyota Insurance had requested 
different pieces of information from Miss D at different times. However, as this information 
was needed to verify the policy, she thought Toyota Insurance had acted fairly by requesting 
it via e-mail, texts and calls. Our Investigator also didnt agree the tone of the e-mails was 
inappropriate and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss D didnt agree, she said 
the tone of Toyotas e-mails wasnt appropriate and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
As Miss D didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my decision, I feel it would help to clarify what I can and cant consider in 
this decision. Miss D has complained against Toyota Insurance which is  the broker for her 
car insurance policy. The insurer is a different business to Toyota Insurance and therefore 
Im unable to comment on the actions of Miss Ds insurer in this decision. Ive also noted that 
since Miss D raised this complaint the policy has been cancelled and Miss D doesnt agree 
with how much she was charged for two months insurance. As these happened after Toyota 
Insurance issued its final response letter on 20 July 2023, these would need to be raised 
separately. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Ds policy, like most policies we see, say that information 
may be requested from Miss D to help validate the information given during the sale. Ive 
therefore looked at whether Toyota Insurance acted fairly and reasonably when doing this. 
I can see Miss D bought the insurance policy to start on 19 May 2023. Due to the information 
she provided during the sale, the insurer had some questions and wanted to verify the 
information given. So, Toyota contacted Miss D on 19 May 2023 and asked for a copy of the 
V5 for the car and also confirmation of Miss Ds NCD. Miss D replied on the same day and 
provided confirmation of her NCD, along with the new keeper slip of the V5. 
As the full V5 hadnt been provided Toyota Insurance sent Miss D a text on 22 May 2023 
referring to the letter and e-mail it had sent. Miss D replied via e-mail to query what this was 
about and asked for confirmation the information shed sent had been received. Toyota 
Insurance then wrote to Miss D on 2 June 2023 via e-mail and letter to confirm the 
information the insurer still needed. I can see Miss D replied on the same day with 
clarification around the information requested and referred to the previous document shed 
sent. 
As Toyota Insurance hadnt received the information requested it followed this up with a text 
message on 5 June 2023 and via letter and e-mail on 16 June 2023. The communication 
between Miss D and Toyota Insurance continued over the next few weeks until Toyota 
Insurance issued its final response on 20 July 2023, which confirmed it had now received 
everything requested and it had been passed to the insurer. 
Ive reviewed the correspondence between Miss D and Toyota Insurance. In doing so I can 
see Miss D has repeated information to Toyota Insurance, part of this was around the 
reason for not having the full V5 and the circumstances of the claim. However, I can also see 
as not all of the information requested had been provided, Toyota Insurance continued to 
request it. As the information related to claims made, NCD allowances and who the car was 
registered to Im satisfied it was reasonable for Toyota Insurance to try and obtain all of the 
information needed.  
I understand Miss D feels the communication wasnt appropriate, and I can see during that 
time there were multiple e-mails and text messages from Toyota Insurance. Given the 
insurer needed this information and it hadnt been provided, Im not persuaded Toyota 
Insurance acted unreasonably by requesting it. Ive reviewed the wording and the amount of 
contact Toyota Insurance sent, and while I understand communication can be interpreted 
differently by different people, Im not persuaded Toyota Insurance did anything wrong. So, it 
follows that Im not going to direct it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman