DRN-2593953
The complaint
Mr F and Ms W are unhappy as they say U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI)
didnt make them aware of a change of policy limits, which they only discovered when they
made a claim. They are also unhappy third parties contacted them on behalf of UKI about
the claim, and that they couldnt access their freezer until repairs were carried out.
What happened
Mr F and Ms W suffered a theft from the garage at their home, so they made a claim to UKI
under their household insurance policy.
UKI said the policy limit for a theft from outbuildings and garages was £1,000 which had
been reduced at renewal from £2,500. UKI said theyd made Mr F and Ms W aware of the
this. Mr F and Ms W dont believe this was made clear based on a leaflet theyd received,
and they said the limit for garages should be £2,500. They said if theyd known about the
reduction, they would have sought alternative cover to ensure they had adequate cover for
the garage.
Mr F and Ms W were also unhappy that they were contacted in relation to the claim by third
parties on behalf of UKI. They were also unable to access their freezer for a period of time
when their property was first made temporarily secure. So Mr F and Ms W complained to
UKI.
UKI said the change in policy limits was communicated in documents sent to Mr F and Ms W
at renewal. But they said the next steps in the claim and how and when the excess would be
payable should have been confirmed, so they paid £50 compensation.
As Mr F and Ms W were unhappy with UKIs position they approached this service.
Our investigator didnt ask UKI to do anything further. He accepted the leaflet only referred to
a change in the limits for outbuildings. However, he also considered the other documents
that were sent at renewal. He felt that these documents confirmed the limits for garages and
outbuildings had been amended, and that this had been highlighted.
He noted that Mr F and Ms W had said they hadnt received the other documents, but was
satisfied UKI had shown they had been sent. He was also satisfied that UKI had treated it as
a garage correctly when applying the policy limit.
Our investigator also said that he appreciated how frustrating not being able to access the
garage would be, but didnt think the overall timescale had been unreasonable. He also
noted UKI had given Mr F and Ms W the option of using their own contractor. He also said
its not unusual for third parties to be appointed by an insurer during the claim.
Following the initial assessment by the investigator, Mr F and Ms W received their renewal
documents for this year, which also referred to the higher limit for garages and outbuildings,
which said it would be reduced at renewal this year.
As Mr F and Ms W didnt agree with the investigator, they asked for a final decision from an
ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my thinking before I issued my 
final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy limits
Mr F and Ms W are unhappy that UKI has applied a policy limit of £1,000 to garages 
and outbuildings when they made a claim. They say garages should have a £2,500 
limit as UKI didnt make them aware that the limit for garages had been reduced, only 
outbuildings.
Mr F and Ms W have referred to a leaflet they received at renewal in 2019 titled 
Were making changes. In this it mentions after renewal that year the cover will be 
different. It lists a selection of different policy areas, and changes in policy limits to 
these areas. Within this, it includes Theft from outbuildings, the previous £2,500 and 
new £1,000 limit.
Having seen the leaflet, I agree it doesnt make reference to garages, only 
outbuildings. The leaflet also says, here are the changes to your cover limits, along 
with And were not hiding it in the small print which implies the changes to the policy 
limits were in this document. So taking into account this document in isolation, I can 
see why Mr F and Ms W were under the impression only the outbuilding limit had 
changed, and the original £2,500 limit for garages remained as in the policy terms 
they had.
But UKI says they sent further documents, which explained the reduction in policy 
cover for both outbuildings and garages. Mr F and Ms W say they didnt receive this, 
but UKI has shown it sent documents at renewal, so I cant hold UKI responsible for 
that. But Ive looked at these documents, and even if Mr F and Ms W had received 
these, looking at this in conjunction with the leaflet they received, I dont think the 
change was clearly communicated. Ill explain why.
The leaflet in isolation clearly lists some policy limit changes (which doesnt include 
garages  only outbuildings). The Important Information document which UKI sent at 
renewal is detailed; it lists many different changes to the policy wording, and different 
times when they would have come into effect throughout the year, albeit they 
wouldnt be applied until renewal.But the Important information only lists the new changes/wordings and not what its 
being changed from. So this would need to be read in conjunction with the old and 
new policy booklet side by side to be able to identify what had changed specifically 
from the old terms. And this appears to be a general document, with various points 
throughout the year where UKI had made changes, generally, to the terms. So it says 
when UKI made changes to the overall policy, rather than the specific impact and 
change Mr F and Mr W would have at renewal, such as highlighting a specific 
reduction in cover. Importantly here, it says:
With effect from the 14th August 2019, we have amended the following
wording:
Summary of policy limits  Contents (if selected)
Theft from outbuildings/garages
It seems to me that the Important information document refers to a change in the 
wording, rather than the limit. And having looked at the 2018 and 2019 full policy 
terms side by side, the word garage has been included alongside outbuildings in the 
policy documents where it wasnt listed before. In my view, this is the change being 
highlighted specifically in this document, rather than a reduction in the limit.
So even if Mr F and Ms W had received all the documents (which I cant hold UKI
responsible for if they didnt) alongside the leaflet, I dont think the garage limit 
change was clearly communicated. I think the leaflet was clear in itself in relation to 
outbuildings as it identified both old and new limits, but as Ive said, this didnt 
mention garages.
The first document (the leaflet) only communicated limit changes to the outbuilding. 
The associated Important information document only made reference to a wording 
change in the new terms, which would need to be read side by side with the old 
terms to understand what had changed. And its not until you then review the policy 
terms in their entirety that you see garages is grouped with outbuildings and both 
now have a limit of £1,000 when the change to garage limits specifically wasnt 
highlighted before. So, taking everything into account, I dont think it was made clear 
or highlighted to Mr F and Ms W that the limit for garages had been reduced.
UKI also has provided evidence of some renewal documents being sent, but its not 
clear at which point which of these were sent. The logs show various dates, for the 
renewal quote, chaser and acceptance, and UKI hasnt been able to demonstrate 
which documents were sent at which time. So if Mr F and Ms W were sent the leaflet 
at a different time to the new terms and Important information document (Im 
assuming they were as they have this document, but maintain they didnt receive the 
others) then different changes were communicated at different times, which in my 
view would have been even more difficult to understand.
Mr F and Ms W have said they were aware the limit was reducing for outbuildings 
and accepted that, but werent aware that the limit had been reduced for garages too. 
They say if UKI had made it clear then they wouldnt have renewed at that level of 
cover as they needed adequate cover for their garage. Im satisfied they wanted to 
keep the level of cover for garages they already had.So unless the responses to my provisional decision change things, Im minded to say 
UKI was correct in considering the claim under garages, but they should reconsider 
Mr F and Ms Ws claim and apply the higher £2,500 policy limit. If any additional cash 
settlement is made, 8% simple interest should be added from date of loss to date of 
settlement.
Having a claim itself will be distressing, but here UKI has reduced the claim 
settlement based on a claim limit which I dont think they clearly explained to 
Mr F and Ms W. So, Im also minded to say UKI should compensate Mr F and Ms W 
a further £100 for the additional distress and inconvenience they caused.
I also note that Mr F and Ms W have also just been sent a policy booklet this year at 
renewal which says the cover for garages and outbuildings would be reduced from 
£2,500 to £1,000. This has made the policy limits even more unclear. UKI has said 
that regardless of this, a higher limit cant be applied when it had already been 
reduced. But this document also implies that the limit at the time of loss was £2,500, 
and as I said, Im not minded to conclude the reduction from this was clearly 
highlighted previously.
UKI using third parties during the claim
Mr F and Ms W are also unhappy that they were contacted during the claim by third 
parties on behalf of UKI, which included the third party asking to collect the claim 
excess. However, its not uncommon for insurers to appoint third parties to handle 
parts of a claim on their behalf. And sometimes the excess is collected by third 
parties appointed by the insurer.
But UKI has acknowledged that this could have been made clearer and it offered £50
compensation for this. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances for not 
communicating the next steps clearly.
Access to the freezer
Mr F and Ms W are also unhappy that they couldnt access their freezer after the 
emergency securing of the garage took place until a permanent fix could be 
completed, around a week later.
I appreciate this will have been inconvenient for Mr F and Ms W. But when they 
made UKI aware of this on the day of the temporary securing, UKI offered for 
Mr F and Ms W to appoint their own locksmith if they were able to do the works 
sooner, but they declined to take up this offer. So whilst this would have been 
inconvenient for Mr F and Ms W, Im satisfied that UKI offered a reasonable 
alternative in the circumstances.
So I was minded to conclude that UKI should reconsider Mr F and Ms Ws claim applying the 
£2,500 limit to garages and adding 8% simple interest from date of loss to date of settlement 
if any additional cash settlement was paid. I also said that in addition to the £50 already paid, 
I was minded to say UKI should pay a further £100 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr F and Ms W responded and accepted my provisional decision. They didnt provide any 
further comments in response to it.UKI also responded accepting my provisional decision, and didnt make any further 
comments either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the provisional findings I reached and I havent changed my 
mind. As both parties accepted my provisional findings and didnt make any further 
comments, Ive no reason to depart from those. So my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold the complaint in part and direct U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Privilege to:
Reconsider Mr F and Ms Ws claim applying the £2,500 limit to garages
Add 8% simple interest* from date of loss to date of settlement if any additional cash 
settlement is paid
In addition to the £50 compensation already paid, to pay a further £100 
compensation to Mr F and Ms W
*If U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr F and Ms W, it should tell them 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F and Ms W a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman