DRN-3806536
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) handled a home insurance claim 
for damage at their property caused by a car crashing into it. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
The events in this case are well known to both parties, so Ill only set out a summary of what 
happened here.
In September 2019 a car crashed into Mr B and Mrs Bs property, causing damage, including 
to a bay window at the front of the property. QIC arranged for a structural engineer to assess 
the damage and appointed a contractor (I) to carry out the necessary repair work, including 
rebuilding the wall under the window, as well as replacing the window (and the first-floor 
bedroom window above it). Work began in November 2019 and continued into the new year, 
being completed in March 2020. During this time Mr B and Mrs B chose to live at a relatives 
property (and were paid an inconvenience allowance by QIC). 
However, the repairs werent carried out properly and Mr B and Mrs B contacted QIC in 
March 2021, saying there was damp coming through the bay window. Following inspection 
of the window, QIC accepted the repair work had to be re-done, including the rebuilding of 
the bay window wall and replacement of the windows. However, Mr B and Mrs B were 
unhappy at I re-doing the work and asked for the original structural engineer to inspect the 
property. However, he wasnt available, so a second engineer was appointed (June 2021). 
The work was scheduled to start in September 2021. 
But there were further problems with the measuring, profiling and fitting of the glass for the 
windows. The wrong glass was ordered and there were several other snagging issues. The 
work took until February 2022 to be completed. Given the length of time the work had taken, 
the problems with the work and it needing to be re-done, Mr B and Mrs B complained to QIC. 
Given the stress and inconvenience to them (and the relative with whom theyd stayed 
during the work) they asked for a total of £3,000 in compensation (£1,000 for each of the 
three of them).
QIC didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response QIC apologised for the failures of I to 
complete repairs satisfactorily. While some snagging might have been expected given the 
complexity of the work, the issues encountered far exceeded what could have been 
expected. QIC noted I had rebuilt the window and associated works to a satisfactory 
standard. Having reviewed what happened, QIC offered £1,000 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience. They accepted theyd asked for £3,000 - but didnt feel it appropriate. 
QIC also noted theyd offered alternative accommodation to Mr B and Mrs B during the 
rectification works but they wanted to remain at the property to monitor the work.
Mr B and Mrs B then complained to this service. They were unhappy at how QIC had 
handled their claim and the time taken for repairs to the window to be completed (in total, 
some two and a half years  having initially being told the repairs would take six weeks). 
They were also unhappy at staying in their property with the window boarded up (as they 
didnt feel secure) and no disturbance allowance was paid during the second repair period.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, thinking QICs compensation offer reasonable 
in the circumstances. He noted there were unavoidable delays in the repair and then the 
work to re-do the repair due to the Covid pandemic and availability of structural engineers. 
But there were some seven months of avoidable delays and the quality of the work was 
poor, meaning it had to be re-done (and the snagging issues). This caused substantial 
distress and inconvenience to Mr B and Mrs B. But he thought QICs compensation offer fair 
and in line with other cases considered by this service.
Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They said the case had taken over two and a half years from the date of the 
original incident and caused them huge financial, emotional and mental distress. They said 
theyd been told initially the repair would take six weeks to complete, which is why they 
stayed with a relative, rather than alternative accommodation. However, the repair took six 
months. In which they had little or no communication with the contractor, together with 
attending the property only for contractors not to arrive. There was also a leak from the 
bedroom above the window (caused by poor workmanship) damaging replastered walls.
They also said there were delays in appointing a structural engineer, whose report 
concluded the initial repair had to be redone because of the poor quality of the repair. The 
bay window was also initially fitted incorrectly and the replacement window measured 
incorrectly, leading to further problems. When the second new window was delivered, it 
didnt come with the right glass and so had to be boarded up.
Given all these points, they didnt think £1,000 was sufficient compensation for the delays, 
poor service and the consequent upheaval and stress. They thought £6,000 would be fair for 
what theyd experienced.
In my findings, I considered the views of Mr B and Mrs B and QIC on what they respectively 
thought would be fair and reasonable compensation. Given the significance of the damage I 
thought it doubtful the initial work would have taken the six weeks Mr B and Mrs B said they 
were told it would take. But equally, I thought they could reasonably have expected the work 
to be completed earlier than it was (March 2020).
The issues with the quality of the initial repair work only became apparent a year after the 
initial work was completed and there were delays while QIC sought the original structural 
engineer requested by Mr B and Mrs B. There further delays and together with snagging 
issues, this meant the work wasnt finally completed until nearly a further year. Had the 
repair work been carried out properly in the first place, none of the subsequent time taken to 
re-do the work would have been necessary.
Given that, I thought Mr B and Mrs B suffered substantial distress, upset and worry and 
serios disruption to their daily life over many months (in total, over a year including the time 
taken for the work to be re-done. Given these factors, I thought a figure higher than the 
£1,000 offered by QIC was merited. Taking all the circumstances into account, I thought 
£1,500 would be fair and reasonable.
As I reached a different conclusion to that of our investigator on the level of compensation 
for distress and inconvenience, I issued a provisional decision to provide both parties with 
the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyId first want to say I appreciate what Mr B and Mrs B have said about the impact of what 
happened has had on them. Having a car crash into their property and cause the significant 
damage Ive seen from the photographs would have been traumatic. And then for the repair 
work to take much longer than theyd expected  as well as needing to be re-done  would 
have been very stressful over the significant length of time taken for the work to be carried 
out to an appropriate standard. Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether QIC have 
acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B.
The main element of Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint is what would be fair and reasonable 
compensation for the undoubted stress and inconvenience theyve suffered. When they 
initially complained to QIC they thought £1,000 for each of them (and £1,000 for their 
relative) would be fair. In disagreeing with our investigators view theyve said that a higher 
figure (£6,000) would be appropriate. For their part, QIC accept things havent gone well for 
Mr B and Mrs B and have apologised for the failures of their contractor to complete repairs 
satisfactorily at the first time. They also say some snagging was likely, given the extent of 
the damage and the consequent complexity of the work to rebuild the bay window wall and 
replace the windows. But they also accept the issues encountered far exceeded what could 
have been expected. 
 
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the available information and evidence. 
Ive noted the initial repair took six months to complete from the date of the incident in 
September 2019 (with the work itself starting in November 2019). Given the significance of 
the damage I think it was doubtful the work would have taken the six weeks Mr B and Mrs B 
said they were told it would take (also given the time of year, when the weather would have 
been less favourable). But equally, I think Mr B and Mrs B could reasonably have expected 
the work to have been completed somewhat earlier than it was (March 2020).
From what Ive seen of the sequence of events, the issues with the quality of the initial repair 
work only became apparent a year after the initial work was completed (March 2021, 
following initial completion in March 2020). There were the delays while QIC sought the 
original structural engineer requested by Mr B and Mrs B. But he wasnt available, so a 
second engineer had to be appointed (June 2021). Then work to re-do the repair started (or 
was planned to start) in September 2021. But the issues described above meant further 
delays and the windows having to be boarded up as the correct glass wasnt sent. Together 
with other snagging issues, this meant the work wasnt finally completed (to a reasonable 
standard) until February 2022, nearly a year after the issues with the original work became 
apparent. Had the repair work been carried out properly in the first place, none of the 
subsequent time taken to re-do the work would have been necessary.
Given this, its clear Mr B and Mrs B have suffered substantial distress, upset and worry and 
serios disruption to their daily life. While they stayed with a relative for the first repair period 
(and received an inconvenience allowance from QIC) taken together with the impact of the 
time taken for the work to be re-done, this led to disruption over many months (in total, over 
a year including the time taken for the work to be re-done  which wouldnt have been 
necessary had the repair work been done properly in the first place.
Ive thought carefully about what would be fair and reasonable compensation given these 
circumstances. While we wouldnt consider compensation for the relative (as they arent a 
complainant in the case) I think a figure higher than the £1,000 offered by QIC is merited. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £1,500 would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint in part. I intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:Pay Mr B and Mrs B £1,500 in compensation for inconvenience). 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
B and Mrs B accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Mr B and Mrs B responded to accept the provisional decision. QIC responded to ask for 
clarification of the provisional decision to increase the proposed compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. A response was provided to QIC, after which they accepted the 
proposed increase in compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B.
As both QIC and Mr B and Mrs B have accepted the provisional decision, then my final 
decision remains unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint in 
part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £1,500 in compensation for inconvenience). 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
B and Mrs B accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman