DRN-2182364
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by the Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B took out a new mortgage with Nationwide in April 1999 and at the same time 
purchased a PPI policy. There is very limited information and documentation available about 
the PPI, including who it covered and how long it may have been active. 
Mr B and Mrs B complained to Nationwide that the PPI was mis-sold but Nationwide didnt 
uphold their complaint. Nationwide also considered if any excess commissions and profit 
share had been charged on the premiums that needed to be repaid. It said that the mortgage 
Mr B and Mrs B took out didnt fall within the rules about this and no refund for this was due.
Mr B and Mrs B were unhappy with what Nationwide said so brought their complaint to this 
service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020, setting out the reasons why I 
didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold.
Nationwide has provided no further comment or information.
Mr B and Mrs B have responded saying they do not agree with my findings, indicating they 
feel the costs of the PPI were hidden in the mortgage payment, that there should have been 
separate paperwork if they had agreed to take out the PPI and they didnt take out PPI on 
any other loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Mrs Bs case. And I have also taken into 
account the comments received from Mr B and Mrs B in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr B and Mrs B complained the PPI policy they took out in 1999 was mis-sold. They say 
they didnt know they had PPI and only found out about it after checking, when hearing 
about PPI being mis-sold. Mr B and Mrs B say they wouldnt have knowingly taken it out as 
they didnt think they needed it. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, PPI wasnt always mis-sold. There were 
restrictions on claims, as there are with all insurance policies. But the benefits of a policy 
could be of value to consumers when they were unable to work due to sickness, accident or 
unemployment. The restrictions however depended upon individual circumstances and some 
consumers were affected and so would be unable to claim for some of the benefits. So, the 
policy may then have been mis-sold.
I have also noted the comments that Mr B and Mrs B say they didnt have PPI on any other 
loans. That may well be the case. But we have to consider the individual circumstances of 
each complaint and a mortgage, and the possibility of losing your home if you cannot make 
repayments, may also make people think differently about different products and what cover 
they may want. 
In 1999 Mr B and Mrs B took out a mortgage in joint names and it seems at the same time 
applied for a PPI policy. There is very little evidence and few records now available about 
the sale. Mr B and Mrs B have been unable to provide any documents from the time. 
Nationwide have some basic computer records and information about the mortgage, 
including a copy of the mortgage application form. But there is very little information and 
documentation relating to the PPI from the time. The fact that neither party has any actual 
documents isnt surprising considering this was over 20 years ago.
Following completion of the mortgage on 14 April 1999, a letter with that date was sent to 
Mr B and Mrs B. This indicated the mortgage funds had been released and the letter goes 
on to set out the first months payment and the ongoing monthly payments. This letter 
indicates that PPI was sold. It sets out the regular monthly payment for the premium, which 
was to be taken with the mortgage repayment, was £46.63. Other documents would have 
been sent at the time to Mr B and Mrs B about the PPI, and samples of these documents 
have been provided. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr B and Mrs B say the premium for the PPI was 
hidden in their mortgage payment and never showed as being taken on their bank 
statements. But this letter in April 1999 clearly set out how much the PPI premium was and 
also that it would be taken with the monthly mortgage payment. So, at this time it was made 
clear the PPI had been taken out, how much the premium was each month and how that 
premium was to be collected.
I do not know what may have been said to Mr B and Mrs B by the Nationwide representative 
at the time they applied for the mortgage and PPI. Mr B and Mrs B say they didnt know they 
had the PPI, but the cost is clearly set out in the payment schedule that was provided to 
them and indicates they did take it out. So they must have known something about it at the 
time. And if they didnt know what that monthly payment was for, as shown on the letter and 
payments schedule, then I assume they would have contacted Nationwide to find out about 
it.
If Mr B and Mrs B agreed to the insurance, then later decided they didnt want the cover, its 
possible it may have been cancelled shortly after the mortgage was taken out. But there is 
no evidence as to when the policy was cancelled. The records from Nationwide indicate it 
was not being paid in April 2008 when the full data about the monthly payments is available. 
So it was certainly cancelled before April 2008. And as the mortgage was ongoing, the PPI 
would have been cancelled at some point by Mr B and Mrs B.
A copy of Mr B and Mrs Bs mortgage application form has been provided by Nationwide, so 
I have considered the information provided in that. I have also taken into account what Mr B 
and Mrs B said about their circumstances, when considering if the PPI was mis-sold.
Mr B and Mrs B have responded to my provisional decision indicating they think a separate 
form should have been completed and signed at the time if they had agreed to take out the 
PPI. In fact, the process at the time indicates that a separate application form for the PPI would have been completed. As the policy was cancelled before 2008 this documentation is 
no longer available, but Mr B and Mrs B would have completed a separate form for the PPI.  
The mortgage application form has a section with the heading Paymentscover which 
indicates this will help meet monthly mortgage costs in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It then says We will give you details of the Scheme. So on this mortgage 
application form the PPI is not selected or applied for. Information would have been 
provided, as indicated, about the PPI, but a separate application form would have been 
required to be completed for the PPI.
As there is no copy of the actual application form completed for the PPI available it is unclear 
if the PPI was taken out to cover both Mr B and Mrs B or just one of them. I can see from the 
mortgage application that it is stated Mrs B was self-employed. Our adjudicator upheld this 
complaint on the basis Mrs B was self-employed as the restrictions for those who were self-
employed meant the consumer would be unlikely to be able to make a successful 
unemployment claim.
However, on the mortgage application form I can also see that there is no information 
recorded to show what Mrs Bs income was at the time in her self-employed work. I think this 
indicates that the mortgage was being applied for based solely on Mr Bs income, not on 
Mrs Bs self-employed earnings.
It would follow that if Mr B and Mrs B were relying solely on Mr Bs income to pay the 
mortgage, then if he was unable to work, they may have problems in making the monthly 
repayments. As Mrs Bs income wasnt taken into account when applying for the mortgage, I 
cannot see why PPI cover would have been taken out to cover her loss of income. So I think 
this policy was most likely taken out solely to cover Mr B if he was unable to work. 
Without any direct evidence to indicate differently I cannot see the evidence provided 
indicates Mrs B would have been covered by the policy. Therefore, if she was not covered 
under the policy, which I think is most likely, her work status as self-employed is not relevant 
when considering if the policy was mis-sold.
Looking at the situation of Mr B, he was employed, has some employment benefits and had 
no pre-existing medical conditions at the time the PPI was taken out. So it seems he would 
not have been caught by any restrictions of the policy and should have been able to make a 
successful claim if he had needed to.
I note Mr B and Mrs B say they didnt know they had the policy and would have claimed on it 
in 2008 if they had known. As I have already indicated I think Mr B and Mrs B should have 
been aware of the PPI at the time the policy was taken out. Also, it is unclear when the PPI 
was cancelled, but it wasnt active in April 2008. So it seems most likely they would not have 
had the policy in place to make a claim when Mr B was made unemployed.
I cannot be sure exactly what was said to Mr B and Mrs B when they took out the policy, but 
I think they most likely were aware of it and agreed to take out the policy as they thought it 
would be useful if Mr B was unable to work. 
Looking at if the policy was suitable to provide Mr B with cover, I cannot see he would have 
been caught by any restrictions, so it appears it was suitable. I note he had some 
employment sickness benefits if he was off work and may have received a basic redundancy 
payment if made unemployed. But the PPI policy would have paid out in addition to any work 
benefits or redundancy. And would have been useful to pay the mortgage at what could 
have been a difficult time if Mr B was not working for any reason. I have above addressed the points raised by Mr B and Mrs B in response to my provisional 
decision. And I have seen nothing in the responses to indicate the findings I made in that 
provisional decision should be changed. 
It therefore follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Nationwide. I think at the time it is 
most likely Mr B and Mrs B were aware they had a choice whether to take it out and they 
chose to do so as they thought it would be useful.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by Nationwide. However, the type of mortgage 
Mr B and Mrs B took out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the 
Financial Conduct Authority relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due 
to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Nationwide Building 
Society and Im not upholding this complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman