DRN-4105109
The complaint
Mr U complains that Inclusive Finance limited trading as Creditspring lent irresponsible when 
it approved borrowing 2021 and 2022. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr U applied for a Creditspring membership that gave him access to a 
credit facility. Creditspring approved Mr Us application and said he could take up to two 
advances of £250 in a 12 month period. Mr U took the first advacen on 12 March 2021 and 
repaid it in full on 25 March 2021. Mr U took the second advance of £250 on 27 March 2021 
and repaid it on 28 April 2021. 
On 29 April 2021 Mr U went back to Creditspring and was approved for another credit facility 
that gave him access to two advances of up to £250 in a 12 month period. Mr U took the first 
£250 advance on 1 May 2021 and repaid it on 7 May 2021. The second advance of £250 
was taken on 12 May 2021 and repaid on the same day. Mr U asked Creditspring to 
withdraw his membership which meant the borrowing wasnt recorded on his credit file. 
On 13 September 2022 Mr U applied for another membership which was approved by 
Creditspring. An advance of £250 was taken and Mr U made repayments in line with the 
credit agreement. 
In November 2022 Mr U complained to Creditspring that it had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved the borrowing in his name. Creditspring issued a final response but didnt agree it 
had lent irresponsibly. Creditspring said it had carried out affordability checks based on the 
information Mr U had supplied in his applications and details it found on his credit file. 
Creditspring advised all borrowing was approved in line with its lending criteria. 
Mr U referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Creditspring had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to lend 
and didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. Mr U asked to appeal and said his credit file wouldve 
shown a large number of searches in addition to payday loans in the months before he 
approached Creditspring in September 2022. As Mr U asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when reviewing Mr Us complaint. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
As a lending relationship continues over time and the level of credit increases, lenders may 
need to obtain further information from a borrower to check whether theyre lending 
responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the customer.
On each occasion Mr U applied to Creditspring he gave details of his income, living situation 
and costs, regular outgoings and costs to service other debts. In addition, Creditspring 
completed credit searches to get a picture of Mr Us finances and how much he owed 
elsewhere. I think its also fair to note that whilst Mr U was applying for credit, the amounts 
involved were reasonably modest and each facility was limited to two advances of £250 in a 
12 month period each time. Overall, Im satisfied that it was reasonable and proportionate for 
Creditspring to rely on the information Mr U provided in his applications and on his credit file 
when assessing his ability to make repayments. 
I think its fair to add that when Mr U applied for the second and third memberships hed built 
up a good track record with Creditspring. Both the first and second memberships were 
repaid early and in advance of the scheduled repayments.
Mr Us response to our investigator said he had payday loans and a large number of credit 
searches on his credit file when he applied for the third membership in September 2022. Ive 
looked at Mr Us credit file and whilst there are credit cards and unsecured loans noted, I 
didnt see evidence of a large number of payday loans. In addition, whilst credit searches 
can be seen, the majority are noted as being for quotation purposes. Searches of that nature 
are also known as soft searches and arent visible to businesses when looking at a credit 
file. That means the majority of the searches Ive seen on Mr Us credit file wouldnt have 
been visible to Creditspring when it looked at his applications. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr U but as Im satisfied Creditspring dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman