DRN-3497268
The complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC will not refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr A made payments to an individual hed met through social media. He lost 
over £9,000. 
When Mr A phoned the bank to raise a dispute, he said hed offered to help a friend who was 
going through problems and that shed promised to pay him back. Mr A said shed asked him 
for small amounts of money which then kept getting bigger. She didnt repay any of the 
money and blocked Mr A from being able to contact her.
Metro tried to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank, but none remained. Metro 
investigated Mr As scam claim and said it was not responsible for refunding the loss. The 
bank felt it had provided effective warnings to not send money when you do not know the 
person. It considered Mr A could be held liable for the loss because he was sending money 
to someone hed never met and had only communicated with over messages. 
In his complaint form to this service, Mr A explained that hed entered into an investment 
contract and that hed been deceived into investing large sums of money. Our Investigator 
asked Mr A questions to understand the situation. Mr A explained hed spoken to the 
fraudster on a video call which had given him reassurance as he thought fraudsters would 
try and find ways not to do this. He said she was a good person and that he wanted to help 
her. 
The Investigator said Metro was not liable for reimbursing Mr As loss. She didnt think Metro 
should have stopped the payments from being made as they were unremarkable and not out 
of character when compared to the way Mr As account typically ran. She also did not think 
that the bank should have refunded the loss under the CRM Code. She said that there was 
no evidence which reasonably explains why Mr A trusted the fraudster as they had never 
met and what the fraudster was saying was largely implausible. 
Mr A disagreed. His response to the view said that hed been the victim of an investment 
scam and that the bank had failed to warn him of the risks associated with cryptocurrency 
investing. But Mr A later explained the response had been written on his behalf and he was 
the victim of a romance scam.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr A, but having considered everything, I can see no basis on 
which I can fairly and reasonably require Metro to refund the money that hes lost. I will 
explain why. 
Mr A does not dispute that he made the payments. This means they were authorised by him 
and the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that it is Mr A rather 
than Metro that is responsible for them. For me to say that Metro is responsible for 
reimbursing Mr A, I would need to be satisfied that: 
 Metro ought reasonably to have recognised Mr A was at risk of financial harm from fraud at 
the time he was making the payments and their failure to intervene has caused his loss; or
 Mr A ought to be reimbursed under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(The CRM Code) that Metro has signed up to 
The payments Mr A made were unremarkable. They didnt stand out enough from his typical 
spending patterns for me to be able to fairly say that Metro should have been concerned that 
he might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the times he sent the money. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether Mr A should have received a refund of the money that 
he lost under the CRM Code. The CRM Code is designed to reimburse victims of authorised 
push payment scams. Metro has signed up to the CRM Code and it was in force when Mr A 
made the payments. This means Metro has made a commitment to reimburse customers 
who are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances.
Metro says it can choose not to reimburse Mr A. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions 
to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this 
case. From what I have seen, Mr A failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM 
Code for the payments he made. I dont think he had a reasonable basis for believing the 
person he was sending money to was legitimate.
The information Mr A has provided about the payments and their surrounding circumstances 
is inconsistent and contradicts, making it difficult to work out what happened in this case. 
The extracts of the conversations Mr A has been able to provide dont have any obvious 
connection to investing in cryptocurrency, so it seems more likely than not that he did 
befriend someone online. 
But the situation seems to have escalated quickly. From what Mr A has told us, he first sent 
money to the fraudster on the same day that they started speaking. Although Mr A explained 
that they had spoken on video call very quickly after connecting, I have not seen any 
evidence to suggest that the fraudster had been able to build significant trust and rapport 
with Mr A before he sent more funds. The fraudster had not provided any evidence to Mr A 
to show that they were potentially in a position to repay the funds. Mr A also continued to 
send money to the fraudster despite the fact she had not returned any of the earlier amounts 
borrowed.
  
Mr A explains that:
I continued to make payments to her after I said I aint got money back from yet because 
yes she hadnt payed me back but at the same time I thought maybe if I helped her to 
retrieve her moneyshe would pay me back eventually. [sic]
From what I have seen, Mr A did not make sufficient checks to see if he was dealing with a 
legitimate person. He took the situation at face value and placed a lot of trust in a person that he didnt know. In addition, the predicaments the fraudster described were implausible, 
which is something that Mr A has since recognised:
There were a lot of payments but the big amounts I sent her i.e. £2000 or over were for like 
the policy in her countrywhere you had to pay upfront money to lawyers to take out your 
money in your account which now I think was silly. All the amounts like £150, 200 were for 
food accommodation, plane ticket etc. Even the plane ticket I sent her like £1000. [sic]
Overall, I think Mr A should have had significant concerns about the payments he was 
making. There were red flags that this person was not being straight with him, such as 
changing payment methods and using someone elses bank card, and this ought reasonably 
to have led Mr A to take a more cautious approach. By not doing so, Mr A fell below the level 
of care expected of him under the CRM Code. 
Ive also thought about whether Metro met its standards under the CRM Code. Whilst Mr A 
has lost a lot to the scam overall, I dont believe each individual payment he made stood out 
enough so that Metro should have identified a scam risk and provided an effective warning. 
This means I dont need to consider whether the information Metro showed at the time the 
payments were made meets the standards required by the CRM Code. 
Ive looked at the steps Metro took when it found out about the scam. Theres no debate that 
it should have acted more quickly than it did. But Metros delay did not impact on Mr As 
chances of trying to recover funds from the receiving accounts. The money hed sent had 
already left the recipient accounts before his first contact with the bank. 
Having looked at everything, I dont think Metro treated Mr A unfairly when it concluded it 
was not responsible for refunding the money hes lost. For the reasons I have explained, Im 
satisfied Mr A isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds 
on which I could say that Metro should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for 
Mr As loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman