DRN-3719749
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys), acting as policy administrator, failed
to tell him his motor insurance policy had been cancelled resulting in a fine, penalty points
and further costs when his car was impounded.
What happened
Mr T says in November 2021 he was pulled over by the police for driving without insurance.
His car was impounded, and he received points on his licence. He complained to
Sainsburys as he had paid his premium a few days prior to being pulled over. Mr T says it
agreed it had made a mistake and paid him £270 for the impound fee and £100
compensation.
Mr T says he incurred additional costs for impound insurance and £60 to set up another
insurance policy. He says this meant he had to borrow money from his family to pay the
fees, and also pay for presents for his daughter over Christmas.
In its response to Mr Ts complaint in December 2021 Sainsburys says the policy was
cancelled on the day he called to pay his outstanding premium. It accepts the agent he
spoke to didnt tell him about this. It says that it arranged for an indemnity letter from the
insurer for the period from 1 November to 10 November. Sainsburys also offered Mr T £100
compensation.
Mr T wasnt satisfied. He didnt think this did enough to compensate for the problems hed
experienced. Sainsburys wrote to Mr T again in February 2022. It says there was no error
with the cancellation as its letters confirmed payment must be paid by 1 November 2021. But
in recognition of its agents omission to confirm the cancellation, it offered to pay £270 for the
costs Mr T had incurred, in addition to its offer of £100 compensation.
Mr T didnt accept Sainsburys offer and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint. He says the business had written to Mr T, twice prior to
the policy cancellation. So, he didnt think it had acted unfairly. He thought it was fair that
Sainsburys paid for the vehicle towing and storage costs but didnt think its offer of
compensation was enough.
Our investigator says the indemnity letter wasnt supplied until around eight weeks after Mr T
was pulled over by the police. And the refund of fees wasnt agreed until several months
after that. He accepted Mr T had been caused stress and upset and that he had been left
short of money over the Christmas period, meaning he had to borrow money to buy his
daughter presents. Because of this he thought £500 compensation was appropriate.
Mr T agreed, but Sainsburys thought its original offer was fair and asked for an ombudsman
to review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ts complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Let me explain.
Sainsburys has provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr T in October 2021. Ive read these
letters to understand what he was told. The first explains that his Direct Debit payment was
rejected. It says a further attempt to collect the monies will be tried in five days. Alternatively,
it says Mr T can pay by phone. The letter says if the next collection isnt successful, and it
hasnt heard from him, it will begin the process of cancelling his policy.
The letter says:
If you have not paid the outstanding amount by the 2nd November 2021 both your credit
agreement and insurance policy will end on that date.
The second letter dated 20 October 2021 says the second attempt to collect payment had
failed and a total payment of £95.10 is owed. The letter says:
To keep your policy in force, you will need to bring your payments up to date before the 1st
November 2021 or your car insurance will be cancelled by us.
The dates on which cancellation of the policy will be carried out differs between these two
letters. The first says payment must be made by 2 November 2021. Whilst, the second says
payment must be provided before 1 November.
I can see that Mr T called Sainsburys on 1 November 2021. Ive listened to this call. Mr T
asks to pay his insurance premium, and says he has until tomorrow to do this. It appears he
is referring to the date advised in the earlier of the two letters he received. The agent makes
no attempt to correct Mr Ts understanding and takes the payment. Mr T then asks about
updating his mobile number so he can pay online in future. The agent struggles to do this
and asks for Mr Ts phone number so he can call him back. The call is then ended.
During this call there is no mention by Sainsburys agent that the policy has already been
cancelled. Mr T mentions paying his insurance so he can drive his car and clearly states he
has until tomorrow to pay his monthly premium. Having listened carefully to this call I can
understand why Mr T thought he was still insured having made this payment. I think its
reasonable to expect Sainsburys agent to have told Mr T that his policy had already been
cancelled. Its not clear why this didnt happen given the significance of this information and
the discussion that took place.
I acknowledge the second letter Mr T received in October 2021 says that payment must be
made before 1 November 2021. But this isnt what the first letter said. It appears Mr T either
didnt notice the different date or didnt read the second letter prior to contacting Sainsburys.
But I would still expect the significant point that the policy had been cancelled, to be
mentioned to him during the call.
Mr T shouldve read and acted on the later letter, which makes it clear the policy will cancel
on 1 November 2021, and payment must be provided prior to this. So, I dont think
Sainsburys acted unfairly by relying on its policy terms and cancelling his policy. But I dothink its agents failure to tell him about the cancellation during the call, indicated to Mr T that
he was insured to drive. This call lasted eleven minutes and there was plenty of opportunity
for the agent to inform Mr T that he was no longer insured. A few days after the call he was
pulled over by the police for driving without insurance. I think this was avoidable.
Sainsburys arranged for an indemnity letter to be provided by Mr Ts insurer. My
understanding is that this allowed him to demonstrate he had insurance cover in place and
meant he avoided penalty points and a fine.
However, Mr T says he had to pay for temporary insurance cover whilst his car was
impounded and in order to have it released. He says this is something that was
recommended to him by the police. Ive seen the documentation Mr T supplied, which shows
he paid £360 for this temporary cover. I acknowledge that as Mr T had no insurance cover,
he needed this in order to insure and retrieve his car.
Having considered all this, I think Sainsburys is responsible for Mr Ts car being impounded.
This caused him to incur towing and storage costs, in addition to the cost of temporary
insurance. Sainsburys has refunded the towing and storage costs, which I think is fair. But
to fully compensate Mr T for his financial loss its reasonable that it also covers the cost of
the temporary insurance.
Ive also thought about the impact all of this had on Mr T. Had Sainsburys agent acted
reasonably and told Mr T that his policy was cancelled, he wouldnt have been pulled over by
the police or had to attend court with the trouble and upset this caused. In addition, he lost
the use of his car and had the stress of having it released and getting temporary insurance
cover in place. I have no reason to doubt Mr Ts account that he was left short of money,
given the costs incurred. And that this meant getting a loan from his family, to buy Christmas
presents for his daughter. I think £500 compensation in total is fair to acknowledge these
issues.
I dont think Sainsburys is responsible for the setup costs for Mr Ts new insurance. His
policy was cancelled in line with his policy terms. Any costs incurred in setting up a new
policy are for him to pay.
In summary I dont think Sainsburys treated Mr T fairly. Its agent shouldve told him his
policy was cancelled during the call. As a result, it should put him back in the position he was
in prior to the police pulling him over. This means paying the cost of his temporary insurance
and paying £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc should:
pay Mr T £360 to cover the cost of his temporary insurance; and 
pay Mr T £500 compensation for the upset, stress, and inconvenience he was 
caused. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr T responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
Sainsburys also responded to say that it didnt have any further points to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. Sainburys Insurance Plc should:
pay Mr T £360 to cover the cost of his temporary insurance; and 
pay Mr T £500 compensation for the upset, stress, and inconvenience he was 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman