DRN-4459949
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clear Capital Markets Ltd (CCM) gave him unsuitable investment 
advice. He says, in summary, that:
He was advised to invest in high-risk stocks which werent suitable for him as a medium-
risk client.
CCM sold his shares at a loss without his agreement  he didnt know it could do this.
CCM couldve sold his shares at a profit, and he shouldve been able to choose when to 
sell because he didnt have a discretionary account. 
What happened
Mr E opened an advisory share dealing account with CCM in or around November 2020. 
He was assessed as having a medium attitude to risk and his investment objective was 
capital growth. He held other investments and had experience of dealing in shares, including 
AIM stocks. In the initial phone calls before and during account opening, Mr E said he was 
interested in AIM stocks, accelerated book building and placings. And he asked about 
extended settlement and whether he could invest more than he held in the account. 
After opening the account, CCM recommended two placings in AIM stocks. In December 
2020, Mr E invested £20,000, plus commission, in a company I will refer to as V. In March 
2021, Mr E invested £20,000 plus commission in a company I will refer to as M. In both 
cases Mr E invested more than he held in his account, with a total of £20,000 credit being 
provided by CCM via its third-party provider. Settlement was for T+10, the intention being to 
sell quickly at a profit before the shares had to be paid for. 
Some V shares were sold at a small profit. Mr E wanted to keep the remainder in the hope 
that the price would rise. But he says CCM sold the shares at a loss, without telling him. 
Mr E says he left the sale of M shares in the advisors hands, but that a sale didnt take place 
when the shares were showing a profit. Following a conversation with the advisor, Mr E said 
he wanted to keep the shares in the hope that the price would rise. But he says CCM sold 
the shares at a loss without telling him. 
CCM said Mr E had experience of trading this way and had been made aware of, and 
agreed to, the risks. It said it had no choice but to close out Mr Es positions because the 
account was in loan balance; in other words, the trades settled with insufficient funds in the 
account to cover the balance. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that:
He couldnt conclude that CCM had given Mr E unsuitable advice, based on his 
circumstances at the time, his capacity for loss, and his previous investment experience.
CCM was unsuccessful in contacting Mr E beforehand, but it had acted in Mr Es best 
interests, and in line with the agreed terms and conditions, when it sold the shares. Mr E 
would be in a worse position now if the shares hadnt been sold.
Whilst M shares were initially showing a profit, trading was taking place over the counter 
and volumes for on-market trades were too low for CCM to place a profitable sale order. 
Mr E didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
CCM gave investment advice to Mr E. In doing so, it had a regulatory obligation to 
ensure that the advice was suitable for Mr E and, in particular, in line with his risk 
tolerance and ability to bear losses. 
CCM advised Mr E to invest £40,000 in two AIM placings. The recommendations 
included use of a £20,000 credit facility (£10,000 for each placing) and the trades 
were for extended settlement, with the intention of selling the shares at a quick profit 
before the settlement date. 
In its risk warnings, CCM considers small cap and AIM shares high risk. It says: 
There is an extra risk of losing money when shares are bought in unquoted or 
smaller less liquid quoted companies. 
Some Small Cap or AIM listed companies can be highly illiquid and have a large 
bid/offer spread making them difficult to sell at the quoted price, and in some cases, it 
may be difficult to sell them at any price. 
Companies listed on the AIM market can be highly volatile and are considered high 
risk speculative investments. 
I agree that investment in AIM shares is usually considered high risk. 
Mr M had been assessed as having a medium attitude to risk. It doesnt automatically 
follow that some trading in high-risk shares would be unsuitable for him as a medium 
risk investor. It can be appropriate to include some low and high-risk investments in a 
portfolio to give it an overall medium risk. And some medium risk investors may 
decide to take a punt with a small percentage of their available capital. But I think 
CCM advised Mr E to take more risk than was suitable for him. I say this because:
Rather than just buying quoted AIM shares, CCMs recommended strategy added to 
the risk. The shares were purchased for extended settlement with a view to selling 
them quickly at a profit before they had to be paid for, and the trades were leveraged 
 CCM provided Mr E with credit which he would need to repay on demand if the 
shares werent successfully sold. And, for M shares, this was an initial placing so 
there was no track record of the share price. There was an option to choose speculation as an objective, but Mr E chose capital 
growth. This suggests to me that he didnt want to take big risks with his investment. 
CCMs definition of speculation is seeking a high-risk return on capital and I think 
this accurately describes the nature of the trading it recommended to Mr E.
In order to assess Mr Es attitude to risk, the advisor read out descriptions of a low, 
medium, and high-risk investor. The advisor suggested, based on the information 
hed obtained from Mr E, that he was probably a medium risk investor. Mr E agreed, 
but said he was interested in accelerated book builds and asked what risk they 
would be classed as. The advisor said they would be medium to high and Mr E 
confirmed that probably reflected his attitude to risk. As that wasnt an available 
category, the advisor asked if he was happy for him to tick high risk, but Mr E didnt 
agree and asked for medium risk to be recorded. This again suggests that, whilst 
Mr E had expressed an interest in high-risk trading, he either didnt fully understand 
the risks involved or it wasnt actually a risk he wanted to take.
CCM defines someone with a medium risk profile as:
Equally concerned about limiting my losses as I am about achieving returns. Up to 
50% of Total Investment Portfolio available for investment in high risk products.
But the advisor didnt include the second sentence in his description when he read 
the risk options out to Mr E. I think its more likely than not that, had this definition 
been brought to his attention, he wouldve questioned it and most likely wouldnt have 
agreed to half of his assets being invested in high-risk products.
The total investment portfolio was formed of all Mr Es investments, not just those in 
his CCM advisory account. I dont think this was appropriate in Mr Es individual 
circumstances. I say that because, whilst CCM said that Mr E had a total investment 
portfolio of £600,000, this included a rental property worth £500,000 which wasnt 
readily realisable. I think this should have been excluded for the purposes of deciding 
whether his assets were suitably invested. In reality, he had £100,000 liquid assets, 
£15,000 of which was already invested in high-risk shares. Following his investment 
with CCM, including the use of the credit facility, the total investment in high-risk 
stocks was more than the 50% referred to in its medium-risk description. That seems 
to me to be an unsuitably high proportion exposed to a high-risk trading strategy for 
an individual who was equally concerned about limiting my losses as I am about 
achieving returns.
Mr E told CCM he had lost money in the past when he invested in placings. And he 
was clearly not happy about that. CCM had phoned Mr E on three occasions in 2019 
asking him if he was interested in opening an account. Each time Mr E explained he 
might be interested in the future but that he would want an execution only service 
because hed lost money in the past using an advisory broker. In what appears to be 
a separate incident, he also said hed lost a lot after being scammed by a cold 
caller. This suggests he would want to be more cautious in the future. 
I accept it was Mr E who was driving the investment strategy here. He was the one 
who asked about extended settlement and use of credit, and he had traded in this 
way in the past. CCM read out the risk warnings for trading in AIM shares and for 
extended settlement and Mr E agreed that he understood the risks involved. I think 
he was possibly focussing too much on the profits he could potentially make, without 
concerning himself with the losses that might also be involved. But CCM was the 
professional in the relationship. And I think there was some key information which 
should have reasonably led CCM to clearly explain to Mr E that the type of trading he was interested in did not fit the profile hed chosen and wasnt suitable for Mr E 
based on his circumstances, risk appetite and capacity for loss. CCM should have 
made sure Mr E fully understood that, by using credit to purchase the shares, he was 
potentially going to lose more money than hed invested. And I think this should have 
been specifically and clearly explained to him, rather than relying on the standard risk 
warnings wording. 
For these reasons, I think CCM gave Mr E unsuitable investment advice. It should 
put Mr E back in the position hed be in now if he hadnt opened the advisory 
account. 
And I set out what CCM needed to do to put things right. I said it should compare the 
performance of Mr Es investment with that of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index and pay the difference. And that it should pay Mr E £150 compensation for the 
distress caused because of the unsuitable advice which led to him losing money. 
I noted that Mr Es complaint was also about the sale of the AIM shares, and that Mr E had 
raised concerns about whether CCM had a conflict of interest here which disadvantaged 
him. But I said I didnt need to consider those aspects of his complaint because I was 
minded to uphold it, having concluded the advice to buy the shares was unsuitable.
CCMs response to my provisional decision
CCM didnt agree and responded in detail saying, in summary, that:
Its advice was suitable and in line with Mr Es risk tolerance and ability to bear losses.
If Mr Es rental property is not included, 42.3% of Mr Es total liquid investment portfolio 
was invested in high-risk small cap and AIM shares. This is in line with his medium 
attitude to risk. CCM didnt advise Mr E to take more risk than was suitable for him.
CCM didnt recommend providing Mr E with credit, he drove this strategy and understood 
his responsibilities.
Mr E chose capital growth and not speculation, but this was for his overall investment 
objective and not his CCM account in isolation.
Mr E had experience in high-risk trading and confirmed he understood all the risk 
warnings.
Mr E confirmed his overall attitude to risk was medium with up to 50% of his total 
portfolio available for investment in high-risk products. Its common sense that he would 
be tolerant of risking £10,000 capital in high-risk small cap and AIM shares. And he 
concerned himself with the potential risk of loss, given he agreed he understood the risks 
involved.
Whilst CCMs position is that its advice was suitable in its entirety, if the ombudsman was 
to uphold the complaint, it must be the position that one of the two investments was 
suitable, so the ombudsman should only uphold in part, not in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far 
less detail than the parties and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of 
information here but Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I accept what CCM says about the percentage of Mr Es total investments invested in 
high-risk stocks. Following the investment in V and M shares, Mr E held 42.3% of his total 
investments, excluding property, in high-risk shares. Which I agree is less than the 50% 
referred to in its description of a medium risk investor.
And CCM says Mr E invested £40,000 in V and M shares, including use of a £30,000 credit 
facility. I had previously understood the credit extended to him was £20,000.
The rest of the information CCM has provided is largely a repeat of what it had already told 
us during our investigation.
Having carefully considered everything CCM said in response to my provisional decision, 
I dont find any reason to change my conclusion, for the reasons Ive already explained. In 
summary:
Whilst the shares themselves may have been high risk, I find the investment strategy was 
speculative. Whilst the total investment may have represented less than 50% of Mr Es total 
investment portfolio, taking into account the use of extended settlement, the expectation of a 
quick sale, and the use of credit, hed committed 42.3% of his available investment to 
speculative dealing. I think this exposed Mr E to more risk that he was willing to take.
Mr E had dealt this way in the past, and he may have been the party to first ask about 
extended settlement and credit. But it was CCM who was responsible for ensuring this was 
suitable for Mr E. As I set out in my provisional decision, CCM should have taken the time to 
ensure Mr E did understand the likelihood of him losing money on his investment was quite 
high. It didnt do this. Rather it relied on a tick box exercise of reading its generic warnings 
out to Mr E.
I wouldnt expect a medium risk investor to be advised to invest 100% in medium risk 
investments. Its probably suitable to include a mixture of low, medium and high-risk 
investments in a portfolio to provide an overall medium risk. And a medium investor may 
want to use a small proportion of his investment to take a punt. But, as noted above, the 
investment with CCM was not an insignificant proportion of his total portfolio. 
CCM suggests that, if I uphold the complaint, I should only uphold in part  because one of 
the two investments would have been suitable for Mr E. Its not my role to try to recreate 
what a different version of CCMs advice might have looked like, and I cant conclude exactly 
what Mr E might have done. But if CCM had acted fairly, I find it wouldnt have 
recommended the investments, and strategy, that it did. And it would have taken the time to 
explain the risks of those investments and strategy more clearly. If CCM had done that, Im 
satisfied Mr E wouldnt have gone ahead as he did. I say this because, once the investments 
took place, and he came to understand more fully the risks involved, he became quite upset 
and distressed about the position hed been put in.Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
E as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
It is not possible to say precisely what Mr E would have done. Its possible he may not 
have invested at all, or he may have decided to go ahead on an execution only basis. But 
I think its more likely that, if CCM had taken the time to make sure he understood the 
risks involved and explained why it wasnt suitable for him, Mr E would have wanted to 
invest in investments which more suitably reflected his capital appreciation objective and 
medium attitude to risk. For that reason, I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr E's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must CCM do?
To compensate Mr E fairly, CCM must:
1.Compare the performance of Mr E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
2.CCM should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
3.Pay to Mr E £150 for the distress and inconvenience of being advised to take more 
risk than was suitable for him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Advisory 
agreementStill exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance) *
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.When calculating the fair value the starting investment should reflect the actual cash 
invested by Mr E, not including the credit he was provided with.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the CCM should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if CCM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires CCM to take off tax from this interest. CCM must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr E wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr E's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Clear Capital Markets Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Clear Capital Markets Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr E in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023. 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman