DRN-3325684
The complaint
E and E complain about Cynergy Bank Limiteds actions when closing its account and not 
giving it a specific reason for the closure.
What happened
E and E held business accounts with Cynergy for a number of years. In late 2019, Cynergy 
renewed E and Es overdraft facility for its continued use. As part of the renewal, E and E 
was charged a fee.
In March 2020, Cynergy made the decision to close E and Es accounts. They gave E and E 
15 days notice but placed a block on the accounts which meant E and E couldnt use it 
within that time. E and E had two business loans and one overdraft which was outstanding 
and needed to be repaid to Cynergy.
E and E wanted to make part repayments to the debt to reduce the overall interest costs but 
said Cynergy wouldnt let it do that. Cynergy asked for a full repayment schedule but 
E and E couldnt provide that due to the uncertainties of its income because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. After continuous efforts from E and E, Cynergy agreed to extend the closure, and 
therefore, repayment date. E and E said it took until December 2020 to be in a position to 
repay the debts in full and move its accounts to another provider. It said the new providers 
wanted to know why its accounts had been closed but it couldnt tell them.
Overall, E and E are unhappy that Cynergy made the decision to close the accounts. It 
believes this decision was made unfairly and wants Cynergy to give it a specific reason for 
the closures. E and E are also unhappy about the time it took for Cynergy to respond to its 
complaint.
Our investigator reviewed things and upheld the complaint in part. In summary, she said;
We couldnt look at the closure of the business loans because they werent regulated 
credit agreements and therefore didnt fall part of our jurisdiction.
Cynergy were entitled to block the account while reviewing it and didnt cause any 
unnecessary delays.
Cynergy closing the account immediately (because of the block) was fair in the 
circumstances.
It was reasonable for Cynergy to ask for a repayment schedule for the overdraft and 
they didnt charge E and E any interest after 21 April 2020 or default the debt. So, 
there was no impact to E and E.
E and E were charged around £1,685 in December 2019 for its annual overdraft 
arrangement fee. E and E utilised the overdraft up to June 2020  when it repaid it in 
full. Our investigator thought Cynergy should refund E and E the cost of the fee from 
30 June 2020 to 31 December 2020  and add 8% simple interest as E and E 
couldnt use it once the account was closed.
There were some aspects of poor customer service provided by Cynergy to E and E 
so recommend £100 compensation to recognise this. 
Cynergy responded to our investigators view and agreed with the recommendations. 
E and E didnt agree.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business loans
We operate under a set of rules laid down by Parliament under the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000, published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and known as 
DISP. These set out the scope of our powers, including the types of complaints we can 
consider.
Im satisfied that the business loans dont fall within the scope of a regulated activity. Thats 
because they were for commercial purposes - and those types of loans are unregulated. 
Consequently, I have no legal power to consider this part of E and Es complaint.
Business account with overdraft  block and closure
Cynergy has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. The obligations are ongoing and do not only apply to when an 
account is opened, or when facilities are renewed. So while I recognise E and Es 
disappointment that Cynergy allowed its account and overdraft to be renewed, and then 
decided to review things a few months later, I cant fairly uphold its complaint on this point.
Cynergy are entitled to review accounts at any time and they dont need to inform customers 
when they are due to carry out a review. That being said, it is expected that reviews are 
completed efficiently and without any undue delays. Im aware Cynergy initially blocked 
E and Es account on 10 March 2020 to carry out the review  and it was completed by 
19 March 2020. Having reviewed the full circumstances, I dont consider a period of 9 
calendar days to be unreasonable.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if E and E decided to end the agreement with Cynergy and use another bank  it wouldnt 
have to explain why. 
Im also satisfied Cynergy complied with the terms and conditions of the account. This 
service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. While Im aware 
Cynergy hasnt shared the reasons for their decision with E and E, Ive reviewed their 
reasons and Ive seen nothing to suggest Cynergy has made an unfair decision. 
Im aware E and E wanted Cynergy to provide a different closure letter  so it could explain 
to new providers the reasons for the closure. Ive explained that Cynergy arent obliged to 
share their reasons for closure, so I cant reasonably agree that E and Es request was 
reasonable. And I cant fairly uphold the complaint for Cynergy not agreeing to E and Es 
request.
The overdraft facility and the repayment
E and E also held an overdraft on the account and Cynergy renewed this facility in 
December 2019. As with most banks, overdrafts are repayable on demand so I agree it was appropriate for Cynergy to ask for the overdraft debt to be repaid as they exercised their 
right to close the account. However, Ive thought carefully about the difficulties this would 
have caused E and E  especially in the middle of a pandemic. 
E and E asked to pay part of its overdraft debt in May 2020  Cynergy asked for a full 
payment schedule from E and E before considering its request. While Ive seen evidence of 
correspondence between Cynergy and E and E, I havent seen that a payment schedule was 
ever supplied to Cynergy. I appreciate E and E feel strongly about this  in particular, it feels 
that by Cynergy not accepting part payment, it would have paid more interest charges as the 
overall debt balance would have been higher. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Cynergy to want to understand how and when the full overdraft would be paid  so I think 
their request for a payment schedule was appropriate. Ive also seen that E and E paid the 
overdraft debt in full in June 2020.
Ive considered the interest charges carefully, and no interest was charged on the overdraft 
after 21 April 2020. As Cynergys first request to repay was in May 2020  and eventually 
paid in full in June 2020, I cant agree that any additional interest has been added. Im also 
aware no default was recorded on E and Es credit file. Therefore, while I appreciate 
E and Es disappointment, I dont consider the request for a payment schedule and refusal of 
part payment had any financial impact on it directly.
In December 2019, when E and Es overdraft facility was renewed, Cynery charged a 
renewal fee of £1,685. Due to the account closure, and completion of the overdraft in 
June 2020, E and E received only six months use of the overdraft facility. I therefore 
consider it fair that E and E receive a proportionate refund of the renewal fee  to recognise 
the time it could not make use of the overdraft. I also consider 8% simple interest should be 
added to this, to recognise the loss of use of the money and therefore should be paid from 
the date the refund is due.
Customer service
There were times where Cynergy failed to provide full responses to E and E. Im aware 
Cynergy has explained the impact the pandemic had on their staffing levels, however I do 
think E and E could have received better service at times. Therefore, I consider an amount 
of compensation should be paid.
Putting things right
Overall, I consider Cynergys actions when reviewing, blocking, and closing E and Es 
account was fair - they complied with their terms and conditions and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest they made an unfair decision. I also consider the repayment of the overdraft was 
reasonable and appreciate the care Cynergy put in place  like freezing the interest and 
delaying the closure date, to suit E and Es circumstances.
However, I do consider E and E should receive a refund of the overdraft renewal fee  
specifically from 30 June 2020 to 31 December 2020. I also consider 8% simple interest 
should be paid on this amount to recognise E and Es loss of use of the funds. And I think 
Cynergy should pay £100 compensation to recognise the lack of customer service E and E 
received at times.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
To put things right, Cynergy Bank Limited should:Refund E and E the overdraft renewal fee from 30 June 2020 to 31 December 2020;
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount they refund E and E from 30 June 2020 up to 
the date of settlement.
Pay E and E £100 for the poor customer service provided. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E and E to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman