DRN-3119328
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have undervalued his car when he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W bought a new car. A few months later it was damaged in an accident, so he claimed on 
his policy. UKI reviewed the claim and accepted it, it said that Mr Ws car was deemed a 
total loss. UKI tried to value Mr Ws car using trade guides, but they werent able to produce 
a value due to the age and type of Mr Ws car. Because of this UKI looked at adverts it could 
find for similar cars.
Mr W said UKI was looking at short wheel base versions of his car and his was a long wheel 
base version which was worth more money. Because of this he didnt think the adverts UKI 
were using were a fair way to value his car. UKI said because Mr W had only bought the car 
three months earlier, it would pay him what he paid for it minus his excess. Mr W didnt think 
this was fair and complained, he said his car was a rare model and that it had increased in 
value since he bought it.
UKI reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had found similar cars to Mr Ws 
and thought that its valuation was fair. Mr W disagreed, he said hed found a rare model and 
the person who had sold it to him hadnt realised how much it was worth. He also said UKI 
kept using short wheel base versions to value his car which arent worth as much. As Mr W 
didnt think the value UKI had reached was fair he referred his complaint here.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found the average of the adverts UKI had used to value the car were less than the amount it 
had ultimately valued his car at. Because of this she thought UKI had acted fairly in valuing 
Mr Ws car as the amount hed paid for it. Mr W disagreed, he said UKI were using short 
wheel base versions and the one long wheel base version UKI had found hadnt sold 
because it was in a poor condition. 
As Mr W disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy say that if UKI deem his car a total loss, it will pay
him the market value. It defines market value as the cost of replacing your vehicle with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to 
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide 
research of sales prices. However, in Mr Ws case the guides are unable to value his car due 
to its age. 
Mr W and UKI have therefore looked at adverts to determine the fair market value of Mr Ws 
car. Ive looked at the adverts Mr W has provided and also those UKI have provided and 
taken into account their comments about them. Particularly Mr Ws comments about the 
difference between a short wheel base version and a long wheel base version. Having done 
so Im not persuaded UKI has done anything wrong.
I say this because there are limited adverts for an exact like for like to Mr Ws car, due to it 
being a long wheel base version and the specification it has. So, while I can see there are 
some adverts similar to his, the amount theyre advertised for varies a lot. Therefore, the 
adverts arent enough to persuade me that it would be fair and reasonable to require UKI to 
increase its valuation. Because of this Im satisfied that UKI offering Mr W what he paid for it 
three months before is fair. I say this because while values can increase over time, hed only 
recently bought it. And in the absence of more persuasive evidence, Im satisfied that its 
likely a fair value for his car. 
Ive considered Mr Ws point about the person he bought his car from not knowing what it 
was and selling it for less than its worth. However, from the adverts provided Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ws car is worth more than he paid, so Im not going to tell UKI to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman