DRN-2302067
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) didnt call him back after he called 
to make a currency transfer. He says the rate has since changed significantly, and he has 
lost out as a result.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C called Clydesdale in the morning and was informed that he could speak to any 
adviser in the team to check the rate he would receive and make the transfer, but 
Mr C chose to wait for the initial agent he spoke to rather than ask the second agent 
to check the rate.
While Clydesdale didnt call Mr C back as it should have done, this appears to have 
been because the agent was on another call until the end of the working day. Had 
Mr C been concerned about the rate he would receive then I would have expected 
him to mitigate his loss by calling back the following day to enquire about this, but it 
seems he didnt call back for at least a week and didnt arrange to transfer the funds 
at any point.
Mr C says he would have accepted a rate of around 1.16 but there is no guarantee 
he would have been offered this rate at the time as the exchange rates fluctuate 
frequently and the information Ive seen suggests the rate fluctuated significantly 
following Clydesdale failing to return Mr Cs call.
Mr C still hasnt transferred the funds and until hes done this, no loss has 
materialised as the funds are still held in US dollars and he hasnt lost any money  
Mr C would only have lost out if he had later transferred funds at a less favourable 
rate.
Mr C has commented that the rate he was given was the most favourable rate for 
some years. However, he chose not to take the rate that was offered to him and 
knew that there was the possibility this could change. In addition to this, there was in 
fact a better rate available the following day.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Cs frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman