DRN-3835210
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the advice that Bury Financial Advisers Limited (BFAL)  an 
appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd - gave him to transfer his defined benefits from 
his occupational pension scheme (OPS), the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a 
Personal Pension Policy (PPP). 
Mr K has expressed concern that BFAL hadnt met the regulatory requirements regarding 
such transfers and that hes incurred a financial loss as a result.
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ks employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
Mr K was 51 when he met with BFAL on 12 October 2017 to complete a Financial Review 
fact find. Mr K, like many of his colleagues at the time, was recorded as being concerned 
about the financial position of the BSPS and the possibility of his future pension benefits 
being provided by the PPF or BSPS 2.
The fact find records that Mr K was in good health, married, and had two non-dependent 
children.
Mr K was employed, earning around £40,000 per annum and didnt anticipate changing his 
employment. His wife was also employed, earning approximately £20,000 per annum. Their 
combined net monthly income was in the region of £3,500 which was almost entirely used to 
cover their monthly expenditures. They held cash savings of £2,000, but no other 
investments.
They owned their home which was valued at £120,000, and had an outstanding mortgage of 
£4,500 due to be repaid over the following year.
With regard to his retirement planning, it was recorded that Mr K wanted to retire at age
58, without financial penalty. He was concerned that when he passed this age he may not be
able to continue working in his very physical role. Apart from his BSPS pension benefits, he 
and his employer were paying 6% and 10% respectively of his monthly earnings to the Tata 
Steel Group Personal Pension plan.
As part of the financial review, an attitude towards investment risk questionnaire was 
completed and Mr K was assessed to have a risk profile of 5 out of 10 on a scale where 1 
was lowest risk and 10 was highest risk.
Attached to the fact find was a file note dated 13 October 2017. This said that Mr K wished 
to access his pension from age 55 to take tax free cash to pay for his daughters weddings, 
up to £20,000 in total. He would then defer taking further withdrawals until he retired.
To fulfil Mr Ks objectives, BFAL recommended that Mr K transfer his BSPS CETV of 
£553,150 to an Aviva PPP.
Mr K accepted the recommendation and the transfer completed.
Mr K then complained to BFAL in February 2022, but BFAL (Pi Financial Ltd) declined to 
uphold his complaint. Dissatisfied with the response, Mr K referred the matter to this service.
Having considered the complaint, the investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
He was satisfied that BFAL had carried out the correct procedures in advising Mr K, 
but he didnt think the ultimate recommendation to transfer had been suitable.
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
Mr K had been a member of the BSPS for just under 31 years. His estimated full 
pension at age 65 was quoted as being £30,535 pa and at age 58, this was 
estimated to be £19,550 pa.
The critical yields to match the scheme benefits were 7.6% pa to age 65 and 12.01% 
pa to age 58.
The advice had been given during the period in which this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for 
complaints about transfers which were being upheld.Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rates for the number of years left to age 65 and 58 were 4.1% and 3.3% 
respectively. Given the critical yields, the possibility of improving on Mr Ks benefits 
from the BSPS was doubtful.
BFAL said that, if Mr K took a pension commencement lump sum of £134,913 with a 
reduced pension of £20,237 pa, this would have a critical yield of 5.51% pa, and this 
was achievable. But it concluded that the critical yield to match the scheme benefits 
at age 58 wasnt achievable.
Mr K was still seven years away from his preferred retirement age of 58, and was 
recorded as wanting to transfer to a PPP for the flexibility of access and due to 
concerns about his pension benefits being transferred to either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, and the reduced revaluation rates which might apply compared to the BSPS.
Mr K had a retirement income figure of £34,800 pa in mind, and BFAL should have 
explained that this was unrealistic. His BSPS benefits couldnt be improved upon by 
transferring due to the high critical yields, and if a higher income than that quoted by 
BFAL was drawn down, this would have depleted the pension fund which needed to 
last his lifetime.
Although Mr K may have wished to access his tax free cash at age 55 to pay for his 
daughters weddings, the advice should have been given with Mr Ks best interests in 
retirement primarily in mind.
Mr K didnt have a clear retirement plan which could be sufficiently detailed to 
demonstrate that a transfer to a PPP was in his best interests. He may have liked the 
idea of accessing tax free cash at 55, but he was eight years away from possible 
retirement at age 58. There was therefore no urgent need to transfer at that point.
In terms of Mr Ks capacity for financial loss, he had 30 years BSPS benefits, but his 
only other asset, other than his home, was £2,000 in savings. So he didnt have any 
ability to make up losses due to the transfer.
Mr K may have been concerned about the prospects of the BSPS, and may have 
been inclined towards transferring, but it was up to BFAL to make a suitable 
recommendation  and it didnt so.
If properly discussed, Mr Ks concerns around the BSPS and the PPF could have 
been managed, along with reassurances around the guaranteed benefits and the 
provision for Mrs K in the event of his death.
Mr K was relinquishing the guarantees for the sake of control and flexibility which he 
didnt anticipate needing for a further seven years. There were also no exceptional 
circumstances which warranted a transfer. Mr K was a balanced investor, with little 
experience of investments. By transferring, the entirety of his pension would be 
based upon investment returns and future annuity rates.If Mr K had been advised not to transfer, the investigator was confident that he would 
have followed that advice.
The investigator recommended that Pi Financial Ltd undertake a loss calculation in 
accordance with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis 
that he would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ks pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr K, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He further recommended that Pi Financial Ltd pay Mr K £300 in respect of the trouble and 
upset that the matter had caused him. He said that Mr K had trusted the advice hed been 
given and would have been caused concern when realising that the transfer may not have 
been in his best interests.
Mr K made no further comment upon investigators findings. Pi Financial Ltd disagreed, 
however, saying the following in summary:
Mr K had a separate workplace pension, and so did have other investments beyond 
his savings.
The complaint from Mr K had been as to whether BFAL had followed the correct 
procedures. And on the basis that the investigator had concluded that it had 
undertaken the correct procedures, the complaint couldnt be upheld. The case was 
also reviewed by two pension transfer specialists, both of whom concluded that the 
recommendation was suitable and the proper processes had been followed.
It agreed that the starting point should be that the transfer would be unsuitable unless 
it could be demonstrated otherwise. This was the starting point for its analysis.
The critical yield could only be used to determine whether the transfer was financially 
viable if Mr K was planning to buy an annuity. Mr K didnt want to match the benefits 
the BSPS was offering as he didnt want to incur the financial penalty for taking 
benefits early. The reduced relevance of a critical yield when an individual wasnt 
planning to buy guaranteed benefits had been recognised by the FCA, which had 
changed the requirement from a TVAS to a TVC and APTA.
Mr K had achieved all of his stated objectives, as follows:
1. Retire at age 58
2. Achieve expenditure of £34,800 net per year at the point of retirement
3. Death benefits to be greater for [Mrs K] as the spouse benefit of 50% (with other 
assets) would not (and still do not) support her in retirement.
4. Increased capital value of transfer had made it possible to retire at 55  capitalise 
value on offer
5. Concerns on changing basis of the scheme  wanted to transfer to avoid going 
into the PPF or transfer to a new scheme where the increases will not be as high.
Mr K had now fully retired on the income he desired and with the satisfaction that, 
should he die prematurely, Mrs K would enjoy the same benefits.It agreed that there would be no financial advantage from a guaranteed income 
perspective if Mr K was looking to buy an annuity. But he did gain a financial 
advantage by meeting his objectives of providing a bridging pension from age 58 to 
state pension age. The scheme benefits couldnt provide this.
It didnt understand the relevance of the discount rates quoted by the investigator, but 
notwithstanding this, the FCA has made it quite clear that the growth rates 
appropriate to a clients attitude to risk should be used when assessing a transfer  
which the investigator had himself acknowledged.
It didnt understand the point being made when the investigator said that the critical 
yield to age 58 was unachievable, but then said that BFAL in any case deemed the 
transfer to be suitable.
Mr Ks objective had been to capitalise his deferred BSPS benefits. Had Mr K taken 
his CETV now, it would have been reduced by around 30-40%.
The pension income from the transfer had enabled Mr K to bridge the gap between 
58 and state pension age, at which point he could reduce his withdrawals  and then 
further once Mrs Ks state pension began. The transfer wasnt designed to sustain a 
£34,000 pa withdrawal for life. Mr K could achieve his objectives whilst maintaining a 
guaranteed essential income.
Whilst the investigators opinion on Mr K wishing to pay for his daughters wedding 
was noted, this was subjective, and Mr K was entitled to his own objective. If that 
objective could be met and Mr K could still have met his income and death lump sum 
benefit objectives, then this would have been in his best interests.
It disagreed that Mr K didnt have a clear retirement plan  this was to retire at age 
58. The income which would be provided by the BSPS 2 at age 65 would have been 
around £20,000 pa (approximately £18,500 net), leaving a shortfall of around 
£15,500 pa. Mr K would have needed to work until age 67 to receive the desired 
income and this prospect was inflicting mental and physical stress.
If Mr K didnt transfer then and the BSPS benefits entered the PPF, he wouldnt have 
been able to transfer later. There was also no guarantee of the value of the BSPS 2 
CETV at age 55. The recommendation was based upon the available information at 
the time.
The decrease in interest rates had shown that that decision had been correct. If Mr K 
had deferred his decision to transfer, he would then have been in a detrimental 
position.
In determining Mr Ks capacity for loss, although he only had £2,000 in savings, his 
greatest asset was the approximately £500,000 pension fund. He only had £4,500 
outstanding on his mortgage and he and Mrs K could expect two guaranteed state 
pensions. His capacity for loss was high, and a loss of 50% in the first three years 
wouldnt have had a detrimental effect on Mr Ks plans.
It didnt understand the investigators conclusions relating to the unsuitability of the 
transfer or, as retirement wasnt imminent, that he should have been advised to 
transfer into the BSPS 2. It queried as to how a transfer to the BSPS 2 would have 
met Mr Ks needs.As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, the investigator said that it would be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator then informed Pi Financial Ltd that hed enquired of Mr K as to whether, if 
the complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on 
the existing basis, or to await the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress 
calculations.
Mr K confirmed that hed like any redress calculation to be conducted on the basis of the 
existing guidance.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Pi Financial Ltd to 
use the FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr K.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint, they should let him
know by 5 June 2023.
Neither party has submitted further comments in respect of this.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time BFAL advised Mr K were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like BFAL, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, BFAL 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ks 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.Ive therefore considered the suitability of BFALs advice to Mr K in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
BFALs rationale for transferring
Mr K wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and BFAL was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, BFAL could be confident that he would be acting 
upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr K and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as noted above. But although Ive noted 
BFALs comment that, as it followed the required procedures, the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, Id make the observation that it would of course be possible to gather the required 
information, assess suitability, and still provide an unsuitable recommendation.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance was that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr Ks options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr K would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
BFAL obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ks objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were 
deemed achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, 
similar rates were published by this service. Ive noted what Pi Financial Ltd has said about 
the discount rates. And as noted by the investigator, businesses werent required to 
reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless have been 
a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.1% pa. And that to age 58 was 3.3%.
The critical yields to age 65, at 7.6%, and then 12.01% at age 58 therefore comfortably 
exceeded the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, but also, 
bearing mind Pi Financial Ltds comment that the regulators growth rates were the more 
relevant comparator, the mid band growth rate of 5%  which I think would be a reasonable 
assumption for a medium risk investor. 
BFAL itself said it considered the critical yields to likely be unachievable, and I agree - I think 
its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year on year, for the 
number of years that Mr K had until he reached either early or normal retirement age. 
And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the 
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance 
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ks best interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial 
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr K would be relinquishing.
But Id also note that the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case 
indicate suitability of a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Its Pi Financial Ltds position that replacing one source of guaranteed income with another 
wasnt the objective here  rather, it was the facility for Mr K to withdraw income flexibly. And 
so it has argued that the recommendation shouldnt be judged on the basis of the critical 
yields required to match the scheme benefits. Ill therefore address these objectives further 
below.
Before I do so, I think its firstly fair to say that BFAL did provide warnings on the guarantees 
which would be relinquished, but as Pi Financial Ltd will be aware, risk warnings alone 
wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a 
recommendation report, this also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. BFAL 
needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the 
guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr K.
As Ive said above, BFALs reasoning for the recommended transfer, despite the likely 
inability of the transferred benefits to match those which would have been produced by the 
scheme, was that Mr K required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances, 
objectives, and concerns about his employer and the pension scheme. And so Ive given this 
argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr K may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
But I also dont think Mr K in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of 
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr K would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. 
However, my view is that there was another way of achieving his and his wifes income 
objective without needing to relinquish his scheme benefits. And I dont think it would have 
involved particularly complicated financial planning.
The plan was to seemingly take more income until Mr Ks state pension began at age 67, 
and then take a lower income. But Mr K would still have been receiving an overall lower level 
of pension benefits through his retirement. If hed retained the scheme benefits, these would 
have continued to escalate beyond the state pension age, rather than reducing.
Mr and Mrs K were recorded as wanting a joint income of £34,800 pa at age 58, although I 
cant see any particularly detailed analysis as to how this figure had been reached. Mrs K 
was expecting a pension of £5,950 pa at age 65, and if this was taken at age 57, this would 
be £3,576 pa.
Mr K would apparently need to access his tax free lump sum at age 55 to pay for his 
daughters weddings, estimated at around £10,000 each. But my understanding is that 
neither had plans to marry at that point, and so the objective to access the tax free cash at 
that age was quite hypothetical rather than a fixed objective. As it turned out, Mr K hasnt yet needed to withdraw funds for that objective, although he has 
made other withdrawals to fund a holiday, car loan clearance and buying another car.
So on the basis that Mr K may not in fact have needed to access the tax free cash until his 
daughters were actually planning to marry, rather than an arbitrary age of taking tax free 
cash, Mr K could have delayed taking any pension benefits until age 58. 
By that point, even at a modest 2% pa rate of growth over seven years, he would have 
accumulated a fund value by age 58 of around £49,000 in his defined contributions scheme. 
BFAL also projected that, once the mortgage was repaid, Mr and Mrs K could have 
accumulated a further £21,000 in savings.
If Mr K withdrew his tax free cash entitlement from the scheme at age 58, this would have 
provided £90,232. There would have been a reduced pension payable, due to early 
retirement factors and the tax free cash, of £13,534 pa. Adding Mrs Ks pension to this, 
£3,576, this would have provided around £17,000 pa. There was therefore a prospective 
shortfall of £17,800 pa. 
But the total cash which Mr and Mrs K would have had by then, even stripping out £20,000 
for their daughters weddings if indeed this was required by then, would have made up that 
shortfall for around eight years  so to around age 65. And with any fund growth on the cash 
amounts, and escalation in Mr and Mrs Ks scheme pensions, I think it was possible that it 
would have lasted for longer. 
I cant see that tax free cash was earmarked for any purpose other than paying for their 
daughters weddings. And theyd have repaid their mortgage by then.
Mr and Mrs K would then have begun receiving their state pensions, in addition to the 
guaranteed escalating benefits they were continuing to receive from their respective 
schemes. They wouldnt have needed to reduce the income Mr K was drawing from his 
transferred pension fund to ensure that he didnt run out of funds.
And even if Mr K then found himself in the fortunate position of receiving more income than 
he required, which might otherwise add to an IHT bill upon his death, then he could have 
gifted this immediately to avoid it being subject to IHT. 
I think, had Mr K been presented with this option to meet his income requirement (or likely 
thereabouts), the prospect of drawing down his defined contributions fund and using tax free 
cash, whilst maintaining the valuable guaranteed scheme benefits, would have been 
appealing. If presented with this further option, I cant see why Mr K would reasonably have 
wanted or needed flexibility at the cost of such valuable guaranteed benefits, given the 
investment risk associated with the transfer, and bearing in mind his likely attitude to risk and 
apparent lack of any similar historical investment which might otherwise indicate a 
preparedness to take risks with his pension income.
The very likely incapacity of the transferred fund to match the scheme benefits is 
representative of the overall financial loss. And that would read across into the performance 
required of a flexi-drawdown fund to do the same. The only way of Mr K maintaining his 
pension funds to a reasonable age would be to withdraw less than he could have received 
as guaranteed income from the scheme. And if he simply didnt need to transfer, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think he would readily have accepted this prospect.
And even if the income produced by the alternative above fell slightly short, on the basis of 
the prospect of a significant cash equivalent loss as a result of the transfer, as demonstrated 
by the transfer report, I think Mr K would more likely than not have cut his cloth accordingly for the sake of retaining those important guarantees. As Pi Financial Ltd will be aware, 
financial advice isnt simply a matter of wish fulfilment. Its about bringing to life realities and 
alternatives which might, in the medium to long term, prove more advantageous to a client  
or in other words, and as required by the regulator, acting in their best interests.
And so, without even needing to further consider whether Mr K was in a position, from a 
capacity for loss perspective, to take the investment risks associated with the transfer and 
subsequent reinvestment, I just cant see sufficient justification for him needing to do so in 
the first place, given the available alternative. Even a high level of investment risk, for 
example primarily in equities, would be unlikely to produce the returns required, year on 
year, to match the overall benefit which hed receive from the scheme. Quite apart from 
which, combining a guaranteed source of income with a measure of risk/reward investment 
through his defined contribution pension funds would seem to me to represent just the type 
of well diversified means of retirement provision which would be suitable for a medium risk 
investor like Mr K.
As with others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr K would have been concerned 
about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Ks concerns around this 
should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a 
client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health 
of an employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options.
Im not persuaded that this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being 
lost to the employer, even if Mr K distrusted it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS 
consultation, which had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had 
been to avoid the necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of 
the advice (and in fact by the time of the time to choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed 
more likely than not to be a viable alternative. Conditions still needed to be met for the BSPS 
2 to be established, but when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the 
BSPS entering the PPF without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I 
think its reasonable to say that all indications were to the contrary.
The prospect of Mr Ks accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had receded. But even if 
this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with valuable 
benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did in fact take 
scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
And so I think that, had Mr Ks concerns been better managed, a further seeming key driver 
for having control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
Ive further noted Pi Financial Ltds comments relating to the CETV which would have been 
lower had Mr K transferred at a later date. But I think this is a moot point  on the basis of 
the facts as they were known at the time of the advice, and suitably advised, I dont think Mr 
K would have needed to transfer his pension benefits  and shouldnt in my view have been 
advised to do so.
Death benefits
It was recorded in the suitability report that Mr K had very little life assurance and that his 
dependants would certainly benefit from extra sums if they could be made available. And 
following the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his beneficiaries, rather than in the 
form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme. But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ks benefits. Firstly, as 
far as Im aware he had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or 
any likelihood to not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable 
amount of time, were of concern at that point, especially if he was to retire at age 58. 
The second is that accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals 
retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy for extended family members. The 
recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Ks best interests, rather than those 
of his surviving family  he (along with Mrs K) was the one who would require the income in 
retirement. 
And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the 
surviving family, I dont think this can be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. 
This desire to leave a larger lump sum legacy to his family cannot reasonably have 
subjugated Mr Ks own personal requirement to benefit from his accrued pension benefits. 
The wish to leave a legacy should have been properly weighed against the guaranteed 
benefits Mr K was relinquishing, and BFAL should have advised him that his own financial 
benefit took priority here.
There also didnt seem to be any particular need for Mr K to leave a lump sum to his family. 
The mortgage had been repaid and his daughters were financially independent. Further, Mrs 
K would have her own pension provision, both from her OPS and the state, and would also 
have benefitted from the 50% spouses pension which would have been payable from the 
scheme. BFAL had itself compared the capitalised death benefits between the scheme and 
a recipient PPP, and the scheme produced just under a £200,000 overall greater benefit.
It's difficult therefore to understand how the transfer would have achieved greater security for 
Mrs K. I think the headline transfer sum was viewed as being that which Mrs K might 
receive in the event of Mr Ks death, which might have seemed beneficial immediately after 
the transfer. But the reality was somewhat different  Mr K would be drawing down from that 
sum of money every year, thereby (notwithstanding fund performance) decreasing its value 
by £34,800 pa for the first nine years. And in the event of Mr Ks death after this, Mrs K 
would need to have managed on the remainder.
By contrast, Mrs K could expect around £7,000 pa from Mr Ks 58th birthday onwards, 
escalating each year. And she would also have received whatever was left of the tax free 
cash and Mr Ks defined contribution plan as a lump sum.
I therefore think that the lump sum death benefit was more likely than not an entirely 
understandable desire to leave some kind of financial legacy, but not essential, and certainly 
not of sufficient importance to justify Mr K compromising the security of his own financial 
future.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ks family by 
way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose 
otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr K personally. 
What should BFAL have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ks decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr K. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.There was no imminent prospect of Mr Ks scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF. On 
the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point guaranteed, I think the indications 
were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr K was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr K, amongst many others in a similar position, 
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, 
which clearly fed into his views on having control over his own pension funds, but he was 
nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement was in 
any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the scenario of 
entry into the PPF.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr K to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees if an alternative 
method of broadly achieving his objectives was available. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ks concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need, given the other options available, and a future pension 
which would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon 
investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise 
have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash would have been available both from his accrued defined contribution and 
defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit 
scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the PPP. And if a lump sum 
shortfall was still envisaged for Mrs K, relatively inexpensive life assurance could be put in 
place.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and both the mid 
and higher band growth rates set out by the pension provider. And as also noted by BFAL, 
Id reiterate that I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match 
the scheme benefits, given Mr Ks risk attitude.
Taking account of Mr Ks circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his objectives 
and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF, my view is that BFAL should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr K would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr K, nor was it in 
his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ks medium attitude to risk and 
its incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have been required to match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive and 
balanced portrayal of Mr Ks options  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least one of the key benefits sought by Mr K was available without needing
to transfer  early retirement.
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Ks medium attitude to risk with 
regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment 
returns, it was unlikely (as also indicated by BFAL), albeit I acknowledge, not impossible, 
that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor scheme, could be bettered through 
the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out in COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, BFAL 
would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt 
in Mr Ks best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr K, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In terms of the option Mr K would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted that 
there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ks pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. 
But the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors 
for the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
One of Mr Ks recorded objectives was the ability to retire early. And so this would have 
been a point which required careful consideration when weighing up whether he should opt 
for the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move into the PPF.
Mr K did in fact retire in March 2022. He did so on the basis of what hed been told by BFAL 
about its feasibility. As hes retired, and most likely would have been planning to on the basis 
of the advice from BFAL, I think that, suitably advised, Mr K would opted to enter the PPF. 
Pi Financial Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation on this basis in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.Pi Financial Ltd should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr K and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ks
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Pi Financial Ltd should:
calculate and offer Mr K redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr K before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr K receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr K accepts Pi Financial Ltds offer to calculate how much of its redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr K for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ks end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr K as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ks likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr K the compensation 
amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that Pi Financial Ltd pays Mr K the balance.
If Mr K accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Pi Financial Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mr K 
could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
As also set out by the investigator, my view is that Mr K will have been caused some 
considerable concern over the impact that this may have had on his retirement planning. As 
such, I agree that Pi Financial Ltd should also pay him £300 in respect of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Pi Financial Ltd to undertake the 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman