DRN-3870313
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has failed to refund £100,000 
he says he lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that RBS could have delayed the payments while concerns about the payee 
were discussed with Mr B.
So, I would need to be satisfied that the Swisspro Asset Management AG (Swisspro) 
was operating a scam when Mr B made the payment of £100,000 in his RBS branch on 
26 October 2017 in order to expect RBS to have done anything further here. Ive 
consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in 
the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization 
of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning list. These 
watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no 
warnings about Swisspro at the time Mr B made his payment in October 2017.
At the time Mr B made his payment, Swisspro was a legitimate fund management 
company that was authorised by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority 
(FINMA). I appreciate it later filed for bankruptcy in 2019, but that does not mean it had 
been operating fraudulently when the payment was made, and Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to suggest this was the case. Rather, the evidence demonstrates that Mr Bs 
money went to a business that was operating legitimately in another jurisdiction at the 
material time.  
Overall Im not persuaded that Swisspro was fraudulent or operating a scam. As a result, 
RBSs duty to intervene wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Mr Bs 
investments returning a loss, based on market performance. But RBS isnt required to 
protect its consumers from the risk of financial loss due to investment advice/choices, or 
bad bargains. Therefore, I dont consider the bank acted unfairly by preventing or failing 
to intervene in the payment being made. 
Mr B has further raised concerns that RBS ought to have done more in terms of anti-
money laundering checks due to the money being transferred to a Danish bank 
(Kovenhavns Andelskasse Bank) that was under investigation. Id like to assure Mr B 
that I have considered all the relevant law, regulations and good industry practice when 
considering his complaint. This includes anti-money laundering regulations, because 
although non-compliance with these regulations is more a wider matter for the regulator 
rather than our service, it is still something we consider when looking at whether a 
business could have prevented a fraud or scam. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded there was anything suspicious at the time that ought 
reasonably to have concerned RBS, or that it had any reason to suspect that Mr B was 
attempting to launder money himself. I understand the Danish bank may have been 
under investigation from the Danish authorities at the time. But I wouldnt have expected 
RBS to have known this, or to have prevented a payment being made to the bank as a 
result, given it was going to a seemingly legitimate company. So, I dont consider there to 
be any basis in which the bank can fairly on reasonably be held liable for his loss on this 
basis either.
Ive also thought about whether RBS ought to have done anything to recover the funds 
after Mr B reported his loss. However, given theres no evidence he had lost his money 
to a scam. the bank wouldnt have had any basis on which to recover the money from 
the receiving bank. Even if it was a scam, Mr B didnt dispute the payment with RBS until 
October 2021. Given the investment company has since become insolvent, it would be 
highly unlikely that the bank could have recovered any funds, particularly given it was 
around four years after the payment had been made. RBS also wouldnt have been 
under any obligation to consider refunding the payment under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, given the payment was made before the 
Code came into force.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
lost a significant amount of money. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would 
be fair and reasonable to hold RBS liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman