DRN-4016249
The complaint
Miss K complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have rejected several Direct Debit Guarantee 
claims on her bank account. 
What happened
Miss K complained to Lloyds as she says it refused to refund Direct Debits through the 
Guarantee scheme paid to three different companies. 
Lloyds looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it refunded a partial payment to 
one business until it challenged the refund and said the payment amount was correct. Lloyds 
said the other two claims were reviewed and it declined them as they had no prospect of 
success. So, Miss K brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said that she thought two of the claims were for billing disputes and not errors. 
The third she found was a payment that had been paid over two years and the amount had 
stayed the same. Our investigator said that if any error had happened, shed expect it to 
have been picked up and claimed for earlier. 
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Its very clear from the information Miss K has given our service that she feels very strongly 
about her complaint. Ive read through the information in its entirety and listened to all the 
calls, and having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will come as 
a disappointment to Miss K, but I hope after considering my reasoning, she will understand 
how and why I reached my outcome.
I want to clarify that I've considered Miss Ks detailed submissions about what happened. 
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Firstly, the Direct Debit Guarantee covers errors made in the processing of Direct Debit 
payments. It doesnt address disputes between the payer and the recipient organisation. On 
the Direct Debit website, the guarantee explains that:
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare event that 
there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the 
incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation.
Ive listened to the call Miss K had with Lloyds when she raised her dispute, and its clear 
Miss K has a billing dispute with two of the three companies.
The first company Miss K claimed for is her energy provider. Miss K explains on the call to 
Lloyds that shes in dispute over how much they have been charging her. So, Im satisfied 
this payment hasnt been set up in error and is instead a contractual dispute. 
The second payment was to a TV licensing company. Miss K explained that she hasnt had 
a TV licence for some time, so she shouldnt be paying for a licence. Again, this is something 
she will need to raise with the company. The payment hasnt been set up in error and it looks 
like its a case of Miss K forgetting to cancel it. Im satisfied this is not something that the 
guarantee is put in place to cover. Lloyds have also said the company in question have 
declined to work with Lloyds and Miss K would need to contact them directly. 
The third payment Miss K wanted returned had been set up in 2017 and was taken from her 
account monthly until November 2019. Im satisfied that if there was an error when this was 
set up, Miss K wouldve raised it shortly after. Miss K didnt raise any of the three payment 
issues until 2022. In this circumstance, Lloyds would need something to evidence it is an 
error rather than a dispute, and Ive not seen anything to suggest Miss K has provided this. 
Lloyds have gone on to say that if claims are unlikely to succeed, it wont process them, as 
the likelihood is it will need to then reverse the payments when the company rejects the 
claim. Im satisfied that Lloyds have followed the correct process here of directing Miss K 
back to the companys shes in dispute with. As Miss K hasnt raised any disputes about the 
mechanics of processing the Direct Debit payments, which is what the Direct Debit 
Guarantee covers, I dont find Lloyds have acted unfairly by declining the claims. 
The Direct Debit Guarantee doesnt cover everything that an organisation can ever dispute 
about payments made using Direct Debits. Instead, its for if an error is made in the payment 
of a Direct Debit by an organisation or bank. The examples the guarantee gives are clear 
that this is intended to deal with administrative and technical problems with Direct Debits 
rather than underlying disputes. Based on the information Ive seen; Miss Ks claims all 
appear to be contractual issues rather than errors.
I understand Miss K has had a long period of suffering with various health conditions. Im 
sorry to hear of what Miss K has been dealing with as it seems extremely challenging. Id like 
to reassure Miss K that Ive read and considered everything she told our investigator, but it 
doesnt change my outcome. Although some of Miss Ks conditions may have made it more 
difficult to deal with the companys involved in the three payments shes disputing, Im not 
convinced this means any claims under the Guarantee should be successful. The root cause 
of the three issues is still contractual. 
In my view, the details of the Direct Debit Guarantee Ive highlighted above mean that the 
entitlement to a refund isnt absolute. It requires that an error is made in the payment of the 
Direct Debit. Miss K has not provided any supporting evidence that demonstrates that the 
payments she is now disputing were made in error. Based on what Ive seen, I dont believe 
the fair way to resolve this dispute would be for me to simply require Lloyds to refund Miss K 
with no evidence that the payments were taken in error.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman