DRN-3251681
The complaint
Mr C complains One Insurance Limited delayed things following a motor insurance claim 
resulting in him incurring hire car and storage costs he otherwise wouldnt have. Mr Cs also 
unhappy with their customer service.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
On 14 December 2020 Mr C was unfortunately involved in an accident. Following this, due to 
the type of car he has, it was automatically collected by his manufacturers service centre, 
and taken to a garage. Ill call the garage E. 
Mr C says he called One the same day, to be told hed be updated the next day. Not having 
heard from them, he called them and was told there was no record of his claim. At this time, 
he was given a claim number, but told he wasnt eligible for a courtesy car, because E 
wasnt an approved repairer. He says he asked who the approved repairers were but had to 
wait until 18 December to be told this. 
Mr C says he made multiple calls to One and had to wait for 15 to 45 minutes each time. 
Eventually, on 23 December with the storage costs of his car coming to £498 by E, he paid 
this. He also needed a hire car to stay mobile due to caring responsibilities for a family 
member. He said the costs for the hire car was £340.66, and the cost of storage was £498  
so hed like to be refunded £838.66 caused by Ones delays.
One said from the information they had the claim was first reported on 16 December 2020, 
and they told him the next day they wouldnt be able to provide a courtesy car as Mr C had 
used his own garage. They said theyd only provide a courtesy car if one of their own 
garages was used  which Mr C then accepted. One said this was then set up on 
23 December due to a delay with the chosen approved repairer  who Ill call M. One felt the 
car hire and storage costs were incurred before theyd accepted Mr Cs claim, so wouldnt 
pay for this. But they did accept their claims department had caused some delays  and 
offered £150 for this.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so 
and upheld the complaint in part. He said having spoken to Mr C there was no evidence hed 
called them on 14 December as he said he had. And our Investigator felt it wasnt until 
18 December when really One was in a position to have moved forward with the claim using 
their own repairers. Because of that, our Investigator said Mr C should pay for the car hire 
and storage costs until 17 December, and then One should pay until 18 December. Our 
Investigator felt the £150 compensation One had already offered for the poor customer 
service was fair.
Although disappointed he wasnt getting all the costs back, Mr C didnt dispute the outcome. 
One didnt reply to our Investigators outcome, nor to several deadlines he provided  the last 
of which said hed be passing the case to an Ombudsman. As One still didnt reply to that, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what the policy terms say regarding the provision of a courtesy car, and 
storage fees.
The policy says, for the courtesy car:
If you have a Comprehensive policy and need the use of a car while your own is undergoing 
repair by one of our selected repairers they will provide you with a temporary replacement 
car
And, regarding storage fees, the policy says:
In the event of a valid claim where your car cannot be driven as a result of loss or damage 
covered under this policy, we will pay the reasonable cost of taking it to the nearest 
approved repairer, storage facility or home address We will pay the reasonable cost of 
storage.
Mr C has said he contacted One on the day of the accident, 14 December. But, hes not able 
to provide any evidence of that. He has been able to provide evidence of contact on 
16 December, and this is the date Ones claim notes for this issue start as well.
So, given that, Im satisfied 16 December is a reasonable place for me to start considering 
the case. The first note from One on this day says Mr C wanted to use his own garage  and 
One have recorded they told him he wouldnt be eligible for a courtesy car in those 
circumstances. On 17 December, there are notes showing Mr C called back in, and asked 
about using an approved repairer. It was agreed on this day, but not until later in the 
evening.
As a result of that, I think its reasonable to say from 18 December One were on notice Mr C 
was going to be using their approved repairer, and for them to have taken action 
accordingly.
The policy terms Ive mentioned above show Mr C was eligible for a courtesy car from 
18 December, after agreeing to have his car repaired by an approved repairer. And, the 
policy terms for storage fees says following an accident theyd also pay reasonable costs of 
this.
From the notes Ive got, it seems Mr Cs claim wasnt actually approved on their system until 
23 December. Between 18 December and 23 December, I can see Mr C contacted One on 
multiple occasions trying to get things moving along  and One accepted theyd caused 
some delays. They said this both to Mr C directly, and during their response to his complaint.
So, overall, Im satisfied One should reasonably refund Mr C the cost of the hire car and 
storage charges that hes paid since 18 December. In addition to that, as Mr C has paid 
those costs, he should be entitled to 8% simple interest, from the date he paid the invoices 
to the date of the settlement.In respect of the customer service Mr C has received I can see One have accepted its poor. 
So, as theyve accepted that I dont need to decide that itself, but I need to think about 
whether the compensation of £150 awarded by One is fair in all the circumstances.
Mr C has been clear and proactive in trying to move matters forward, and members of Ones 
own staff have told him on several occasions its not acceptable how many delays hes been 
experiencing. I also think, in the context of this complaint, Mr Cs proactiveness has saved 
One some money, given the finding Ive reached. Although that wouldnt be an appropriate 
basis on which to award compensation itself, I do think it really highlights the disparity 
between the two parties. 
Taking everything into account, I think £250 compensation is a fairer reflection of the distress 
caused to Mr C by Ones customer service failings.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C replied, and said he accepted my decision.
One said they didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said initially Mr C wanted to 
use his own garage, and they read out their script which says amongst other things they 
wont be responsible for storage costs and a courtesy car will only be provided by his chosen 
garage not by them. They added the terms of the policy also say where you choose to your 
own repairer this may lead to delays in us arranging the repairs to your car. They said as 
Mr C had recovered the car to his own garage, this caused further delays resulting in 
increased costs. They said they felt £150 was fair, as this was given for a slight delay in 
receiving a courtesy car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ones points, but I still think this complaint should be settled in the way I 
decided in my provisional decision.
I have noted what the script says  but in the end he didnt get his car repaired by his own 
garage he asked One to arrange this and did so on 17 December. Likewise, with the term 
which says where you choose to use your own repairer this may lead to delays in the repairs 
being carried out is a term I dont think applies to Mr C  this term appears to apply when 
someone is getting their car repaired at their own garage. But, as Ive said, from 17 
December Mr C wasnt.
One have said the offer of £150 is fair. And they have acknowledged a delay. But I dont 
think theyve fully recognised the impact of that delay. From the information Ive got as of 
18 December Mr C was using their own garage for his repairs  but this wasnt set up on 
their system until five days later. No explanation has been provided for this timeframe  
during which the costs were incurred. Mr C was proactive during this time  and was told on 
several occasions One were delaying things unnecessarily.
So, while Ive noted Ones comments, I remain of the opinion its right to refund Mr Cs hire 
car and storage charges from 18 December onwards, together with 8%. And I do think hes 
been caused greater inconvenience than One have recognised  so remain satisfied £250 is 
a fair amount of compensation.  
Putting things rightI require One to:
Refund Mr C all costs he paid for the hire car and storage charges from 
18 December onwards.
Pay Mr C 8%* simple interest from the date of payment, to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr C a total of £250 compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires One to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. One must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
One Insurance Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman