DRN-3629293
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her bank account and recorded a 
default with credit reference agencies. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Ms G held a Barclays bank account that had an overdraft facility. In December 2020, when 
the account exceeded its overdrawn limit, Ms G spoke with Barclays and a collections hold 
was agreed while a separate complaint shed raised was looked in to. Interest continued to 
be applied to the account until May 2021 when the overdraft facility was withdrawn  with an 
outstanding balance of about £3,000.
Barclays wrote to Ms G in June 2021 explaining the overdrawn balance on the account was 
critical and asked her to contact them. They also provided Ms G with two months notice 
that they may close her account. A further critical letter was sent the following month which 
explained that if Ms G didnt pay or get in touch then they would take steps to close the 
account and record a default with the credit reference agencies.
A termination notice was then sent to Ms G on 11 August 2011. Barclays said it would come 
into effect on 10 September 2021 and they would make demand for full and immediate 
repayment of the balance at that date. They also explained that it was their intention to 
register details of the account with credit reference agencies and that this could seriously 
affect Ms Gs ability to obtain credit. 
A repayment plan was set up on 19 August 2021 for £30 per month, with the first payment 
due in September 2021. After the first three payments had been paid, Barclays would then 
send out the paperwork to confirm the agreement. The next day Barclays sent Ms G 
confirmation that theyd agreed to increase the overall borrowing limit on a temporary basis 
in line with the current borrowing  with the expectation regular payments would be made to 
reduce the balance. 
Ms G visited a Barclays branch in September 2011 to make the first payment but was 
advised it wasnt possible as the account was closed and she didnt have a bank card. Ms G 
raised this issue with Barclays as she needed to be able to make payments and explained 
the experience was very upsetting and had affected her health. Ms G requested a bank card 
so that she could make payments and use the mobile app. She also raised concerns that 
interest had been applied to her account after December 2020, even though she was told 
that it wouldnt be.
Barclays spoke with Ms G on 19 October 2021 and she confirmed receipt of the bank card 
theyd sent her on 8 October 2021, as requested. They explained she should now make the 
£30 payment but Ms G requested that it be put on hold until November 2021. Barclays said 
they didnt think this could happen but would double check. 
Barclays then spoke to Ms G the following day and sent confirmation of their position  as a 
final response  in writing. In short, they said:
They were sorry for the poor experience Ms G received in branch and a prior 
telephone call when she was advised to go into branch. Feedback had been given to 
the branch staff to improve their service. 
They offered £250 for this, which Ms G accepted, and confirmed that it had been paid 
to her chosen bank account.
They were glad to hear the new bank card had been received and they were sorry it 
took so long to be issued.
They were unable to delay the loan plan (that Ill refer to as R plan) payment and 
suggested Ms G make it as soon as possible to stop the plan failing. Once the next 
two payments have been completed, theyd send the R plan paperwork to Ms G.
Ms Gs account had been put on a complaint hold in January 2021 (following the 
December 2020 call) but this didnt stop charges being added. They were sorry if 
incorrect information had been given. Once the overdraft facility was removed in May 
2021, the interest was stopped. 
Another letter was sent to Ms G the same day. This explained the repayment plan had been 
cancelled as it hadnt been kept to. It also said that information about how Ms G managed 
her accounts held with Barclays would be sent to credit reference agencies. 
Ms Gs account was closed and set to recoveries on 25 October 2021. Barclays recorded a 
default with credit reference agencies. 
The matter was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint. In short, she said:
She didnt think Barclays acted fairly by recording the default. This is because, 
although their letters explained information is shared with credit reference agencies, 
they ought to have informed Ms G that a default would be recorded if payment wasnt 
made. They didnt give Ms G the required default notice. 
Ms G tried to make the September 2021 payment, thereby showing a willingness to 
stick to the plan, but wasnt able due to errors by Barclays. She also later enquired 
about delaying the first months payment too.
A hold on the R plan wasnt put in place while the complaint about the payment issue 
was considered. Had it been, then Ms G may not be in the position she is now.
The cancellation letter was sent the same day as the final response from Barclays, 
which only advised to make the payment as soon as possible. Barclays therefore 
gave inadequate information about what would happen if the payment wasnt made. 
But, even if Ms G had been informed, this wouldnt have given her much time 
considering the plan was cancelled five days later. 
Although Ms G says she was told in December 2020 interest would be frozen, there 
wasnt anything to evidence this. And so, it was fair that interest only stopped when 
the overdraft facility was removed in May 2021. 
Barclays should remove the default recorded with credit reference agencies, 
reinstate the R plan so Ms G can make repayments towards the debt and pay her a 
further £250 compensation. 
Barclays and Ms G agreed with the investigators recommendations. But, upon contacting 
Ms G to arrange the repayment plan, Barclays informed her that they wouldnt be able to 
reopen the account or provide the bank card and access to the mobile app she wanted. Ms G was unhappy with this as, had the account not been closed in October 2021, then she 
wouldve still access to these facilities. 
Barclays confirmed that the account was closed in October 2021 and wouldnt be reopened. 
Because of this, they unable to provide a bank card (or access to the mobile app). But they 
clarified the options available to Ms G for repaying the debt being either:
Set up the R plan which has a maximum repayment term of five years. Due to the 
amount owed, Ms G would need to pay more than the £30 per month. If this option is 
chosen, arrears would continue to be reported to credit reference agencies until it 
was repaid.
Set up an interest free loan to repay the amount owed on the current account. This 
loan can however be set up over a longer repayment term, thereby allowing lower 
payments such as £30 per month. And as the current account debt would be repaid, 
it would mean arrears wouldnt be reported. 
Ms G remained dissatisfied with the situation, refusing to repay the debt unless the account 
was reopened and banking facilities provided. She said it wasnt her fault that the account 
was closed but rather, it was due to bank error. So, she wants to be returned to the situation 
she was in prior to the account being closed. 
Our investigator explained to Ms G that Barclays can close an account if they no longer want 
to maintain the relationship. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been 
referred to me to decide. 
I understand Ms G has raised additional concerns about the collection activities for the debt, 
from both Barclays and an agent acting on their behalf. I wont be considering these 
concerns in this decision. Ms G will need to raise this as a separate complaint, if she hasnt 
already done so, before the Financial Ombudsman can consider it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Ms G that Ive given careful consideration to everything shes said in 
support of her complaint. I realise her frustration with whats happened and I dont 
underestimate the importance of this matter to her. But Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and I think the options proposed by Barclays are fair. Ill explain 
why.
Barclays has agreed to remove the default they reported to credit references agencies. I 
think this is fair in the circumstances and so I dont intend to comment on this further. The 
issue at hand however is the setting up of the repayment plan as Ms G argues that Barclays 
should re-open her account and provide the banking facilities she previously had. Ms G says 
the Financial Ombudsman has the powers to tell Barclays to do this. 
Ive given this careful consideration but I dont think that would be appropriate here. While I 
accept Ms G was given a bank card and access to the mobile app prior to the account 
closure, this doesnt mean Barclays are obligated to provide these services going forward. 
This is because, generally, a Bank can commercially decide what banking services (if any) they wish to provide their customers  with any account closure subject to being handled in 
line with the account terms. 
In Ms Gs case, Im aware that Barclays wrote to her in June 2021 providing the two months 
written notice required. Ms G was therefore put on notice this may happen. That said, I 
appreciate the account closed several months later and after a repayment plan had been 
agreed. So, understandably, Ms G wouldnt necessarily have expected it to have happened 
at the time  particularly as she was in discussions about trying to make the payment. But 
even if I were to conclude that Barclays should revert Ms G back to the position she was in 
prior to the account closure, Barclays would nevertheless be within their right to remove the 
banking services. I therefore dont think this would be of any benefit to either party. And so, I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to direct Barclays to do so. 
Furthermore, I think its also relevant to add that the closure of the account hasnt limited 
Ms Gs day to day banking services. This is because, at the point of closure, the account 
was overdrawn and there werent funds available for Ms G to use. I appreciate Ms G may 
have found a bank card and access to the mobile app useful so that she could pay money 
into the account, but I dont think these services are a necessity for the debt to repaid. 
The amount owed on the account needs to be paid. Barclays has presented two options to 
Ms G. I consider these options reasonable given they give Ms G flexibility to choose the 
term, and the amount, she wants to repay it over. Its therefore for Ms G to decide which 
option is most suitable for her circumstances. When agreeing the repayment method, 
Barclays should take into consideration Ms Gs financial situation and what is affordable to 
her. 
Ive also considered Ms Gs claim that she was told the interest on her account would be 
frozen in December 2020, when there was a collections hold put in place due to an ongoing 
complaint. Unfortunately, the call recording isnt available and so I cant be sure what was 
discussed at the time. The call note also doesnt make any reference to account interest 
either. So, although Ive considered Ms Gs testimony, Im afraid there isnt any evidence to 
support it. Because of this, I cant fairly conclude Barclays agreed to stop charging interest 
on her account. Therefore, in the absence of anything to show otherwise, I think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to administer Ms Gs account in line with the account terms. It 
follows that I consider it was reasonable for interest to be applied. 
The matter has however caused Ms G trouble and upset that couldve been avoided, as 
accepted by Barclays. This includes the default being incorrectly reported to credit reference 
agencies, the poor branch experience when Ms G tried to make the £30 payment and the 
time spent trying to resolve the matter with Barclays. Ive thought about what amount of 
compensation is fair and I think £500, as recommended by our investigator, is a reasonable 
figure. Im therefore not increasing it any further. I understand Barclays has already paid this 
and, if so, then no further payment will be needed. 
I appreciate Ms Gs strength of feeling on this matter but I think the options put forward by 
Barclays are fair. And I dont think theyre required to reopen the bank account as part of any 
agreement for the debt to repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Remove the default that was reported to credit reference agencies.
Set up a repayment plan in line with the options put forward by Barclays Bank UK PLC, as per above, taking into account Ms Gs financial situation.
If they havent already, pay Ms G a total of £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman