DRN-3672343
The complaint
Mr C complains about the information Vitality Health Limited gave him in relation to getting 
continuous cover for a private health insurance policy. My references to Vitality include its 
agents.
What happened
Mr C had private health insurance through his employers, insured by Vitality. On 17 March 
2022 he called Vitality as he was leaving his employer on 1 April 2022 and he wanted to buy 
a private policy to give him continuous cover. 
When Vitalitys continuous cover team asked Mr C risk assessment medical questions he 
said a previous scan showed he had a small kidney stone, the doctor advised he have a 
review scan but he hadnt been able to attend the review appointment. Vitality told Mr C that 
if it quoted for a personal policy with the planned scan still outstanding it would increase the 
premium. Mr C said he would book the scan under his existing policy and asked to be put 
through to Vitalitys claims team for authorisation of the cost. Following Mr Cs discussion 
with the claims team he was transferred back to the continuous cover team.
Mr C complains that:
Vitalitys claims team told him he didnt need a scan if he had no symptoms and it 
wouldnt cover the cost of the x-ray. He asked Vitalitys claims team if that meant he 
could say no when asked if he had outstanding investigations and was told he could. 
He asked Vitality to confirm what it told him in writing but Vitality hadnt done so.
When he transferred back to Vitalitys continuous cover team and asked the question 
about investigations he said hed been told to answer the question as no but he did 
have an open investigation. He was told the new policy premiums would still be 
affected. He asked for a manager at Vitality to investigate as he was going round in 
circles between Vitalitys teams. 
He spoke to a manager who said it would contact him before his existing policy 
ended but that didnt happen. Vitality contacted him after his cover ended and said its 
claims team gave him wrong information, but the representative was new, and as 
most of what it told him was correct it wouldnt reduce the cost of a new policy. 
Vitalitys actions left him with no private medical cover. Vitalitys delay in looking at 
his complaint meant he had the choice of paying the higher premium for the new 
policy or not having continuous cover as he couldnt get a scan before his existing 
policy ended. If Vitality had responded sooner he could have had a scan and been 
covered if he needed treatment.
He wants Vitality to cover the cost of the scan and reinstate his cover until he can 
find a new insurer. He also wants compensation for his distress and inconvenience .
Vitality said:
On the 17 March 2022 call when Mr C said he needed an x-ray but had no symptoms 
its claims team correctly told him the policy didnt cover monitoring or preventative 
treatment.
It accepted there was miscommunication in Mr Cs call with its claims team. Mr C 
misinterpreted that its representative had told him he didnt need the treatment, but 
what it actually told him was the scan wasnt covered by the policy terms. It accepted 
it hadnt sent the email Mr C requested to confirm what was discussed in the call. 
When Mr C was transferred back to its continuous cover team it confirmed that 
although he had no symptoms he still had an ongoing claim as his consultant wanted 
to review his condition so his new personal policy premium would be affected.
Our investigator said Vitality didnt need to reinstate cover for Mr C or pay for his scan but 
Vitality should pay Mr C £175 compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its 
poor service.
Mr C accepted our investigators recommendation. But he queried how his x-ray could be not 
covered by the policy but still affect his new policy premium if the scan remained 
outstanding. He also said Vitality gave no previous indication that it would refuse the scan 
due to a time bar.
Vitality didnt think it should pay any compensation to Mr C. It said although its claims team 
gave Mr C confusing information that was corrected when he was transferred to its 
continuous cover team.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Vitality acted fairly and reasonably and if not whats a fair remedy. 
I think Vitality didnt act fairly but our investigators recommendation on how it should put 
things right is fair, Ill explain why.
Vitalitys final response letter to Mr C set out the relevant terms of the policy he had through 
his employer which show theres no cover for routine follow-up consultations or for the 
monitoring of a medical condition
Ive listened to the calls between Mr C and Vitality. Vitalitys claims team correctly told Mr C 
there was no cover under his existing policy for his review scan. Vitality didnt say there was 
no cover because Mr C took too long to have the scan, there just is no cover for a routine 
follow-up scan monitoring a medical condition under the policy terms.
But the outstanding scan could still have an impact on the premium for a new personal policy 
Mr C was looking to take out. Thats because when/if Mr C had the outstanding scan its 
possible he would need treatment which potentially Mr C could have claimed for on a new 
policy. So the new policy would be carrying an unknown risk around the scan and in those 
circumstances an insurer usually either increases the premium or excludes the scan and 
treatment.
In the first part of the 17 March 2022 call Vitalitys continuous cover team was very clear 
about the need for Mr C to correctly answer questions about the scan and the potential effect 
on the premium of a new policy if the scan was or wasnt outstanding. Mr C decided not to 
take the option of being quoted for the premium with the scan still outstanding and said he 
would get the scan done in the two weeks under his existing policy. Although Vitalitys claims team correctly told Mr C there was no cover for the scan under his 
existing policy terms there was some miscommunication in that call, which Vitality accepts. 
Mr C thought Vitality was saying he didnt need the scan, whereas it was telling him the scan 
wasnt covered by the policy. Vitalitys claim team isnt medically trained to be able say 
whether a policyholder medically needs a procedure. Its role is to authorise treatment thats 
eligible under the policy terms. I think it would have been much less confusing for Mr C if 
Vitality had explained that to him. The claims team also incorrectly told him the open 
investigation wouldnt impact on his continuation policy. When Mr C spoke to Vitalitys 
continuous cover team again it correctly told him that the scan was still an ongoing and 
would affect the premium for the new policy. I think Mr C was understandably confused as 
hed received conflicting information.
Mr C did speak to one of Vitalitys mangers after a chasing call. I appreciate Mr C thinks the 
manager took too long to look into his complaint. But I think it was reasonable for the 
manager to want to listen to the calls and under the regulatory rules a business has eight 
weeks to respond to a policyholders complaint and Vitality responded well within the  
timescale.
The manager told Mr C that although Vitalitys service could have been better hed been 
correctly told the outstanding scan would affect the premium for the new policy. So Mr C had 
the correct information before his existing policy ended and also on 6 April 2022 he had 
confirmation from the manager that information was correct. Vitality told Mr C in the first call 
he had 30 days after hed left the existing policy to get continuous cover so he had the 
correct information within that period.
I dont think theres any basis for me to say Vitality should pay for the scan. The policy is 
clear it doesnt cover the cost of a routine follow-up monitoring scan. On 17 March 2022 the 
claims team correctly told Mr C the scan wasnt covered by the policy terms so from then, if 
not before, he knew he would need to pay for the scan.
I dont think theres any basis for me to say Vitality should reinstate cover for Mr C. Within 
the relevant time Mr C had enough information to decide whether he took the new personal 
policy at the higher price or pay for a scan himself before doing so. Vitality isnt responsible if 
Mr C couldnt get a scan within that timescale.
Vitality accepts it should have given Mr C better service and I think it should pay 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience its poor service caused. Its clear from 
listening to the calls that the wrong information given by Vitalitys claims team caused Mr C 
considerable unnecessary confusion which meant he doubted the correct information he was 
subsequently re-given by the continuous cover team and led him to make his complaint. 
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I think £175 compensation for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience is 
a reasonable amount.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr C £175 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman