DRN-3141411
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Scottish Widows Limited unfairly declined her critical illness claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only refer to some key 
events here. 
Mrs L took out a life and critical illness policy with Scottish Widows. Cover started on 
4 August 2017. The policy provided cover, on a decreasing basis, in the event Mrs L died or 
was diagnosed with a listed critical illness within the 25-year term. 
Mrs L was in contact with Scottish Widows in 2021, during this contact she mentioned shed 
suffered a stroke in 2017. Scottish Widows agreed to consider a retrospective claim but 
explained it would need to determine if the stroke had occurred during the policy term. 
Having completed its assessment, Scottish Widows declined the claim. It said that while an 
MRI scan from December 2017 had shown Mrs L had suffered an infarction of the brain 
gliosis (a stroke), the consultant had noted it was quite historic and couldnt say when it 
had occurred. It also noted that Mrs Ls neurological symptoms started in July 2017, before 
the policy started. So, Scottish Widow concluded the evidence didnt demonstrate Mrs L had 
met the policy definition during the term of cover, as the critical illness event likely pre-dated 
the policy. 
Mrs L disagreed and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt think Scottish Widows had acted unfairly. She explained that while it was 
clear Mrs L hadnt been diagnosed until after the policy started, the key date was when the 
stroke had actually occurred. The evidence suggested it was likely before covered started. 
Mrs L remained dissatisfied and asked for a final decision. She noted there was a delay in 
her undergoing the MRI scan, which could account for the infarction being referred to as 
historic. But that her consultant agreed her symptoms from the summer of 2017 would 
explain the stroke. She said when she went to the doctor two weeks before the policy 
started, there was no indication at that point she may have suffered a stroke and shes not 
sure those symptoms were related to a stroke. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs L as this was not the answer 
she was hoping for. I should stress that I dont underestimate the severity of Mrs Ls 
condition, or indeed the impact its had on her day to day life. But in deciding this case I had 
to consider if Scottish Widows was fair to conclude that the policy definition hadnt been met 
during the policy term. Having carefully considered everything, I think it was fair to reach that 
conclusion. Ill explain why. 
For a claim to be payable there would need to be persuasive medical evidence that Mrs L 
suffered a listed critical illness, and that the critical illness happened during the policy term. 
The policy definition of stroke is:
Stroke
Death of brain tissue due to inadequate blood supply or haemorrhage within the skull
resulting in permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
(i) Transient ischaemic attack.
(ii) Traumatic injury to brain tissue or blood vessels.
(iii) Death of tissue of the optic nerve or retina.
There appears to be acceptance that Mrs L has, at some stage, suffered a stroke. An MRI 
scan performed in December 2017 showed a small area of gliosis which is wedge shaped. 
Infarction would be a possible cause, i.e. shed likely suffered death of brain tissue due to 
inadequate blood supply. The issue is whether the infarction, or stroke, occurred during the 
period of cover, which started on 4 August 2017. 
The consultant neurologist, who Ill refer to as Dr M, noted we dont know when [the 
infarction] occurred  it may have been perinatal or more recent and it looks relatively old 
and we are not certain when it occurred. But she went on to say, It may, however, explain 
the symptoms that she had in the summer. Mrs Ls medical records show that she first 
consulted her GP with neurological symptoms, including dizziness and loss of balance, in 
July 2017. She was referred to a neurologist in August 2017 as these symptoms persisted. 
Dr M referred Mrs L for an MRI scan in September 2017, having noted that her symptoms 
started in early July.  
In light of this, I think Scottish Widows fairly and reasonably concluded that the available 
medical evidence didnt demonstrate Mrs L had suffered an insured event (a stroke) during 
the term of cover. As such, it was under no duty to pay her claim. 
Ive considered Mrs Ls concerns that had she undergone an MRI scan sooner than she did 
then it wouldnt have been historic. While I can understand her point of view, it doesnt 
change my view on her complaint. Ultimately theres no clear compelling medical evidence 
to suggest that the infarction/stroke happened after the policy started in August 2017. I also 
appreciate Mrs Ls point that there was no mention in July 2017 that she may have suffered 
a stroke. But I think its significant that her treating consultant linked her neurological 
symptoms, that started in July 2017, to the infarction. 
Overall, while I can see it must be dissatisfying to Mrs L that theres no clear evidence to 
show when she suffered a stroke, I consider Scottish Widows was reasonable to conclude 
that it most likely didnt occur during the policy term. As such, I think it was reasonable for it 
to decline Mrs Ls claim on the basis that she didnt meet the policy terms. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman