DRN-3813517
The complaint
Mr N has complained to Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) about advice he received to 
transfer his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2014 Mr N was cold called by a business offering him a review of his pensions. Mr N 
agreed to the review and a meeting was arranged with an adviser from Portal.
The suitability report completed by the adviser at the time of advice recorded Mr Ns 
circumstances as follows:  
He was 51 years old, married and employed earning £18,000 per year. 
He owned his own home, which was worth approximately £200,000 and he had 
an outstanding mortgage of £170,000.  
He had no other assets and disposable income of £200 per month. 
Mr N had been assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk (ATR).
The paperwork also confirmed that Mr N held a personal pension with a provider Ill 
refer to as Firm A. This plan had a transfer value of £10,659 and over the past five 
years it had produced an average return of 12.36%. Mr N was being charged a 0.75% 
annual management charge (AMC) by Firm A and the plan had an early exit charge. 
Mr Ns objectives at that time were recorded as: 
Improved fund performance
To move away from equity backed funds
Switch to a cheaper scheme
Greater fund choice
Flexibility
The adviser recommended that Mr N start a Stakeholder pension plan, contributing £40 
per month. It also recommended that he transfer his plan with Firm A to a SIPP with 
Novia. And that he invests the SIPP in the following funds:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC 4.96% 
Marbella Resort and Spa PLC 7.94% 
Real Estate Investments USA PLC 7.94%
Motion Picture Global Investments PLC 7.94%
Strategic Residential Developments PLC 4.96% 
Tambaba Developments PLC 7.94%
UK Hotel Development 4.96% 
Invesco Perpetual Distribution 10.67%
Kames Ethical Cautious Managed 10.67% 
Premier Multi Asset Distribution 10.67% 
Standard Life Dynamic Distribution 10.67%
Cash 10.68%
Mr N accepted the recommendation. The Stakeholder plan was set up and his Firm A 
personal pension was transferred. It was initially transferred to the Stakeholder plan in 
error but was subsequently moved to the SIPP and invested as set out above. Portal 
charged Mr N an initial fee of 5% of the total transfer value of the Firm A plan and an 
ongoing adviser charge of 1% per annum. The AMC for the Novia SIPP was 0.5%. And 
the Stakeholder plan had an AMC 0.55%. 
In 2019, with assistance from a Claims Management Company, Mr N complained to Portal 
about the advice hed received in respect of the transfer. In summary, he complained that:
 
He was provided with unsuitable advice to transfer his former pension and make 
high risk investments
He was unhappy with the charges and didnt think they were explained properly
He didnt understand why the former scheme was unsuitable for his aims
Portal reviewed the complaint but it was satisfied that itss recommendation was suitable so 
it didnt uphold the complaint. Dissatisfied with Portals response, Mr N referred his complaint 
to our service for review. 
Our investigators view 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In his opinion letter, 
he set out his views on each of the aims and objectives stated in the suitability report. In 
summary he said: 
Improved performance
One of the stated aims was to improve the performance of the pension fund. 
Sometimes this is done if the fund is consistently underperforming. The suitability 
report highlights that the existing pension has been achieving around 12.36% 
average growth per year, over the previous 5 years.
There were a number of brief descriptions explaining the unregulated investments 
including the proposed return per annum. But no projections for total expected return 
from the new investments. Therefore, the investigator was unable to confirm why this 
recommended investment would be suitable to achieve that aim nor how it expected 
to beat the returns which had been achieved by this fund.
Reduce the cost of the pension
Portal has suggested another reason for recommending this transfer was to reduce 
the cost of the pension. 
The 0.5% SIPP management charge is cheaper than the Firm A management 
charge. But when taking into account the 1% ongoing adviser fees attributable to the 
SIPP, it would actually work out as more expensive than the previous arrangement.
There was also a 5% transfer fee, and an early exit fee on the Firm A plan. With no 
explanation of how this would be recouped by the recommended products.
This meant it wasnt a suitable recommendation to achieve reduced fees for the 
Mr N.
Flexibility
One of the stated aims of the transfer was to create more flexibility in the pension. 
The recommendation to move the personal pension to a SIPP therefore is questionable. There are often suitable investments available from the current pension 
provider, which do not usually incur transfer costs or early exit fees.
The new arrangement was also made less flexible as the recommendation to invest 
in the bonds, required Mr N to sign the below statement:
I fully understand that the bonds invested in via the Novia Platform are relatively 
illiquid. This is acceptable to me as I do not wish to annuitise or take benefits from 
this plan for 13 years and therefore do not need to access the funds within my 
pension plan until this time.
Taking account of the above, the investigator was unsure why this would have been 
a suitable recommendation, when considering one of the main aims was to increase 
the flexibility of the pension.
Reduction of risk
Another aim of the switch was to reduce the risk presented by the Firm A funds. Mr N 
was noted as having a balanced attitude to risk and therefore an investment in line 
with this would be sought after.
The Firm A funds were held as 17% Security fund, which invests in the money 
market and would be considered low risk and 83% International fund which appear to 
be a global equities tracker which is a high-medium risk investment. The investigator 
considered the overall mixture of these two previous funds as not unreasonable for a 
balanced risk investor.
However, in the new arrangement, there appears to have around 46.64% of the 
pension invested in potentially illiquid investments which rely on the underlying 
project being successful and put Mr Ns capital at risk if the projects fail.
The investigator thought these made them higher risk investments and didnt believe 
Mr N was likely to understand the risk and complexity of these projects. The 
investigator highlighted the Marbella Resort and Spa PLC, as an example of this. 
This investment was behind on its funding and Novia suspended investments into 
this fund in September 2014.
Overall, the investigator didnt think it was in Mr Ns best interests to switch his pension. So 
he set out in his opinion letter what Portal needed to do to put things right. 
Both Mr N and Portal accepted the investigators findings so our of file was closed on 
the basis that Portal would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings.
However, Portal subsequently retracted its agreement to the investigators findings. It 
said that it was concerned the investigator had said that the charges were higher with 
the SIPP when factoring Portals initial and ongoing advice fees. It thought that this was 
unreasonable as this assumed Portal should not have charged a fee for the service 
provided. It said that had the advice been for Mr N to retain his personal pension or 
switch funds within his portfolio, then Portal would still have required a fee of some kind.
It also said that the investigator had unfairly conflated the 1% ongoing fee it charged with the 
provider fees. It felt that the Novia SIPP was the cheaper option when factoring Portals 
initial fee. The ongoing fee wasnt factored into the analysis because this service was 
optional and Mr N wasnt obliged to continue ongoing management of the plan. Considering this, Portal felt that the investigator had incorrectly concluded that the transfer was 
unsuitable because of the higher charges.  
Mr N hadnt received his settlement from Portal, so he contacted our service and asked for 
his complaint to reopened.
 
As both parties requested that the matter be reopened, it was agreed that the complaint 
would be passed to an ombudsman to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the regulators handbook, Portal has an 
obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty to comply with any settlement it has 
agreed to. I refer Portal to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements DISP 3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
1. any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
2.any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my 
emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply 
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portal retracted its agreement to settle this 
complaint in line with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of 
this matter for Mr N but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Its also disappointing that Portal has raised this point about its fees when ultimately, the 
SIPP was unsuitable for other reasons; even if the transfer was deemed suitable, the 
investments were not. 
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by 
both parties. But in this case Mr N also requested that the matter be reopened, so we have 
agreed to do so on this occasion.
Firstly, I should explain that I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for mostly 
the same reasons. So I dont intend to reiterate what the investigator has already said; I only 
intend to address the issue that Portal has said it no longer accepts, that being the issue of 
its ongoing fee being taken into account.
As alluded to above, the issue of whether the new arrangement was more expensive is only 
one of the reasons this complaint was upheld. So even if I was to determine that the new 
arrangement was cheaper, which I havent, the complaint still succeeds on the other 
aspects. 
I say this because, regardless of the cost of the SIPP, they arent suitable for every investor. 
While they offer greater flexibility in terms of the types of investments that can be made into 
them, this flexibility isnt necessarily something that less experienced investors, like Mr N, 
require. And SIPPs generally tend to be suited to investors that are comfortable making their 
own investment decisions or who have sufficient funds to pay to have their funds managed. 
Mr N wasnt either of these. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the investments Portal recommended were unsuitable. 
Having considered the investments further, I agree this was the case. They were high risk 
and Mr N didnt have the appetite for risk or capacity for loss that these types of investments 
carried. Portal classed Mr N as having a balanced ATR. However, given his lack of 
investment experience and his capacity for loss, I think he should have been more 
accurately described as having a low/medium ATR.
The main reason the transfer was recommended and the SIPP was established seems to 
have been so Mr N could invest in a number of UCIS and other high risk investments, which 
were not suitable for him. So, as Ive already said above, the complaint still succeeds even if 
the transfer was deemed suitable. As such, the remedy to put things right is the same, 
regardless of the findings in terms of the actual transfer. 
However, for completeness, I have addressed Portals concerns about the fees below. 
Portal says that by factoring in its initial and ongoing advice fee the investigator concluded 
the transfer was unsuitable. But it considers this is unreasonable as it assumes Portal 
shouldnt have charged a fee for the service provided, even if it had recommended that Mr N 
retain his exiting plan or switch funds within his existing arrangement.
 
Its my understanding that Mr N had agreed to a free pension review so had Portal not 
recommended Mr N take any action with his pension, it wouldnt have been able to charge a 
fee. However, I do accept that if it had given Mr N advice to switch investments within his 
current plan, then it might have decided to charge a fee for this particular advice. But thats 
not what happened here. 
Mr N was cold called by a company working for Portal so it doesnt suggest to me that he 
was so unhappy with his existing arrangement that he was actively looking to move his 
pension fund or switch investments. 
The fees represented a sizable reduction to Mr Ns already modest transfer value. And the 
ongoing SIPP charges made the cost higher than his existing arrangement. Portals initial 
fee was 5% of Mr Ns transferred fund value and its ongoing advice fee was 1%. I appreciate 
that the ongoing servicing was an optional service that Mr N chose to have. But with so little 
investment experience, I cant see that Mr N would have been happy to manage the SIPP 
investments himself. So whilst it may have been an optional service, I think the cost needed 
to be included in the overall assessment.
The SIPPs AMC was 0.5% and there were additional charges for each individual investment 
within the SIPP. Whereas for Mr Ns existing plan, the only cost he was incurring was a 
0.75% AMC. 
Mr Ns existing arrangement was invested more in line with his ATR and the average return 
over the past 5 years was high at 12.925%. That meant that when taking account of the 
significant reduction in fund value after Portals fees and ongoing charges were taken - and 
bearing in mind Mr N was, at most, a balanced investor - I dont believe there was great 
prospect of making up the cost of the switch via investment growth without taking significant 
investment risks. And as Ive already said, I dont believe the investment approach Portal 
advised Mr N to take was suitable. 
I think more appropriate advice wouldve been for Mr N to leave his existing pension where it 
was. And had Portal provided Mr N with this suitable advice when it completed its free 
pension review  no fees would have been payable in respect of the transfer. I therefore uphold this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay redress as 
set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr N would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr N would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio Status Benchmark From (start To (end Additional name date) date) interest
The SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr N provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr N's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr N's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr N into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
N would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr N could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr N in a clear, 
simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman