DRN-2297238
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about the service she has received from Secure Trust Bank Plc. She 
says that she received multiple emails saying she had changed her nominated bank details 
when this wasnt true and that she didnt receive the service she should have on a call on 10 
December 2019 when she was trying to set up a new fixed rate bond account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs T called Secure Trust on 10 December after trying to set up a new account. 
Secure Trust has explained that if a customer who already has accounts with it 
applies for a new savings account and uses different information to that on the 
existing accounts the customer will be prompted to call so that the accounts can be 
linked. When Mrs T called on 10 December, she was unable to answer all the initial 
security questions and further questions were asked. I find it reasonable that Secure 
Trust carried out its usual security checks and that when the primary questions 
werent answered correctly, additional questions were asked. The account Mrs T 
wished to open on the 10 December call was opened on that day and linked to her 
other accounts. 
I can understand why Mrs T was concerned when she received emails in December 
2019, saying that her account details had been amended. She hadnt made any 
changes. She raised her concerns with Secure Trust, and it responded on 
17 December explaining that Mrs Ts account details had been manually verified 
followed a previous information submission and that an automated email had been 
generated. It accepted the information in the email was misleading and apologised. 
My role isnt to punish the bank but where a mistake has been made to ensure the 
customer is put back in the position they would have been had this not happened. In 
this case, Mrs T was sent emails that said her account details had been amended 
which wasnt correct. However, Secure Trust has confirmed that Mrs Ts account 
details hadnt been changed and so there is no further action required to address this 
issue. 
Where a mistake has been made, I can award compensation and Mrs T believes this 
is required for the upset and inconvenience caused by the emails. I note the 
comments about the emails being from a no reply email address and so Mrs T had 
to write to Secure Trust about the issue. However, as Secure Trust responded to 
Mrs T on 17 December, this issue wasnt outstanding for any extended period. Given 
it was confirmed no changes had been made to the account I do not find I can say 
Mrs T was caused any material inconvenience or distress. So, while I understand her 
request for compensation, in this case I find the apology provided was sufficient. 
Secure Trust has confirmed that Mrs Ts account are all linked and so all should be 
visible when Mrs T accesses her accounts online and that separate details arent 
required to be sent when a new account is opened. It has confirmed that Mrs T has 
been able to log into her account. As nothing further was raised by Mrs T in response 
to our investigators view on the issue about her internet banking I havent considered 
this issue further.
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman