DRN-3850992
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc wont reimburse him after he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Background
Mr D has an account with Bank of Scotland. In July 2021, he began to make payments that 
he believed were in connection with an investment opportunity. Unfortunately, the person 
who was advising him on this wasnt a legitimate investment professional, but a scammer. 
Mr D made several transfers to a cryptocurrency wallet that he held with a different business. 
That account was in his name. The cryptocurrency was then transferred onwards from that 
account to the scammers. 
Once Mr D realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he notified Bank of Scotland. However, it 
said it wouldnt reimburse him. It didnt think he had carried out adequate checks before 
investing his money. 
Mr D was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. His 
representatives explained the methods used by the scammers to make the investment 
appear credible. They also explained that there were several factors that made Mr D 
particularly vulnerable at the time he fell victim to this scam. 
The complaint was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She pointed out that 
Bank of Scotland is required to be on the lookout for transactions that might look fraudulent. 
In this instance, she didnt think that the payments Mr D had made to his cryptocurrency 
account wouldve appeared unusual when using the typical activity on his bank account as a 
benchmark for comparison. She also thought the value of the payments was low enough that 
they wouldnt have stood out. 
Mr D disagreed with the Investigators view. He said that Bank of Scotland shouldve 
recognised that he was making payments to a beneficiary that is a well-established recipient 
of the proceeds of scams such as this one. Hed not used his account very much in the 
months before the scam and so these large transactions ought to have stood out. 
Because Mr D disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground here that Mr D authorised the payments, although he didnt carry them 
out himself. Nonetheless, they were made with his consent and, although he didnt intend 
the money to go to fraudsters, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Bank 
of Scotland should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts, and any payments made or received, to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks are generally 
more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make the payment altogether.
We know now that Mr D was the victim of a scam, but the question I must consider is what 
Bank of Scotland shouldve done given the information that was available to it at the time. 
Ive considered the evidence carefully and I agree with the conclusions of the Investigator 
that these payments wouldnt have appeared unusual or out of character. 
The largest payment made in connection with the scam was for £3,000. All else being the 
same, I wouldnt normally expect Bank of Scotland to treat a payment of that size as being 
indicative of a fraud risk. Furthermore, there was very little activity on the account in the 
twelve months prior to the scam. Without an established pattern of account use, its 
significantly more difficult to identify activity that deviates from the norm. Bank of Scotland 
needs to strike a balance between carrying out the legitimate payment instructions of its 
customers and monitoring accounts for fraud. Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that this 
pattern of account activity was such that it couldve reasonably assumed there was an 
increased risk of fraud.
Mr D says Bank of Scotland shouldve recognised the risk of fraud given who he was making 
the payments to  a business specialising in the management of cryptocurrency accounts. I 
think the implication here is that there should be a presumption that any payment connected 
with cryptocurrency is likely to be fraudulent. It is true that there are clear risks associated 
with investing in cryptoassets. However, I dont think it follows that all transactions connected 
with an investment in cryptocurrency are more likely than not connected with an attempted 
fraud or that individuals who want to invest their money in cryptocurrency shouldnt be free to 
do so. A balance must be struck by Bank of Scotland between monitoring accounts for 
fraudulent activity and allowing legitimate payments to be made.
Mr Ds representatives have told me about his personal circumstances at the time of the 
scam and that, for several reasons, he was particularly vulnerable. Unfortunately, from the 
evidence Ive seen, Bank of Scotland wasnt aware of these circumstances and so it couldnt 
take them into consideration when determining whether it needed to intervene to protect Mr 
D from financial harm. 
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Mr D has been the victim of a 
cruel and cynical scam. I know that he will be hugely disappointed with my decision. But 
overall, Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland didnt do anything wrong in processing these 
payments.Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman