DRN-3223644
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt refunded her the money she lost 
after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) impersonation / lottery scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary, Mrs W 
fell victim to a scam. 
At the end of May / start of June 2021, Mrs W received some social media messages. It 
appeared to be from an ex work-colleague, but it was really a fraudster. 
Mrs W was led to believe that her ex-colleague had won £80,000 through a social media 
promotion, and Mrs W was advised that her name was on the list of winners also. 
Mrs W was then provided with a link from her ex-colleague to another contact on the social 
media website. Mrs W contacted this person who confirmed Mrs W had won £90,000. Mrs W 
was advised that obtain the winnings she needed to pay £850 for delivery and clearance 
fees.
As Mrs W didnt use online banking, the scammer asked Mrs W to make the payments 
though a money transfer service provider. Mrs W attempted to make the payment on two 
occasions, which ultimately were unsuccessful. Mrs W subsequently went into branch to 
make the payment  which she did on 14 June 2021.
Having made the payment, Mrs W was then told by the scammer that security guards and 
insurance were required for the delivery of the winnings and this meant a further £3,000 was 
payable. Mrs W went back into her branch the same day and made the payment.
Mrs W then received a further message the next morning explaining that the winnings had 
been stopped in transit in America, by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Mrs W was 
required to pay 10% in tax (£9,000). Mrs W didnt have the full funds available but 
transferred £8,500 instead. Mrs W again made the payment in branch. The payment was 
flagged by Santander for further checks and Mrs W spoke with its fraud team while in 
branch. Mrs W informed Santander that the payments were for building work. Satisfied with 
Mrs W responses, the payment was released.
Several hours later, Mrs W was then informed that the winnings were in the UK, but that she 
needed to provide a further £6,500 clearance fee. Mrs W didnt have the funds and after 
managing to contact her genuine ex-colleague in person, uncovered that she had been the 
unfortunate victim of a scam. 
Mrs W reported the matter to Santander who were able to recover £476.69 from the 
receiving bank (the account used by the scammer).
Santander also considered whether Mrs W was due a refund of the outstanding monies she 
had lost. Santander considered the case under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code). This is a voluntary code which Santander is a signatory of. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Santander says one of the exceptions in the CRM Code applies, in that it believes Mrs W 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of her payments was legitimate. 
Santander also considered that Mrs W hadnt told it the true purpose for the payments. 
Overall it concluded Mrs W wasnt liable for a refund under the CRM Code.
Mrs W was unhappy with Santanders response and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators considered it but said that Santander had acted fairly and 
reasonably.
She agreed that Mrs W had acted without a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments. She also considered that while Santander hadnt provided an effective warning in 
relation to the payments, as Mrs W provided a different reason as to the purpose of the 
payment, she didnt think any warning Santander may have provided would have had a 
material effect on preventing Mrs W from making the payments. So our Investigator agreed 
that Santander had fairly declined her claim under the CRM Code.
Mrs W didnt accept the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W but Im not upholding her complaint. I know shes been the
victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant impact on
her financially, mentally, and emotionally. But I dont believe Santander has acted unfairly or
unreasonably in its answering of the complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs W authorised the payments that are the subject of this
complaint, even though she did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations
2017, she would normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Santander is a signatory of.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mrs W. The circumstances where a firm may choose not
to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their
requisite level of care, as set out in the CRM Code.
One such circumstance  and the one particularly highlighted by Santander  might be when 
it can be demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable
basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points all of the circumstances of the case should be taken account of,
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Ive thought carefully about whether this exception to reimbursement applies in Mrs Ws
case. And so I must ask if she made the payments she did whilst having a reasonable basis
for belief that all was genuine. Im afraid I dont find thats the case.
Mrs W has provided copies of her conversations with the scammer posing as her ex 
colleague, and copies of the conversation with the scammer who worked for the social 
media promotion.
Having carefully reviewed everything, I find the messages should have given Mrs W cause 
for concern that something wasnt quite right. Mrs W hadnt proactively entered or joined 
anything, so to receive a message from an ex-work colleague  that she wasnt in constant 
contact with  saying she had won £80,000 and that Mrs W was also on the winners list 
does, to my mind, seem odd. Mrs W hadnt been contacted by the Social Media promotion 
itself, which would to be reasonably expected had she legitimately won something but had 
instead received the news from an ex-colleague.
Though I accept the fraudster was impersonating one of Mrs Ws ex work-colleagues and 
was someone who Mrs W says she trusted dearly, I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs W 
to be reassured by what the Social Media agent or the fraudster posing as her ex-colleague 
told her. Mrs W has explained that she believed her friend who had also won. But the 
likelihood of two friends / ex-colleagues both separately winning a significant amount of 
money in a random Social Media promotion where winners are randomly selected, 
seemingly without any requirement for them to have had any previous dealings with, or have 
entered or joined anything, seems implausible.
I also think it is unlikely that Mrs Ws ex-colleague, realistically, would have spotted Mrs Ws 
name on the winners list also. Im mindful that Mrs Ws ex-colleague had seemingly won and 
received the funds in cash and despite seeing Mrs Ws name supposedly on the winners list, 
failed to contact her for some time. The initial message Mrs W received asked how Mrs W 
was doing and that she was excited about the good news but didnt say what the news was 
and then didnt contact Mrs W for a further four days. 
Considering the circumstances, I think there was enough going on that I think it fair and 
reasonable that Mrs W ought to have undertaken some further checks ahead of making the 
payments to satisfy herself of the legitimacy of the situation.
I appreciate that Mrs W did attempt to make contact with her ex work colleague  but when 
Mrs W was given excuses as to why there couldnt be verbal contact, Mrs W ought to have 
been suspicious. Mrs W has said that this was a work colleague that was an amazing and 
special person who she had worked with previously for 10 years and was someone she 
trusted with her life. To my mind, given the historic relationship between Mrs W and her ex-
colleague, it is reasonable to suggest that Mrs W should have been able to, at some point, 
satisfy herself by verbally speaking with her ex-colleague before making any payment.
I also have to consider that Mrs W didnt really ask any questions at any point to verify that 
her winnings were as a result of something genuine. It seems Mrs W took on face value 
what she was told.With regards to the first payment Mrs W made, she was initially told to make the payment 
through a money service provider  as Mrs W didnt use online banking. Mrs W was given 
one set of payee details and when that failed, she was given a different set of payee details. 
When the second payment through the money service provider failed, Mrs W was then given 
a further different individuals name for a personal account with Mrs W making the payment 
in branch. I think this should have raised a concern as Mrs W was asked to pay and was 
provided with three different individual payee details. So not a specific company. Mrs W was 
also told that on each occasion she should say that she was purchasing something 
recommended by a church friend. I think its unlikely that a genuine organisation would 
request for payments to be made in such a way and I also think Mrs W ought to have 
reasonably questioned why it was necessary, if asked, to give a cover story for the payment 
 rather than to provide what she believed the real reason to be for the payment.
There were other warning signs in relation to the payments Mrs W made. Im persuaded 
Mrs W should fairly and reasonably have also had concerns that she was initially told by the 
fake Social Media agent, and which was something also confirmed by the scammer posing 
as her ex-colleague, that she only needed to pay £850 for her winnings and that was it. But 
then when additional amounts were added, her ex-colleague advised that she also had to 
pay additional amounts as well.
With regards to the second payment Mrs W made, for £3,000, she was told it was to pay for 
security guards and insurance. And with the third payment Mrs W was told that the van 
carrying her winnings was stopped by the IRS and that they required 10% tax of the 
winnings before it could be released. The situation and reasons for the payment requests 
should have reasonably given Mrs W pause for thought that things just didnt seem right.
With all of this in mind I dont find that Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payments were for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom she 
transacted was legitimate. 
Is there any other reason Santander ought to refund Mrs W?
Ive thought about whether Santander did enough to protect Mrs W from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where Firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should
provide effective warnings to their customers. Importantly, the CRM Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a Firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.
I am also mindful that when Mrs W made this payment, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Taking all of the above into consideration, Ive reviewed the payments Mrs W made. The first 
two payments made by Mrs W were not so remarkable that Santander ought to have 
believed there was a scam risk. The amounts sent each time werent particularly large or 
unusual, though I appreciate they represent a significant loss for Mrs W. I am also mindful 
the second payment was made to the same destination as the first. And nor were there other 
concerning features  in terms of the payments  to put Santander on notice. And so, I dont 
believe Santander needed to do more than it did, in terms of providing warnings about 
making payments. With regards to the third and largest payment Mrs W made, which was for £8,500, 
Santander did step in and intervene. And I think given the value of the payment that it was 
right to do so. However, I am mindful that despite Mrs W being told to say the payment was 
was for purchasing something recommended by a church friend, she deviated from this 
cover story and explained to Santanders fraud team that the payments were for building 
works. Given the reason for the payment purpose, Santander focused on making sure 
Mrs W wasnt at risk of financial harm from rogue trader scams and making sure she was 
paying the correct party. 
While I appreciate the warnings Santander provided had no association with the scam 
Mrs W fell victim to, I have to consider that Firms cant provide warnings about every 
possible scam type, and in this case I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander based 
on what it had been told to focus on rogue trader scams. I dont think it would have been 
alerted to the possibility that Mrs W was at risk of a different type of scam  and not the 
nuanced scam Mrs W had fallen victim to. In this case, I am also minded to say that I dont 
think any warnings would have had a material effect in preventing the scam that took place. 
Ill explain why.
Firms should be aware that consumers are often provided with cover stories, but here, 
Mrs W (whom was also known to the branch staff) had deviated from the cover story the 
scammer had told her to say. So had Santander probed further in relation to the payment, it 
is reasonable to conclude that Mrs W would have provided answers to satisfy any concerns 
Santander may have had. In short, Mrs W wanted to make the payments and came up with 
a plausible reason for the payments which provided Santander with enough reassurance 
that everything was ok. So, I cant reasonably say that Santander didnt meet the standards 
required of it under the CRM Code or that had it provided a different warning or probed 
further it would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
The final consideration I have to make is whether Santander did all it could to try and recover
the money Mrs W lost. Santander was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only 
ask the receiving bank to return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed 
to make enquiries quickly for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades
me Santander did act quickly. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move 
the money on as quickly as possible  and in this instance only £476.69 remained that could 
be recovered.
I note that Santander acknowledged that its level of service when Mrs W made her complaint 
fell below what it expects. Santander explained the complaints process wasnt explained to 
Mrs W and that she was also promised a call back which never occurred. Santander paid 
£100 in compensation for this, and that seems fair. I am glad to see that Santander 
recognised its failings when Mrs W raised her concerns about this and offered her 
appropriate compensation. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. 
Matthew HornerOmbudsman