DRN-4098902
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he acquired financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons Ive 
outlined below:
A used car was supplied to Mr G under a hire purchase agreement with BMW he 
signed in June 2022.
BMW, as supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality at the time of sale  whether it was satisfactory quality will depend on several 
factors, including age, mileage and the price that was paid for it. 
The car supplied to Mr G was four years old, had been driven for just over 30,000 
miles and had a price of £28,450. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means the components within the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that 
time is will also depend on several factors.
Within a few days of acquiring the car Mr G said he had issues with the remote car 
control set up and the start-stop ignition. He said he spoke to the dealership in early 
July which advised booking the car into a service centre. Ive seen a copy of an 
invoice from the service centre associated with the manufacturer dated 27 July 2022. 
It says:
Investigated loss of power, requires new VCT Solonoid 
Mr G said the service centre repaired the remote car control and the start-stop issue 
(related to the VCT Solonoid). It said it also repaired a third issue  referred to on the 
invoice as timing cover blanking replaced.
Im satisfied that within several weeks of Mr G acquiring the car faults became 
apparent that required repair. Given the very short time Mr G had the car Im 
persuaded the remote control fault and the start-stop fault were either present or 
developing at the point of sale. Its also possible the third fault relating to the timing 
cover was also present or developing at the point of sale. Im also satisfied Mr G 
brought the first two faults to the attention of the dealership quickly and that it 
recommended repair.
On 1 September Mr G reported an error message on the dashboard regarding the 
Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) level being low. He brought this to the attention of the 
dealership who again advised Mr G take the car to the service centre. Ive seen an 
invoice dated 26 September 2022. It says:
oConfirmed customer concern with dosing malfunction lamp illuminated. 
Scanned for DTCs. DTCs indicate vehicle has been run with too low level 
DEF level. Requires fluid drain and refill
In its evidence to this service BMW said there was no mention of the start-stop issue 
on the diagnostic report (September 2022), but there is mention in relation to the 
DEF. It said its the owners responsibility to top up the DEF.
Ive seen an email from the Head of Business at the manufacturers service centre. 
He said:
oWith reference to the vehicle concern please be advised after a discussion 
with the diagnostic technician I am able to confirm that the fault on your 
vehicle has been present for some time and is not an instant failure. The 
technical advice given to me with reference to your fault is this would have 
developed over some time possibly months resulting in where we are today.
In December 2022 and January 2023 the vehicle was seen again by the service 
centre. Ive seen a copy of the invoice dated 25 January which says:
oRequires DEF injector as its failed test. DEF injector refit kit. Clean DEF line 
from tank to injector.
In its response to our investigators view BMW said there are several factors at play 
regarding the DEF. It said it had spoken to the service centre and the DEF was 
drained and refiled with poor quality fluid. It said the DEF hadnt been adequately 
refilled. BMW went on to say 
oThe customer purchased the vehicle in June 2022 with 30,590 miles and as 
of May 2023 the customer has 34,530 miles. As with any filter it can become 
clogged from time to time and the DPF and indeed the DEF are designed to 
reduce emissions in diesel vehicles. As you can see from the mileage 
readings provided, the vehicle has covered less than 5,000 miles in nearly 12 
months therefore the likelihood is that the engine does not get to an optimum 
temperature as required. In this case, the exhaust gases may not have been 
hot enough to react properly with DEF. As per the above DEF is a serviceable 
requirement and should be monitored and maintained by the customer in line 
with manufacturer recommendations.
oBased on all of the information available including but not limited to the expert 
advice received from the inspecting garage, with the exception of the issue 
with the vehicle in July all other issues are related to the DEF.
While generally I would agree with BMW that maintaining DEF levels is a 
maintenance requirement it does appear that the fault identified in September 2022 regarding DEF levels is related to the DEF injector failure. Mr G had only had the 
vehicle for two months when the issue first presented itself. So I wouldnt consider 
this a service related problem that Mr G would be responsible for. There isnt an 
independent inspection, but as mentioned above the service centre Head of 
Business provided a statement before the second DEF failure confirming that the 
diagnostic technician believes the problem developed possibly over some months. 
And I consider this testimony to be reliable. So Im persuaded that the problem(s) 
concerning the DEF were likely either present or developing at the point of sale. 
BMW has had one attempt to repair the vehicle, with the start-stop and remote 
control issues. The Consumer Rights Act allows the business one opportunity to 
repair. Having had that opportunity the car has failed again so I now think it fair and 
reasonable that Mr G should be able to reject the car and be refunded for any repairs 
he has paid for.
Mr G has taken the car into the service centre a few times and been without use of it 
during repairs. BMW should refund one monthly payment to reflect this. 
Mr G has explained in some detail the problems with the car and how he has tried to 
get a resolution with BMW and that this situation has caused him some distress and 
inconvenience. As such I agree with the investigator that BMW should pay Mr G 
£150 in compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr G  
both at no cost to him; 
2. Refund the deposit paid by Mr G;
3. Refund to Mr G all the amounts he has paid for the repairs upon receipt of proof of 
payment;
4. Refund to Mr G one of his monthly payments to reflect the time he was without use of 
the car;
5. Pay 8% simple yearly interest on these refunded amounts in 2, 3 and 4 above, from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement;
6. Pay a further amount of £150 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused;
7. Ensure that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded on Mr Gs credit 
file. 
My final decision.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman