DRN-1854323
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his home insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) regarding a 
claim he made to it when a water leak occurred at his home.
What happened
In March 2018 a pipe in the loft of Mr Rs home froze and burst. Damage was done to most 
of the house. A claim was made to Esure and its restoration specialist visited the home on 
18 March 2018.
Mr R and his family spent a few nights in a hotel. But ideally they needed to fully move out of 
their property. Esure sought to arrange this but didnt find any properties that suited their 
needs so they continued to live in their damaged home. 
Mr R was keen to move the reinstatement work on as quickly as possible. But he also had 
concerns for the well being of his family. Esure installed some drying equipment at the 
property but Mr R was concerned about having more/too much when they were staying 
there. In April 2018 a report was completed regarding what strip-out work was necessary 
and Mr R started doing that work. He didnt think Esures contractors were progressing 
things quickly enough, they didnt seem very well organised and Mr R became concerned 
that work was being missed/not included. Esures file shows that, by mid-May the loss 
adjuster had decided the best way forwards was for the rest of the claim to be settled by way 
of a cash payment to allow Mr R to complete the work.
A surveyor was appointed to agree what work was required. He completed a scope of work 
and in June 2018 Esure offered Mr R £15,107.29 to settle the claim. Mr R noticed though 
that this price didnt include work in all the affected rooms, he was also concerned that, since 
the property had been dried, cracks had appeared all over the home. Esure eventually 
agreed to cover repair of the cracks as part of the claim, but only after many months of 
dispute, further requests from Mr R to include other work and further surveyor visits. 
Following the first offer of just over £15,000, Esure revised its scope of works no less than 
six times, making revised offers at each stage. The final offer was put to Mr R in late 
March 2018 and paid in early April. That was a total of £30,627.04. But in June 2018 Esure 
agreed another revision and paid Mr R a further £1,200. Making its total settlement 
£31,827.04.
Mr R remained unhappy. He said hed felt he had no choice but to take the cash settlement 
 but it wasnt enough to reinstate his home. He had an estimate totalling just over £70,000 
(which didnt include costs for replacement wardrobes or a kitchen, but did have costs for 
repairing the downstairs toilet which Esure didnt accept it was liable for) which hed shared 
with Esure. But Esure had told him it had costed the work and that was the basis for its 
settlement. It said the old wardrobes could be taken out and re-fitted and there was no call 
for the kitchen to be replaced. It didnt accept that cracking of the plaster in the downstairs 
toilet was related to the claim. It wasnt minded to pay Mr R anything more. 
Esure also told Mr R that it didnt think it had handled the claim badly. Mr R brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator felt Esure had acted unfairly in settling in cash at the cost to it to complete 
work. He also felt it had handled the claim badly, causing Mr R distress and inconvenience. 
He said Esures settlement should be £70,000 based on Mr Rs estimate (having discounted 
the toilet repair), plus £8,750 for replacement wardrobes. He said there was no evidence a 
new kitchen was required, so Esure didnt need to pay Mr R anything for that. He said £700 
compensation was fairly and reasonably due.
Mr R said there were some issues he disagreed with but he wanted to resolve matters. So 
he said he generally accepted the findings. However, he remained of the view that he was 
entitled to a replacement kitchen.
Esure disagreed with the findings. It said its policy allowed it to settle in cash at its cost. The 
costs it uses are set fairly and constantly monitored. Whereas it was unfair to rely on Mr Rs 
estimate which had been supplied by a for-profit builder. Esure said it also wasnt unusual 
for policyholders to seek inflated estimates in order to better the outcome of their claim. 
Esure felt it was unfair for our investigator to have decided the wardrobes likely couldnt have 
been refitted because its surveyor had said they could be. It didnt agree that any 
compensation should be paid to Mr R. Esure did though say it would pay any VAT due for 
the repair work to Mr R without insisting on seeing VAT receipts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties will forgive me for my relatively brief background set out above. Im aware that 
there have been many more disputes and concerns raised by Mr R than Ive included here. 
But for practical purposes my background has to be a summary and cant be exhaustive. 
That said I can assure both parties that I have read all their submissions and understand that 
this claim was not straight-forward. In my findings below I focus on what remains outstanding 
and is material to my findings. 
It is true that Esures policy does, like many insurers in the general market, allow it the 
choice of how to settle claims. And the policy says that where a claim is settled in cash 
Esure can settle based on the cost to it of completing the work. But Esure should know that 
this service has long held that if an insurer chooses to settle in cash, we will usually find it 
unfair if it does so based on its costs. Especially where the insurer has originally entered into 
a contract to repair the property (as Esure did here). In short the policyholder cant get work 
done for the same price the insurer could so the insurers liability under the policy isnt 
properly discharged. 
Ive seen no suggestion that the estimate Mr R obtained was over-priced. If Esure had opted 
to have the work costed based on general market rates, or had asked Mr R to obtain further 
estimates, then that might have shown this. But the fact Esures costs were much less does 
not mean Mr Rs were inflated. Whilst Esure feels an estimate from a for-profit builder is an 
unfair way of costing the work, it seems highly unlikely to me that Mr R would be able to find 
a contractor that doesnt work for profit. So I cant see how an estimate obtained from this 
type of contractor is, on the face of it, unfair. 
Ive compared Mr Rs estimate with the final scope of works Esure completed. They seem 
broadly similar (discounting the work in the downstairs toilet). I know things were missing 
from Esures scope initially but the final draft seems to largely mirror the work set out in Mr Rs estimate. Theres certainly nothing I can see in Mr Rs scope that Id think of as extra 
or unnecessary work, or betterment. I can see no good reason for any wholesale or 
significant reduction from that estimate to be made. As such I think Esure needs to make a 
further settlement payment to Mr R. In line with our normal processes, Esure will have to add 
interest to the outstanding amount from 2 April 2019 (the date the initial settlement was paid) 
until payment is made.
I know Esure says its surveyor felt the wardrobes could be refitted. But I see that that 
surveyor only considered settling for the wardrobes several months after his last visit to the 
property. When discussing settlement for the wardrobes with Esure, the surveyor 
commented that hopefully these could be re-fitted. Im not persuaded he was sure this was 
the case, or that his opinion was based on any specific inspection of the wardrobes having 
been undertaken. Therefore, Im not persuaded that because he only included the cost of 
removal and refitting in the scope of works, this could most likely have been done. 
Mr R says the wardrobes were fitted together with glued dowels. They werent installed in a 
way that could be easily disassembled. Esure didnt investigate this, it merely maintained its 
offer to cover the cost of removal and re-fitting. It could have arranged to inspect them but 
did not. Further, if Esure had not chosen to act unreasonably by extracting itself from the 
contract to repair Mr Rs home, it would have been in control of removing these items. As it 
was it left Mr R to reinstate his home. Im satisfied that Esure reasonably needs to pay for 
replacing the wardrobes on a like-for-like basis. 
Mr R did take the opportunity to change the wardrobes a little. His quote for the wardrobes 
includes some other units which Esure has already paid for within its initial settlement. But 
again its settlement was based on what it would cost it to reinstate those items. It would be 
unfair then, to simply make Esure pay Mr R the sum of the quote. Our investigator explained 
that he felt a figure of £8,750 for Esure to pay was fair. I agree  it reasonably nods to the 
fact that Mr R has sought to improve the wardrobes and allows for the fact Esure has 
already made payments that can be said to go towards the total sum. As with the other 
additional settlement sum Im requiring Esure to pay, interest* will have to be added.
Im not going to make Esure pay to replace Mr Rs kitchen. Esures initial report in 2018 did 
not record any damage having occurred to the kitchen. A later review noted the ceiling 
needed painting and this might entail some wall cabinets being taken down. But no damage 
to the units was found. Mr Rs quote is generally reflective of this. Ive seen no expert opinion 
which suggests the kitchen needs replacing due to the leak. Whilst I know some of Esures 
findings during the course of this claim have been flawed, Id have expected to see some 
indication  either from it or Mr Rs builder  if the kitchen had suffered significantly from the 
water leak and/or due to the drying process which followed. I know Mr R says Esure agreed 
to replace the kitchen  but Im not persuaded that he is accurately recalling what was said.  
I know it was inconvenient for Mr R and his family to stay in their home. Ideally a property for 
them to move to for a time would have bene found. But I can see that Mr R, not 
unreasonably in his situation, had some fairly specific requirements. And finding a home, 
reasonably like theirs, available for short-term let, in their local area was never going to be 
easy. It was always going to be something that required some compromise  on this 
occasion the compromise that seems to have best suited both parties was for Esure to pay 
Mr R whilst he and his family stayed living in their damaged home.   
Having seen everything that happened with this claim I dont doubt that Esure failed Mr R 
and he suffered distress and inconvenience as a result. Esure set out to repair his property, 
made mistakes and then, when Mr R became frustrated with it and asked questions, it tried 
to walk away. And in doing so pay him less than what it would cost him to repair his home. 
Esure has argued that some of its mistakes  the first scope being flawed for example  was because Mr R harassed it to complete work more quickly. But actually, in my view, Esure 
should always have been looking to prioritise and expedite Mr Rs claim. And a policyholder 
putting an insurer under pressure does not reasonably account for whole rooms being 
missed off the scope of repair. 
Mr R has had multiple, various and continuing issues with the scopes Esure completed. One 
issue that particularly struck me in reviewing Esures file, and seems to typify the issues 
Mr R has had to deal with throughout the claim, is regarding the measurement for the loft. 
This was the area in which the leak occurred and all the floor insulation needed replacing. 
Esure had allowed for replacing 15 square metres of insulation, but in March 2019, after 
Mr R had raised some concerns which Esure accepted, this allowance was increased to 
reflect the correct floor area of the loft being 105 square metres. 
Most claimants would be prepared to expect some miscalculations and amendments to initial 
scope to be necessary, indeed a natural part of a large loss claim. The errors Esure made 
here were, in my view, entirely unreasonable. The errors caused frustration for Mr R and he 
had to put in a lot of effort to get things corrected. I accept its been a slog for him and the 
claim has been much delayed as a result. Esure shouldnt have put him through that. Im 
satisfied that significant compensation is required. 
 
Putting things right
I require Esure to accept that fair settlement for the claim equates to it paying Mr R a total of 
£78,750. That being £70,000 for the general reinstatement work as evidenced by Mr Rs 
estimate and £8,750 for replacement wardrobes and units. If Mr R cashed the cheque Esure 
sent previously for £31,827.04, it can deduct this sum from the overall settlement value and 
pay just the difference outstanding. To the figure of £46,922.96 (the difference), Esure will 
have to apply interest* from 2 April 2019 until settlement is made. 
I also require Esure to pay Mr R £700 compensation. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr R, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to make further payments to Mr R 
as set out above (putting things right).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman