DRN-3394589
The complaint
Mr H complains as an Executor of the estate of Mrs H about Aviva Insurance Limiteds 
(Aviva) decision to decline a claim under the late Mrs Hs home emergency insurance. 
What happened
Mr H says a radiator at the late Mrs Hs home developed a leak so he contacted Aviva who 
stopped the leak but explained there was residual sludge present in the system so the whole 
system would need to be flushed before they could replace the radiator. Mr H says Aviva 
suspended the part of the policy which covered the boiler until this remedial work had been 
carried out. The remedial work was carried out, which included replacing the radiator, at a 
cost of £1,043.88. Mr H says, while arranging the remedial work, Aviva suspended the whole 
policy. The late Mrs H complained to Aviva for not meeting the claim. 
Aviva responded and explained theyd notified the late Mrs H of the remedial work that 
needed to be completed privately. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.   
Our investigator looked into things for the estate of Mrs H. He thought Aviva should cover 
the cost of replacing the radiator and recommended they pay £350. Aviva disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My starting point is the late Mrs Hs Gas Central Heating Breakdown Cover. The terms and 
conditions set out examples of claims covered and includes replacement of a leaking 
radiator. It goes further to discuss issues not covered and includes sludge/scale/rust within 
the system or damage caused by any other chemical composition of the water Aviva say, 
following a visit by an engineer, the radiator in question needed to be replaced. Aviva say 
this was the fourth radiator which had been claimed for under the policy so they felt there 
must be an underlying issue which was causing the issue with the radiators. Aviva say they 
believed that a possible cause for this was contaminated water in the system. 
Given the nature of the claims, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to investigate this 
further. Aviva obtained a sample of the system water which was sent for analysis. The 
system check report noted a Risk of failure from debris and recommended action to 
remedy this. Aviva felt the debris in the water was the probable cause of the issue with the 
radiators. Aviva say a procedure called powerflush is required and, as this is deemed to be 
remedial/maintenance work, this procedure isnt covered by the policy. 
The late Mrs H then arranged for an engineer to carry out the work. Ive seen the engineers 
report and this shows the issues identified and the action taken. The report says the 
electrode gasket set was in very poor condition and the condense sump was full of debris  
which was unlikely to be a few months worth. The report says the original system filter was 
poorly sited and impossible to clean properly The engineer resolved this by installing a 
new Twin Tech filter in the airing cupboard. I note the system check report recommends a 
powerflush, but I cant see this was carried out. The engineers report does refer to them 
adding a double dose of chemical to the system, but their report and invoice hasnt 
described this as a powerflush process or described it in a way which is consistent with the 
recommendation of remedial work set out in the system check report. 
So, I dont believe a powerflush was carried out. That said, its clear other work was carried 
out and was necessary to resolve the issues with the heating system. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for the late Mrs H to have been responsible for the costs associated with any 
remedial works as the policy doesnt specifically refer to this being covered. But, I dont 
believe its fair for Aviva to decline the claim for a replacement radiator. I say this for a 
number of reasons. Firstly, Aviva refer to the debris in the water as being the probable cause 
of the issue with the radiator. The engineers report does refer to the presence of debris but 
its clear from their report and invoice, this wasnt the only issue. And this, combined with the 
fact that a powerflush wasnt carried out, persuades me that debris in the water wasnt the 
most probable cause of the issue with the radiator. I accept it mightve been a contributory 
factor, but the remedial work carried out demonstrates it wasnt the only factor.     
The terms and conditions of the policy sets out the cover definition for the boiler and central 
heating system. This includes any fitted components for the boiler so I dont think its 
unreasonable to conclude this would include the system filter. The engineer instructed by the 
late Mrs H felt the issue was with the filter and their report and invoice shows this was 
replaced. While there does appear to be a difference in opinion between Aviva and the 
engineer in terms of what remedial work was required, Im persuaded by the latters opinion 
as they carried out the remedial work and I cant see there have since been any further 
similar problems with the radiators. 
Filters are generally responsible for extracting any debris from the water flowing through the 
pipes and help prevent problems to a heating system. In this case, the engineer clearly felt 
there was a problem with the filter which is why it was changed. I note Aviva say its a 
customers responsibility to maintain their property and keep their central heating system in 
good condition. But, the engineer says the filter was poorly sited, impossible to clean 
properly and half full  so I dont think its reasonable to hold the late Mrs H responsible for 
this. Ive seen no evidence that she was responsible for the filter being located where it was, 
and the engineers comments suggest it couldnt be cleaned properly. So, I cant say the late 
Mrs H took any steps which would suggest she didnt maintain her property or didnt keep 
her central heating system in good condition.          
In addition to this, system notes provided by Aviva show a phone note where Mr H queries 
what work is required and the call handler explains Mr H can show the system check report 
to their engineer who will then know what remedial work to carry out. 
The note says Explained to call back once work is done so we can arrange the replacement 
of the leaking [radiator]. I understand therefore why Mr H believes a replacement radiator 
should be covered under the policy. 
Taking this all into account, I think Aviva have acted unfairly in declining the claim for a 
replacement radiator. The engineers invoice shows the radiator was replaced and theyve 
confirmed the cost of this, and the fitting, amounts to £350. I understand the late Mrs H 
arranged the remedial work and replacement radiator all together and didnt just arrange the 
remedial work and then consult with Aviva about a replacement radiator. But, the late Mrs H has explained why the need to have a working radiator was very important for her. And, 
Aviva had already inspected the radiator and noted it needed replacing. So, I dont believe 
Avivas position has been prejudiced in any way by the late Mrs H arranging for the radiator 
to be replaced by her own engineer. So, Aviva should reimburse the £350 paid for this. 
I note Mr H is concerned about the policy being suspended. The terms and conditions do 
allow Aviva to suspend a policy but that appears to be in circumstances where a customer 
misses a premium payment  but that hasnt happened here. So, its unclear why Mr H 
believes the policy was suspended but I havent seen any evidence this was the case. In any 
event, I cant see this has been raised with Aviva so, if Mr H does have evidence the policy 
was suspended and premium payments were taken during this time, then he can raise this 
separately with Aviva. 
Putting things right
Ive decided Aviva have unfairly declined the claim for the replacement radiator. So, I think 
its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Aviva to reimburse the £350 the late Mrs H 
paid for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must pay £350 to 
the estate of Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman