DRN-4364040
The complaint
Miss A complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), handled a 
claim under her home insurance policy for damage to her property caused by an escape of 
water. 
Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In September 2021 there was an escape of water at Miss As property, causing damage to a 
bathroom and kitchen. Miss A contacted her home emergency provider, who arranged for a 
contractor to attend to locate and fix the source of the leak. This was found to be a blockage 
in an outdoor waste pipe. 
Miss A also contacted Admiral, as her home insurance provider. Admiral asked Miss A to 
provide a detailed report setting out what damage had already been repaired as well as a 
quote for the further repair work needed. In October 2021 Miss A provided a contractor 
quote covering the buildings work (£3,462.85); replacement of contents (£350); and 
scaffolding to allow for repair of the waste pipe (£420). Miss A also said the bathroom wet 
wall might be damaged on removal and need to be replaced. Admiral said shed have to 
submit additional evidence should the wall be damaged.
After some discussion, Admiral accepted the claim and made an initial cash settlement of 
the claim in November 2021 for £4,969.05 (less the policy excess of £800). This was for the 
bathroom and kitchen and included the strip out and replacement of the damaged bathroom 
suite (£1,604.84). 
However, there were delays due to Covid 19 because Miss A had struggled to source a 
contractor contractors werent available or didnt provide written estimates. Admiral said they 
could arrange for the repair work to be carried out if Miss A repaid the cash settlement 
Admiral had previously paid. After further discussion, Miss A sent Admiral a quote from a 
contractor for replacing the wet wall (£2,460). Admiral said theyd need photographs of the 
damaged areas and the whole bathroom before they could authorise the work.
The date for starting the repair work was delayed several times until March 2023, when the 
work began. At that point, Miss A contacted Admiral to say areas of the bathroom had been 
damaged during the repairs, including the wet walls; ceiling; floor tiles; section of wall; 
shower; radiator; light fittings and fan. Admiral said theyd need a report from the contractor 
saying how the damage occurred and an invoice for the expected cost of the work. Admiral 
said if the damage was due to negligence by the contractor this wouldnt be covered, and 
Miss A would need to take this up directly with the contractor.
Miss A provided a quote for the cost of the work. Admiral compared the quote with their own 
scope of works. Based on this comparison, they agreed some elements but not others. 
Specifically:
The cost for work to the ceiling was £408 in the quote  but Admiral thought the cost 
should be £166.96. 
The quote advised the radiator was rusty. They considered this meant the radiator 
was subject to wear and tear  so they wouldnt cover the cost.
Lights and fan were included in the quote at £600  but reviewing photographs of the 
bathroom, Admiral said the lights were working. So they wouldnt cover the cost. 
Floor tiles were included in the quote at £630  but photographs showed a crack in 
the tiles with the bathroom suite still in place. If the contractor dropped something to 
cause the crack, they would be liable for the cost of rectifying the damage. So, the 
cost wouldnt be covered. 
On the shower, Admiral said they were advised it was damaged on removal due to its 
age. But without a report to this effect and a supporting invoice, this wouldnt be 
covered. But they would cover the shower screen (£144.59).
Admiral accepted the quote for the wet wall (£2,244); ceiling (£408); flooring (£756); 
dry cleaning cost (£90);and wall repairs (£504).
The total accepted came to £4,194. But with a view to reaching a settlement, an uplift was 
added, taking the settlement offered to £4,500. When making the settlement offer, Admiral 
said they thought the contractor had overcharged for aspects of the work theyd carried out. 
So theyd calculated the settlement figure on what they thought reasonable to complete the 
works, considering the evidence - Miss A provided photographs and other evidence she said 
supported the invoice total. Admiral said they wouldnt increase their settlement offer.
Miss A was unhappy at the settlement figure made by Admiral, so she complained. She said 
she wasnt knowledgeable on the work required and its cost, shed just provided the estimate 
from the contractor.
  
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said their investigation of the 
complaint led them to conclude they hadnt made any errors in the service theyd provided. 
They also referred to what theyd previously told Miss A about those elements of the quote 
they would accept, as well as those they wouldnt.
Miss A then complained to this service. She said the invoice from the contractor for the work 
carried out was £8,784 and Admiral had made two settlements for the cost of the work (the 
initial £1,604.84 and then a further £4,500). As the cost hadnt been fully settled, it meant 
she was out of pocket by £2,679.16. She wanted Admiral to fully settle the claim at the total 
value of the invoice.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Admiral didnt need to take any 
action. As Miss A had accepted the initial cash settlement in November 2021, the 
investigator focused on Miss As claim (based on her contractors quote) in March 2023. The 
investigator concluded Admiral had fairly assessed the claim based on the available 
evidence. As a significant proportion of the repair work was carried out prior to Miss A 
making her claim and submitting the quote (invoice) Admiral hadnt been able to assess the 
damage before the work was carried out. The investigator thought it reasonable for Admiral 
to decline to cover the costs for the radiator, lights, fan, shower and taps. While noting Miss 
As point she shouldnt be expected to consider whether the contractors quotes were 
reasonable, the investigator thought it would be for Admiral to make the decision, based on 
what they considered to be reasonable. 
The investigator also considered Miss As point that shed struggled to source a contractor 
due to Covid 19 and it would have been difficult to obtain a comparative quote from another 
contractor. At the time of the leak, September 2021, national lockdowns had ended. While 
there were residual issues, it should have been possible to obtain a second quote (at least 
for comparison purposes).Miss A disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She made several points. Firstly, the difficulty obtaining other quotes due to the 
knock-on impact of Covid 19, which meant she could only present one quote. Secondly, she 
provided a report from her contractor explaining the need for additional work and the costs of 
several items, Thirdly, as she had accidental damage cover under her policy, this could have 
covered some of the items that may have been damaged by the contractor (who didnt 
accept any liability for the damage). Miss A also provided photographs of damaged items 
that she said supported her view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly towards Miss A. 
Looking at the circumstances of the case, the key issue is Admiral declining to cover all the 
invoiced (quote) cost for several items in the repair work. Miss A says its not for her to 
determine what is reasonable, she has simply provided a quote from the contractor she was 
able to secure. Admiral say they wont cover certain items, either because the cost isnt 
reasonable, or the policy wouldnt cover certain items  particularly where they indicated 
wear and tear. 
Other issues for me to consider include the inability of Miss A to obtain quotes from other 
contractors, which could have been a  result of the impact of the Covid 19 Pandemic. Miss A 
also makes the point she feels some of the items Admiral declined to cover could be 
considered under the accidental cover section of the policy.
Before coming to the main issue of the items Admiral declined to cover, Ive first considered 
the issue of Miss A being unable to secure more than one contractor quote. Shes told us 
how difficult it was for her to obtain quotes, and I dont doubt what shes told us. While the 
leak occurred after the national lockdowns in response to Covid 19, its likely the backlog of 
work following the easing of Covid 19 restrictions will have led to supply issues in the 
building sector, including the capacity of contractors to deal with the backlog of work as well 
as supply (and cost) issues for key materials. 
Miss A said she contacted several other contractors, but they didnt provide written quotes. 
Shes also said those that provided verbal quotes were higher than the quote she was able 
to obtain. That being the case, its unlikely that if those verbal quotes had been provided in 
writing, Admiral would have been any more accepting of the cost. 
And while there was an impact from the after effects of the Covid 19 Pandemic, including 
delays in starting the repair work, I dont think this would have had a bearing on the main 
issue in Miss As complaint  the cost (and eligibility for cover) of several items of the work. 
And I cant hold Admiral responsible for the wider impacts and issues related to Covid 19, as 
they werent within their control. Ive also noted Admiral did offer to appoint their own 
contractors to carry out the work, although even were this option taken up, from what Miss A 
has told us, there would have been a delay in the appointed contractor carrying out the work 
(Ive seen mention of a three-month delay). Taking all these points together, I dont think 
theres anything that Admiral can fairly be held responsible for, or that theyve acted unfairly 
or unreasonably.
Miss A also says it isnt reasonable for her to assess whether the contractors quote was 
reasonable. I agree, but its Admirals responsibility to assess the reasonableness of any contractor quote (even where theres only one) by comparison which what it would expect 
given the scope of work and what theyd expect the work to cost based on their knowledge 
and experience of the costs or repair work across the claims they assess. So, in challenging 
the cost of some items of work (and whether items should properly be covered under the 
terms of the policy) I think theyve acted reasonably and as I would expect from an insurer 
when assessing a claim.
Coming back to the main issue in Miss As complaint, Ive concentrated on those items 
where Admiral thought costs were overstated or which wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
And as the initial cash settlement was accepted by Miss A, Ive only considered the claim 
(quote) made in March 2023 for further repair work. While I havent covered every individual 
item or issue, Ive considered all the information and evidence provided, both by Miss A and 
by Admiral. So, Ive focused on the key items where Miss A disagrees with Admiral.
The first issue concerns the radiator. Admiral say the quote (and the photographs) indicate 
the radiator was rusty They consider this means the radiator was subject to wear and tear  
so they wouldnt cover the cost. Miss A hasnt provided any evidence the radiator was 
damaged in the leak and from what Ive seen the radiator was rusty. That being the case, I 
think it reasonable for Admiral to say the radiator was suffering from wear and tear, which is 
an exclusion form cover under the policy.
Second theres the cost of work to the ceiling. This was £408 in the quote, but Admiral 
thought the cost should be £166.96. However, Ive noted Admirals settlement included £408 
for the work, despite their view it should have been less (based on the area of the ceiling). 
As the full cost was included in the settlement, Ive not considered this issue any further.
Third, theres the lights and fan, included in the quote at £600. Admiral say review of the 
photographs indicate the lights were working, so they wouldnt cover the cost. Miss A says 
the photographs were taken on the first day of the work, at which stage the ceiling wasnt 
damaged, but that other lights werent working (although this isnt clear from the 
photographs). And her contractor couldnt provide any supporting evidence. That being the 
case I dont think it unreasonable for Admiral to have declined this element.
On the fan, Ive seen an email from the contractor which states the existing fan was working, 
but due to its age fell apart on removal and needed replacement. While this indicates the fan 
wasnt damaged in the leak, it indicates the fan was subject to wear and tear (its age) and 
so, as wear and tear is an exclusion under the policy then I dont think it unreasonable for 
Admiral to decline to cover the cost of a replacement.
Fourth, on the shower, Admiral say they were advised it was damaged on removal due to its 
age. The email from the contractor again confirms the shower was working before its 
removal, but it fell apart on removal due to its age. Again, as theres no evidence to the 
contrary, this indicates wear and tear and so would be excluded from cover. So, Admiral 
acted reasonably in declining to cover the cost. But they would cover the shower screen 
(£144.59) as (per the contractor email) once removed it was buckled and bent and couldnt 
be re-used. Looking at the sum offered, I think its reasonable..
Fifth, floor tiles were included in the quote at £630  but photographs showed a crack in the 
tiles with the bathroom suite still in place. Admiral say if the contractor dropped something to 
cause the crack, they would be liable for the cost of rectifying the damage. So, the cost 
wouldnt be covered. While Miss A hasnt specifically challenged this item, looking at the 
evidence concerned, I think Admirals position is reasonable.
Finally, on the taps, Miss A hasnt been able to provide evidence of their damage from the 
leak, and the contractor hasnt mentioned taps in their email. Without evidence to support 
the cause of damage, I cant reasonably ask Admiral to cover the cost of replacing them.Miss As third main point is that some of the items could be considered under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. So, Ive looked at the policy definition of accidental damage. It 
states accidental damage is:. 
Sudden, unexpected and visible loss, or damage which has not been caused wilfully 
or deliberately.
However, given that in some cases the damage is likely to have been due to wear and tear 
(and the age) of the items, this wouldnt be considered accidental damage. And Ive not seen 
any clear evidence that any other damage could reasonably be considered accidental under 
the above definition.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman