DRN-2924848
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has refunded only half of £600 he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
Mr I followed someone on a social media platform after they were presented to him as a 
suggested connection. This person claimed to be the CEO of an investment company and 
they offered clients the chance to make significant returns on trades. Mr I didnt know it at 
the time but this was actually the profile of a scammer.
Mr I was interested in investing some money as he was uncertain if hed keep his job and 
wanted to make some money for the future. And so he contacted the scammer about the 
investment opportunity.
He was told that he could turn a £600 investment into £3,000 within an hour. And the 
scammer also told Mr I that there was a no loss guarantee as he was a first-time customer. 
Mr I wasnt given any details about the investment company that the scammer was 
supposedly the CEO of. But he could see testimonials on the scammers profile which 
appeared to verify the success of other investors. 
Mr I decided to go ahead with the investment and was given details of where to send the 
payment. He noticed that the payee name was for a person, rather than the name of a 
company, and that the name didnt match the profile of the scammer. Mr I questioned why 
this was the case and was told that an individual within the company would be handling the 
payment.
When Mr I went to make the payment, he entered the details hed been given. The banks 
systems recognised that the payee name didnt match that of the recipient account owner. 
Mr I questioned this again and was told once more that it was an individual within the 
investment company. He decided to proceed with the payment.
Shortly after, the scammer contacted Mr I again to say that his investment had been 
successful, and hed actually made £15,000. But in order to release it hed need to pay a fee 
of £5,000. Mr I didnt have the money and became suspicious. The scammer blocked him 
and he realised hed been the victim of a scam. He reported it to HSBC on the same day.
HSBC attempted to recover the money from the receiving bank but only £9 remained. There 
was a delay in getting this money back to Mr I, but HSBC did eventually refund it to him.
HSBC considered its obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. The Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. HSBC says one of the exceptions in the Code applies, in that it 
believes Mr I didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of his payments was 
legitimate. And so it said Mr I ought to bear some responsibility for his loss.
HSBC did recognise it could have done more to protect Mr I from the scam by providing 
effective warnings at the point he was making the payment. And so it agreed to refund him 
half of his loss.
Mr I was unhappy with the banks answer and so brought the case to us. One of our 
investigators considered all that had happened and felt the bank had fairly answered Mr Is 
complaint. She found its position on Mr Is basis for belief was fair and reasonable and so 
thought it had done enough in refunding half of his loss.
Mr I disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr I authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint, 
even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly speaking, under 
the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 2017, he would 
normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular 
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which 
HSBC has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr I. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to 
reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One such circumstance is where the bank can be demonstrate that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Ive thought carefully about the scam Mr I fell victim to and Im in agreement with the 
investigator  and for broadly the same reasons  that HSBC has fairly held Mr I responsible 
for half of his loss. I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for a 
legitimate investment or that he was engaged with legitimate parties. There were warning 
signs that all was not as it seemed. This ought to have led Mr I to question the proposition 
and to carry out checks into its legitimacy. Had he done so I believe the scam would have 
been avoided. Ill explain why in more detail.
I find the initial offering itself, of turning £600 into £3000 within an hour, is improbable to the 
point of being too good to be true. Mr I has referred to leveraged trading which can deliver 
high returns for investors. And whilst that might be true, delivering a 500% return within an 
hour does not seem likely. And Ive not seen evidence to suggest that Mr I was provided with 
persuasive explanation of how this might be achieved. But this isnt the only factor.
Mr I was also offered a no loss guarantee. Mr I has said he had some knowledge and 
experience of investing. But even if he didnt I believe this ought to have caused him to 
question what was being offered. It seems an unrealistic feature of any investment 
opportunity.Theres then the channels through which the alleged investment was found, and the deal 
made. Everything took place on social media and messaging apps. That seems an unusual 
set up for a legitimate trading company. Mr I has said there was no website and very little 
information about the people involved. Mr I said that he didnt really even have a name for 
who he was speaking with on social media, as it was just their username he was given. 
In turn, Mr I didnt check the company online through Companies House or the FCA website. 
he wasnt actually ever given a company name to check, and hes said he didnt ask for one. 
And so it seems there was nothing done to check the legitimacy of the scammer or the 
company they claimed to be the CEO of. 
Mr I did question the payee name when he was given account details. But he was given 
what I believe is an unconvincing explanation in that the payment was to go to a company 
employee. I think its fair and reasonable to say that there ought to have been some 
concerns the payment wasnt being made to an actual investment company, instead going to 
an individual.
And then, when the details were entered into Mr Is online banking, the bank confirmed that 
the name still didnt match. Which ought to have caused further concern with the scammers 
explanation.  
I know Mr I has said there were testimonials on the scammers profile page and he found 
these persuasive. Ive not seen the posts as Mr I unfortunately no longer has the 
screenshots he took. But it seems there would be little way to check the legitimacy of those 
posts or that people had actually made money through the scammers services. And I dont 
find that such posts would be enough to counter all of the other concerns that ought to have 
arisen over the course of the scam, and the general lack of investigation into the legitimacy 
of the scammer, the company they said they worked for or the proposed investment.
I wont comment on the warnings the bank provided at the time Mr I made the payment. Its 
already agreed to refund half of his loss on the basis that it could have done more. I believe 
that refund represents a fair and reasonable settlement of Mr Is complaint. 
I appreciate Mr I feels the bank hasnt done enough and that his loss is not a significant 
amount to it. But Im satisfied HSBC has fairly applied the CRM Code in respect of his 
complaint. I am sorry that Mr I has been the victim of a cruel scam and Ive no doubt that the 
£300 is a significant sum to him. But I cant fairly ask the bank to compensate him on the 
basis of his loss being for a relatively small amount to the bank.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman