DRN-2145678
The complaint
Mrs L complains HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions made on her 
credit card.
HSBC say the transactions are authorised.
What happened
In December 2017 Mrs L complained about a large number of transactions made on her 
credit card.  The payments were made to an online gaming platform (M) which her son 
would regularly use.  Mrs L says she had registered her card on the account for her son to 
use with her permission  but transactions made between June 2017 and December 2017 
were not made by her son.  She said the account had been hacked and asked HSBC to 
refund the money.
HSBC did not uphold her complaint.  In said it was unable to treat the transactions as 
fraudulent as they related to her sons account.  It suggested she contact M directly and 
raise the matter with them.
So, Mrs L came to our service and asked that we look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask HSBC to do anymore so Mrs L made further 
submissions and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, I agree with the investigators view here and there is very little I think I 
can helpfully add.  She has explained her view in some detail  which Mrs L acknowledges.  
My decision, in comparison will not be as detailed but if I fail to mention something, its not 
because I have not taken it into account.  I have carefully considered all of Mrs Ls 
submissions.
Its accepted by Mrs L that she entered her card details for her son to use them to make 
purchases.  But she says he would always tell her and seek her permission before making 
any purchases.  She says he would not have made these ones because the content of some 
of the items purchased were for a lower age group than he is, they were away on holiday for 
a short period of time during the transactions and some of the purchases were for a games 
console which he did not use.
Crucially, though, she says the account was hacked by fraudsters.
My starting point is to remind myself that it is for HSBC to show that Mrs L authorised these 
payments  and not for Mrs L to show that she didnt.  Its then for me to decide whether it 
did anything wrong in how it responded to Mrs Ls complaint.
Based on the evidence I have seen, I have seen nothing to suggest HSBC was unfair or 
unreasonable in how it dealt with Mrs Ls complaint.
Our investigator has explained the concept of apparent authority to Mrs L.  The Payment 
Services Regulations 2017  which are the rules relevant here  allow for payments to be 
made, in some circumstances, by someone other than Mrs L by virtue of actual authority or 
apparent authority.
So, in this instance, the person most likely making the transactions is Mrs Ls son because I 
have seen nothing to suggest that the account was indeed hacked.  Mrs L submits an email 
she says was received from M confirming the account had been hacked. Its a line in an 
email purporting to be from M which refers to another email.  I have placed little weight on 
this evidence.
And I dont think the nature of the purchases carries much weight in these circumstances.  
Neither do I think that Mrs L and her family being away from home is relevant here as 
purchases can still be made away from the home.
I think by adding her card details to his account, Mrs L can be said to have given her son 
apparent authority to make these transactions because by allowing him to use it, she has 
effectively permitted him to undertake the procedure for giving consent.  And consent is an 
essential element of authorisation.
So, in order to be held liable for these transactions, Mrs L doesnt have to have asked her 
son to make them or even know that he is making them.
That said, apparent authority is not something which can be regarded as continuing 
indefinitely.  So, if Mrs L had registered her card on the account but had then told her son he 
was not to use it for purchases without her permission, that wouldnt be enough to remove 
the apparent authority she has already given him.  She would needed to have cancelled the 
card on the account and replaced it with a new one.  She didnt do this.
In the circumstances, based on the available evidence, I cannot say HSBC was unfair or 
unreasonable in concluding it was holding Mrs L liable for these transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman