DRN-2397637
The complaint
Mrs D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out at a meeting in 1998 to protect Mrs Ds
loan repayments. The loan included an amount to pay for the cover upfront. The policy gave 
her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs D, so it had to check it was suitable for her. And it 
also had to give her enough clear information so she could make an informed decision 
whether or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this and I think this mattered to Mrs D.
I say this because Mrs D had a pre-existing medical condition which likely would not have 
been covered by the policy. Shes told us it was a condition diagnosed in childhood and it 
was largely controlled by medication. But she has also said that on occasion she needed to 
be hospitalised because of it, so it seems her condition was severe at times. 
As well as sickness cover after 14 days off work, this policy offered a hospitalisation 
protection benefit after 24 hours. But Mrs D most likely wouldnt have been able to claim 
either of these benefits as her condition was pre-existing, and she was having ongoing 
treatment in the form of medication in the 12 months prior to the sale. So it was likely that 
Mrs D would not have been able to claim on the policy when she needed to, and when she 
expected to be able to. And I cant see Barclays considered this when it made its 
recommendation, or that it made this clear to Mrs D.
Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators view but said it had no further information to 
provide or comments to make. It supplied contradictory information in its submission saying 
in the business response form that Mrs D told it she had no pre-existing medical conditions, 
but the call transcript it supplied from March 2020 shows Mrs D gave the bank high-level 
information on her medical history that is consistent with what she told us via her 
representative in September 2020, albeit she provided us with more detail. I have therefore 
relied on her testimony to reach my decision.
Overall, I think its most likely Mrs D wouldnt have taken out the PPI if shed been better 
advised and informed. It follows I think Mrs D has lost out because of the problems with this 
sale.  
Putting things right
 Mrs D borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been, and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So, Mrs D needs to get back the extra shes 
paid.
So, Barclays should:
Work out and pay Mrs D the difference between what she paid each month
on the loan and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs D paid each month from when
she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman