The complaint
Mr G has complained that Scottish Widows Limited made mistakes when communicating the 
maturity value of his endowment plan to him.
What happened
Mr G had a with-profits endowment plan with Scottish Widows that was due to mature in July 
2018.
In the months leading up to maturity Mr G was in contact with Scottish Widows about the 
surrender value and the maturity value. In April 2019 Mr G complained that he was told the 
wrong values for each  Scottish Widows agreed it had made a mistake and paid him £250. 
Mr G accepted this.
In June and July 2019 Mr G had further discussions about the maturity value. He was told 
more than once that the maturity value would be £26,973. However, when the plan matured 
on 18 July 2019, Mr G was paid £26,444.12.
Mr G complained as this wasnt the amount he was told he would receive. Scottish Widows 
agreed it had made a mistake telling him he would receive £26,973. It confirmed hed been 
paid the correct amount of £26,444.12  the reduction was due to a change in the terminal 
bonus rate. Scottish Widows paid Mr G £300 for any distress and inconvenience this caused 
him.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service, saying he had health conditions and the problems 
hed encountered with Scottish Widows had caused him significant distress. He wanted the 
difference between the two values paid to him in addition to the compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied the correct maturity value had 
been paid and thought the compensation offered was reasonable. As Mr G didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr G, so Ill 
explain why.
Mr G was initially told the wrong surrender and maturity values. Scottish Widows accepted it 
had made a mistake and offered Mr G £250, which he accepted. Overall, I think the amount 
paid was reasonable as while it was frustrating for Mr G, it didnt have any other impact. And 
DRN-1283528as Mr G accepted this at the time, I dont think Scottish Widows needs to pay any extra 
compensation for this error.
It isnt in dispute that Scottish Widows made another mistake on 18 July 2019 when it 
informed Mr G the maturity value of the plan was £26,973. By this time, the terminal bonus 
rate had been changed, so it shouldve told him hed actually receive £26,444.12. So, I can 
understand why Mr G was disappointed when he received the lower amount.
Where a business has done something wrong, we seek to put the customer back into the 
position they wouldve been in had the mistake not been made. Mr G ought to have been 
told the correct maturity value, which was £26,444.12. Had this happened, he wouldnt have 
been disappointed to receive the lower sum. So, the fair way to put things right is to 
compensate him for his disappointment. That doesnt mean he should receive the difference 
between the maturity values as he would never have been entitled to receive the higher sum 
had the right information been given to him. 
So the issue for me to decide is whether the amount Scottish Widows paid him for the 
impact of the mistake is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G has told us that he has health conditions and that being given the wrong information 
about this exacerbated them. Im sorry to hear about Mr Gs health problems and I dont 
doubt this added to his concern. But I think the £300 compensation paid by Scottish Widows 
fairly reflects the impact on him. I say this because although he was told the wrong figure, 
the difference was only around £500 and the mistake was corrected relatively quickly. Mr G 
hasnt told us that he made any plans for the money based on the incorrect figure he was 
given, so I dont think it had any other impact.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has paid Mr G a total of £550 for the mistakes it made when 
communicating the surrender and maturity value of his endowment plan to him. 
I conclude that this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So, I make no other 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman