DRN-1534474
 
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to stop him spending, after he 
received a large sum of money into his account. He also says Lloyds incorrectly told him he 
wasnt liable for some outstanding debts.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr J received a large credit into his Lloyds current account. He 
immediately started making multiple transactions using his debit card and making transfers 
to third parties. Lloyds placed a temporary freeze on Mr Js account, as a precaution in case 
it had been compromised. 
Mr J visited a Lloyds branch to ask why he couldnt use his account. A member of staff 
telephoned through to the relevant department and Mr J explained where the funds had 
come from and that the transactions were genuine. Lloyds removed the block allowing him to 
continue to use his account.
Some months later, Mr J received a credit into his account from an individual to whom hed 
sold something. The individual disputed the payment through their own bank, saying theyd 
not received the item theyd bought. 
Lloyds asked Mr J to visit a branch to provide evidence of the transaction, such as proof hed 
posted the item. Mr J met with a member of staff who telephoned the relevant department, 
but he was unable to provide any evidence and admitted to Lloyds that hed not sent the 
item to the buyer. During the same conversation, Mr J told Lloyds hed also failed to send 
items after receiving payment on previous occasions, when at the time, Lloyds had given 
him the benefit of doubt. Based on what hed told them, Lloyds made a decision to close his 
account.
When he was told his account would be closed, Mr J said the member of branch staff told 
him he didnt owe Lloyds any money. However, a number of days later, a debit card 
transaction left his account, taking it overdrawn. During the same conversation, Mr J said he 
was also told Lloyds would sort out the money hed taken from the people to whom hed 
failed to send items. But he later found out this wasnt the case and the individuals continued 
to chase him for refunds directly.
Mr J complained to Lloyds that hed been misled. He said the member of staff should have 
known the payment would be debiting his account. He said when he found out he owed 
money both to Lloyds and the other third-party individuals, it put him in a difficult position as 
he couldnt afford to pay the money back. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. They said he was liable for the overdrawn balance 
owed to them as hed authorised the debit card transaction which put his account in that 
position. They said when Mr J was in the branch, the payment wasnt visible to the staff he 
dealt with, explaining it wasnt showing as pending due to the block placed on his account. 
But as hed authorised the payment prior to his account being frozen, the payment was 
correctly applied to his account manually at a later date.
Regarding the money Mr J owed to third parties, Lloyds gave him £50 in acknowledgement 
that perhaps he couldve been given clearer information. But they believed hed 
misinterpreted that the bank would repay debt he owed to the third parties and said that the 
matter was between himself and those individuals. 
Mr J accepted the gesture of goodwill but was still unhappy, so he brought his complaint to 
our service. He said hed left the branch that day having been told by the member of staff 
that he didnt owe Lloyds any money. And that when he asked what he should do about the 
individuals he owed money to, he was told Lloyds would sort it, so took that to mean he 
wouldnt have to pay them back.
Mr J also told us he thought Lloyds should have done more to stop him spending the credit 
he received in December 2018. He said the changes in his spending pattern, including the 
nature of transactions he was making, meant they should have realised he was vulnerable 
and done more to protect him. Mr J said when hed visited the branch to verify it was him 
making the transactions, he spoke to them in an open space and had they taken him 
somewhere more private, it potentially would have led him to explain the difficulties he was 
going through.
One of our investigators looked into things. Whilst she acknowledged there was a sudden 
increase in the volume of transactions Mr J was making, she didnt think Lloyds had acted 
unfairly when dealing with his account. She said after Mr J had verified it was him spending 
the funds she didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have been satisfied it was 
anything other than it being Mr J spending the funds rightly available to him. Our investigator 
said shed seen no evidence to say Mr J had made Lloyds aware of his vulnerabilities until 
after the money was spent. And when he did make them aware, she thought theyd taken his 
circumstances into consideration before making the decision to close his account.
Our investigator thought it was possible the response he received when he asked what 
would happen to the money he owed to the individuals hed not sent items to, may have 
been vague or misleading. But as she wasnt party to the conversation between Mr J and the 
member of branch staff, she had to consider the likelihood that Lloyds would have said 
theyd repay debts he owed to third parties. Having done so, she found no reason to think 
this might have been the case. She said Lloyds had also acknowledged the information he 
was given might not have been clear, but felt their offer of £50 was a fair and reasonable 
acknowledgement of this concern. So she wouldnt be asking them to do anything further.
As Mr J disagreed with our investigators opinion and asked for a final decision, its been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Mr J will be disappointed, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Its clear to me Mr J has been through a difficult time. Hes provided us with a detailed 
testimony of his circumstances, both before and at the time of the events that have given 
him cause to complain. Mr Js vulnerabilities are not whats in dispute, so Ive not referred to 
them in detail when explaining my decision. My decision will cover what I consider to be the 
key issues of Mr Js complaint. But its important for me to reassure Mr J Ive taken 
everything hes said into consideration when reaching it. I can see from Mr Js statements he started spending the money he received in December 
2018 at a considerable rate. But ultimately, the money belonged to him. And if Mr J chose to 
spend his money and then authorise that spending, I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to stop 
him from doing so unless it knew something was wrong.
Mr J has said he believes he would have brought his vulnerabilities to Lloyds attention at 
some point prior to him receiving the funds, as hed held an account with them for many 
years. But he couldnt be certain of that and said to our investigator that hes not sure if he 
did. Ive looked at the contact notes held by the bank and Ive not seen anything to suggest 
they were made aware until some nine months after the funds were spent. 
When Mr Js pattern of spending changed, Lloyds did place a block on his account to 
safeguard the money, until they could be sure his account had not been compromised. 
When they did this, Mr J visited a Lloyds branch to ask why he was unable to spend his 
money. Lloyds have provided me with system notes from the time and the block was 
removed, after Mr J told them hed received an insurance claim. He also told them hed paid 
some money to his dad, brother and a friend and was trying to treat himself.
Ive considered what Mr J has said about the conversation that day being held in the open. 
But Mr J visited the branch specifically to remove the freeze Lloyds had placed on his 
account. So I think its unlikely he intended to mention any difficulties, when his aim was to 
sort out access to his account and money. I also think its reasonable for Lloyds to have 
been satisfied there was no further cause for concern, after Mr J verified it was him making 
the transactions.
Mr J continued to use his account and several months later received a credit which led 
Lloyds to inform him theyd be closing his account. Mr J has been open and straightforward 
about the events that led to Lloyds making that decision. The closure of his account isnt in 
dispute, only the debt Mr J believes Lloyds said theyd write off.
Ive listened to the call between the member of branch staff and the internal team dealing 
with Mr Js account. Mr J was present in the branch at the time and its clear on that 
particular day his account balance was in credit by a small amount. It wasnt until a 
transaction hed previously authorised was manually applied to his account a few days later 
that his balance became overdrawn. So, it isnt possible Mr J was told in branch that day that 
he didnt have to repay the overdrawn balance, as the member of staff he spoke simply 
wasnt aware of the outstanding authorised, but at the time unapplied, transaction. And as it 
was a payment hed authorised and benefited from, I think Lloyds is entitled to say that the 
debt remains payable.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Js belief that the member of staff saying Lloyds would 
sort it meant theyd repay the individuals he owed money to on his behalf. I can imagine it 
must have been disappointing to find out this wasnt the case after he thought the matter had 
been dealt with. But by his own admission, Mr J spent the funds hed received, despite 
failing to send the items that had been purchased. Lloyds had just made the decision to 
close his account and had no responsibility to cover Mr Js liabilities to the third parties hed 
secured money from. So, I dont think Lloyds would have agreed to repay the third parties on 
Mr Js behalf. Im aware Lloyds made a payment to Mr J, in acknowledgement of a possible 
misunderstanding. I think this is sufficient to resolve matters. 
My final decision
To settle the complaint Lloyds paid £50 compensation to Mr J. I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances. So Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman