DRN-1242529
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly blocked a payment out of 
his account which meant he lost an investment opportunity.
What happened
Mr J says he tried to make a payment for £20,000 for an investment on 19 August 2019 but 
Halifax blocked it. He says he lost out on the investment opportunity which would have 
resulted in a profit of about £2,000. Mr J says it was his money, and he was making the 
payment to a genuine person that he had made payments to before. He says it took about a 
week to sort matters out which was too long.
Halifax says it blocked the payment as it had concerns about it and that Mr J may have been 
the victim of fraud. It says it tried to find out details about the transaction from Mr J on the 
telephone but still had concerns. Halifax says it told Mr J twice to attend a branch with 
identification as well as details about the investment. It says Mr J attended a branch on 20 
August 2019 but it had sufficient concerns to call the police. Halifax says Mr J provided 
information about the investment on 27 August 2019 and it unblocked the account.
Mr J brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator thought 
Halifax was entitled to block a transaction in line with account terms and conditions where it 
had security or fraud concerns. The investigator thought that is what took place here, and it 
wasn't our role to tell a business how it operates its security and fraud policies.
Mr J doesn't accept that view and says Halifax cost him the investment opportunity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Halifax has dealt fairly with this complaint and hasn't made a mistake.
I have looked at Mr J's account terms and conditions and I can see those terms and 
conditions say that Halifax may stop a payment where it has security and fraud concerns.  
I'm satisfied that is what took place on 19 August 2019 when Mr J tried to make a payment 
for £20,000. I appreciate that Mr J says it was a legitimate transaction but no doubt he 
appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and its customers. And I accept that on 
occasions legitimate transactions are blocked which can result in inconvenience. So I don't 
think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by blocking the transaction. And it's not our 
role to tell a business what its security and fraud policies are.
I have listened to the calls Mr J made to Halifax to try to get his account unblocked. Having 
done so, I understand why Halifax had concerns about the transaction and that it was 
worried that Mr J was a victim of fraud. I don't think Mr J was able to provide clear details 
about the transaction and that Halifax reasonably concluded there were concerns about the transaction. I'm satisfied that Mr J was told that he would need to attend a Halifax branch 
with identification and evidence of the transaction. I'm also satisfied that Mr J then called 
Halifax shortly after the first call and told it he hadn't called before. In those circumstances I 
don't think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by having further concerns about the 
transaction and the security of the account. 
I'm satisfied that during both calls Mr J was told to attend a branch with not only identification 
but with evidence of the transaction. But I don't think Mr J did provide that evidence when he 
first attended a Halifax branch and I don't think he did what he was advised to do as far as 
the investment details were concerned. I can also see that Halifax had sufficient concerns 
that Mr J may be the victim of fraud that it called the police.
I can see that Mr J did provide information and evidence of the investment and the account 
blocks were removed on 27 August 2019. I think if that evidence had been provided sooner, 
then the account block could have been removed far sooner.
Overall I accept this was Mr J's money, and he is entitled to spend it as he wishes. But 
equally Halifax has a duty to protect its money and its customers money. I'm satisfied that Mr 
J was told on a number of occasions what he needed to do to remove the blocks, but he 
didn't provide that evidence. In those circumstances I find Halifax has acted fairly and hasn't 
made a mistake or misled Mr J. I have not seen any evidence Halifax suggested Mr J 
himself was involved in any scam or fraud and suggested he may be the victim of fraud or a 
scam. And that Halifax acted reasonably to protect Mr J's money where it had legitimate 
concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman