The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2007. Mrs G says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The PPI was designed to help protect Mrs Gs monthly credit card repayments if she couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs G disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs G's case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
RBS records show that Mrs G applied for the card on line. She selected the box to
take cover, rather than declining PPI. Mrs G's not said that RBS assisted her to
complete the application. Based on what we know about RBS' sales process, I think
it  likely it was made clear that PPI was an optional extra on the online application. So
I think PPI was added because Mrs G said she wanted it, having been told before it
was optional.
I dont believe RBS recommended the PPI to Mrs G. So, it didnt have to check if it
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed
to decide if it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
I can't see that the PPI was inappropriate for Mrs G based on her circumstances at
the time. She was eligible for the cover, in that she qualified to take out the
insurance.  She wasn't affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in cover
that might have led her not take PPI if clearer information had been provided . She
said she was in good health, employed by the same company as she is now, had no
dependants and her partner would've helped with her repayments. I accept that her
partner may have wanted to, but help of this kind can't always be guaranteed when
the time comes, so I haven't placed any reliance on this. The PPI would've paid out
on top of any work related benefits Mrs G received allowing her to use these to meet
her other household expenditure.
I've considered that it's possible the information RBS gave Mrs G about the PPI
wasnt as clear as it should have been, for example about the costs of the policy.
DRN-1680957 Mrs G said she wouldn't have wanted to pay an additional amount for PPI. But she 
appeared to select PPI  so it looks like she said she wanted this type of cover. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
cost of PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means the policy wasn't mis-sold and  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs G. But RBS has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G  because:
 RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)
 so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs G, that was unfair.
 To put that right, RBS has agreed to pay back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has not done so already, 
it should pay this to Mrs G.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman