DRN-2100891
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Company has handled his claim on his car
insurance following an accident and with the standard of the repairs it carried out. He doesnt
think the compensation Aviva has offered him for the distress and inconvenience it has
caused him is fair.
What happened
Mr Rs car was hit from behind by a third party in November 2018, so he made a claim on
the car insurance (he was a named driver on the policy).
Mr R is unhappy with the time taken its taken Aviva to arrange the repairs, with the quality of
those repairs and with the service hes had from Aviva. On this last point, he says hes been
given unclear information, has had questions left unanswered and has done a lot of chasing
around.
When Mr R complained to Aviva about these things, it offered him compensation of £500 for
delays in getting the car repaired and for the repairs not being to a satisfactory standard.
Mr R didnt think this was enough compensation and so he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Rs complaint thought Avivas offer was reasonable. So
Mr R has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
In my provisional decision of 15 July 2020 I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and direct Aviva to pay him £750 (rather than the £500 it has offered him) for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused him.
Mr R hasnt given me any comments on my provisional decision. Aviva says it thinks its 
assessment has been fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mr Rs car was damaged in November 2018. Initially Aviva considered writing off Mr Rs car.
But, after talking with him, it increased its valuation of the car and this made the repair costs
economic. However, it was almost two months before Mr Rs car was taken away from his
home for repairs to begin. And in this time, his car battery also went flat.
At first, it seems Mr R identified a repairer but it couldnt take the car until after Christmas.
Aviva therefore looked for alternatives. But, in early 2019, another garage that had agreed to
take the car then said it wasnt taking immobile cars until further notice. So a second garage
was contracted to carry out the repairs.
When this garage contacted Mr R, it said it wanted to collect the car the next day to start the
repairs. Mr R says he had to ask a friend to hand over the keys, since hed be at work then.
He describes arranging this as a rush.
A few days later, the garage called Mr R asking him to collect his belongings from the car,
which was being scrapped. Mr R said this was the first hed heard of this. He says he called
Aviva  who also didnt know about plans to scrap the car  and then called the garage back
asking them not to scrap it.
Looking at Avivas internal records, it seems this second garage may have decided it didnt
want to do the repairs. In any case, within a few days, Aviva had appointed a third garage,
which was many miles from where Mr R lived, to do them. It seems the car was taken to the
new garage towards the end of January 2019.
By the middle of March I can see Mr R was asking Aviva for an update on the repairs and
was told final parts had arrived and completion was scheduled for the end of March. But
during this time, Mr R was also told the fan belt on the car had seized and it would need a
new fan belt and alternator (which Aviva agreed to pay for).
Mr R got his car back in April 2019, around five months after the accident. But when he
looked at the car closely, he immediately noticed problems with some of the repairs. So the
car had to go back to the garage for rectification work. This was carried out within a few
weeks and I think Mr R collected the car again at the end of April 2019.
It was at this point that Aviva wrote to Mr R, after hed complained, offering him £500 in
compensation for the delay in getting the repairs done to a satisfactory standard.
But from the information Ive got, this wasnt the end of Mr Rs problems. In June/July 2019,
he discovered some new issues with the repairs. Aviva inspected the car again in July 2019
and I think the further rectification work was carried out in September 2019. This was 10
months after the accident.
I understand Mr Rs car is a classic car and so required specialist repair. And I understand
this means it would take more time for Aviva to find a suitably qualified repairer. I can see it
took time to get some of the specialist parts needed for the repair and I think this is also
understandable. And I know Aviva arranged for Mr R to have a courtesy car for the duration
of the repairs.
But Mr R has described the car as his pride and joy. And, in the end, it took around 10
months to get it fixed. Of the delays by Aviva in getting the repairs started initially, Mr R says
For me to see it being left there with nothing being done [was] very upsetting.
Mr R hasnt described his feelings when he was told the car was being scrapped, but I can
imagine he was very deeply alarmed, especially given how much he says the car means to
him. It must also have been upsetting to see other things going wrong with it while it was off
the road  the battery going flat and the fan belt seizing  which I know Mr R thinks
happened because the car wasnt being driven.
Its clear Mr R had to spend a lot of time calling Aviva to try to sort out various issues that
came up over quite a long period of time. And hes said there were sooooooo many times I
had to email them with no response or just a very minimal response. I think this is more
than the usual inconvenience Id expect Mr R to experience after having been involved in caraccident.
The various delays Mr R experienced while the car was in for repair must also have been
frustrating. In an email to Aviva, Mr R says To be honest, Im starting to get quite annoyed
with how long this process has taken and how its been dealt with. I have not been updated
as requested and have still had to do all the chasing. These delays must also have been
very inconvenient for Mr R. Among other things, he refers to making six trips of more than 50
miles to review the repairs, each of which he says took him over an hour.
Ive taken into account Mr Rs description of his whole experience and also the fact that
Avivas offer of £500 was made before the second set of rectification works were carried out
on the car. In light this, its my intention to direct Aviva to award Mr R £750 (rather than
£500) in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
When Mr R first complained to us, he also had concerns about the excess on his car
insurance policy in relation to the courtesy car he used, as well as about his no claims
discount. And, as his case progressed with our service, there were discussions about
whether Mr R or Aviva should pay for the car headlining to be replaced. I think a 50:50 split
between Mr R and Aviva was agreed. If any of these things arent resolved now, Id be
grateful if Mr R and Aviva could let me have details as soon as possible so that I can look at
them before I make my final decision on this complaint.
Finally, I can see Mr R called our investigator a month or so ago about a new issue he thinks
may be related to the repairs. For the avoidance of doubt, this isnt something I will look at as
part of this complaint. If Mr R has concerns, he will need to raise them with Aviva in the first
instance. And, if he isnt happy with its response, he can come to us  but he would need to
bring a new complaint.
As Ive mentioned, Mr R hasnt commented on my provisional decision. Aviva says it thinks 
its assessment is fair. It says it did everything it could to prevent Mr Rs car being written off. 
It says his classic car was covered under a standard motor policy, where its approved 
repairer network didnt have the specialism to deal with cars of its age. And it says it gave    
Mr R a hire car for the duration of the repairs. 
But I took these things  along with everything else  into account in my provisional decision. 
So Avivas comments dont change the conclusions I set out in my that decision. Those 
conclusions therefore now form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr R, Aviva should pay Mr R £750, rather than the £500 it has offered 
him.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £750 (rather than 
the £500 it has already offered him) in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused him in connection with his claim on his car insurance.
Aviva should pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr R has accepted 
my final decision. If it doesnt, it should pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman