DRN-4001456
The complaint
Mr G complains that Mayfair International Private Wealth Management Ltd (Mayfair) 
transferred his pension funds from his Group Pension Plan (GPP) with one provider  
provider A - to another pension with a new provider  provider B  without his permission. 
He says this caused a financial loss and a great deal of stress and anxiety.
I understand that Mr G was happy about the transfer from a different pension provider  
provider C - to provider B, which went ahead around the same time as the disputed transfer. 
So this complaint solely relates to the transfer from provider A to provider B.
What happened
Mr G met with Mayfairs adviser in early November 2020. He had a pension with provider C 
and a GPP with provider A. Contributions of 16% of his annual salary were being made into 
the GPP.
Mr G said that he spoke with the adviser about his pension with provider A. And that hed 
been told that the pension didnt need to be touched as it was doing well and the charges 
were very good. 
Mr G said that Mayfairs adviser phoned him around 12 or 13 November 2020 to tell him hed 
sent a letter for Mr G to sign. Mr G said as his sister had recently died, he told the adviser 
that he wasnt in the right state of mind to read and sign anything. But that the adviser told 
him that the letter was simply to provide him with the authority to continue to deal with Mr G, 
as the adviser had changed firms. 
Mayfair sent Mr G its pre-advice suitability letter on 15 November 2020. The letter 
recommended that Mr G transfer his pension with provider C to provider B. The Reasons for 
transferring and the Comparison of charges sections of the letter only covered Mr Gs 
pension with provider C. A provider B illustration for the transfer from provider C was also 
produced as at 15 November 2020. The pre-advice letter also contained a section 
Alternative solutions considered, which noted that Mr G had another existing pension 
policy. But it didnt state who that policy was held with.
A fact find was also completed and signed by both Mr G and Mayfairs adviser on 16 
November 2020. On page 4 a handwritten note stated: [provider A] pension wants to do 
partial transfer and keep open. [Provider C] now  [Provider A] GPP partial when can be 
done. A typed page also noted:
Client also has a workplace pension which has been in place for 3 years with [provider A] 
and is a GPP with a 16% contribution and he wishes to do a partial transfer into a new 
pension in the hope of lower charges, ongoing advice and to put on the larger pension. This 
will be done after the initial transfer as top up. GPP to stay open for further contributions.   
Mr G signed and dated a Letter of Authority giving Mayfair the right to request scheme 
information from provider A on 16 November 2020.
Mr G said he later found out that hed signed an authority to transfer all but £1 of the funds in 
his GPP with provider A to provider B. He said this hadnt been discussed with Mayfair. 
Provider B wrote to Mr G on 17 November 2020 to tell him that his retirement plan had been 
set up. 
On 4 December 2020, provider A wrote to Mr G to tell him itd received his Letter of Authority 
and could now talk to Mayfair about his GPP. A provider B illustration for the transfer from 
provider A was also produced as at this date. On 8 December 2020, the Origo transfer 
service was used to request a transfer of all but £1 from provider A to provider B. The form 
used stated: the client would like to leave £1 in the plan to keep their account open with you 
so they may continue their future contributions with you. 
Provider A wrote to Mr G on 14 December 2020 to tell him itd moved his money to provider 
B. I understand that £22,565.31 was transferred. 
I understand that provider B wrote to Mr G on 15 December 2020 to tell him about his right 
to cancel his plan. 
On 17 December 2020 Mayfair wrote to Mr G to confirm its advice in relation to the 
additional transfer from provider A to provider B. The letter stated that it had discussed and 
agreed the charge payable for the advice, which was 1% of the transferred fund. And I 
understand that on 18 December 2020 provider B sent Mr G confirmation of the transfer.
Mr G complained to Mayfair about the advice hed received. He said hed only recently seen 
the paperwork hed been sent about the transfers. And he wanted to know why his funds had 
been moved from the GPP which cost him 0.25% each year to the arrangement with 
provider B which he felt cost him 1.9% a year. He also wanted to know why hed not been 
advised to transfer his funds with provider C into provider A, given the 0.25% annual fee.
Mayfair issued a response to the complaint on 14 June 2021. It said that Mr Gs adviser had 
left the business. It said that itd sent a number of documents to Mr G which hed signed on 
16 November 2020. And that the pre-advice suitability letter and the key facts document 
dated 15 November 2020 had also been passed to Mr G before his meeting with the adviser 
on 16 November 2020.
Mayfair also said that the nature of the arrangement with provider B was such that the other 
benefits, rewards and boosters it could provide meant that although the GPP with provider A 
did have a low charge of 0.25%, Mr G couldve benefited from similarly low charges, once 
the cost of annual reviews were taken into account, if he gained the maximum rewards from 
provider B. 
Ive not been provided with Mr Gs response to Mayfairs complaint response. 
Mayfair wrote to Mr G again on 26 July 2021 to tell him that it had reached the point where it 
would reduce his annual charge from 1.0% to 0.5% each year. It also asked him to confirm 
the details within the fact find it had on file. 
Mayfair wrote again to Mr G on 30 July 2021, after hed transferred the servicing of his 
pension arrangements away from Mayfair to another adviser. It said that the objective for the 
recent review had been to ensure that the advice Mr G had received was suitable for his 
specific needs at the time the advice was given and that it remained so. It said that after 
conducting the review it had been satisfied that the advice had been suitable and would 
enable Mr G to meet his objectives more easily.Mr G complained to Mayfair about the transfer on 22 September 2021. He said that provider 
B was much more expensive than provider A. And that he hadnt given permission for the 
transfer. Mr G also felt that the adviser had been struck off during the recommendation 
process.
Mayfair responded to Mr Gs complaint on 24 September 2021. It said the adviser hadnt 
been struck off at the time he was advising Mr G. And that he had full permissions to deal 
with Mr Gs pension. However, it said that the adviser had subsequently been suspended 
and had his contract terminated. Mayfair didnt agree that the switch had caused Mr G a 
financial loss. So didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G complained again to Mayfair on 24 September 2021. He said hed signed the letter 
hed been sent which authorised the transfer from provider A to provider B as the adviser 
had falsely assured him his signature was simply required so that he could carry on being 
his adviser. 
Mr G referred the complaint to this service on 14 October 2021. He said that to resolve his 
complaint, he'd like the money he'd paid Mayfair in fees to be returned. And compensation 
for the money hed lost on his GPP with provider A. 
After receiving this services request for its files relating to this complaint, Mayfair sent its 
final response to Mr Gs September 2021 complaint letter on 3 November 2021. 
Mayfair said that Mr G had said that hed received its letters dated 15 November 2020 and 
17 December 2020 which had detailed the advisers recommendations. It said these letters 
had been written in plain English to avoid confusion and that they clearly highlighted Mr Gs 
cancellation rights if hed wanted to exercise them. It acknowledged that Mr G had said hed 
signed those letters without understanding the contents. But said it was always wise to read 
and understand documents before signing them. Mayfair said it had also written to Mr G on 
30 July 2021, following a conversation itd had about his pension. It said that during that 
conversation, Mr G hadnt raised any such confusion. 
Mayfair said that as Mr G had transferred to another adviser, it no longer had access to his 
plans so it couldnt measure whether theyd continued to grow at an acceptable level.
Mayfair questioned the validity of Mr Gs referral to this service. It said that it remained 
confident that the advice it provided was suitable and remained suitable. But, in the spirit of 
treating Mr G fairly it offered to reverse the transfer from provider A and refund the 1% initial 
charge made on the value of the transferred funds.
Mr G told this service that he didnt want to accept Mayfairs offer. He said that his pension 
with provider A had been transferred without his permission. And that it had been transferred 
to a more expensive fund that hadnt performed as well. He also confirmed that his pension 
was no longer invested with provider B.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that Mayfairs offer 
wasnt in line with what this service wouldve recommended. And that Mayfair should put Mr 
G as close as possible to the position he wouldve been in if the transfer had never gone 
ahead. She also felt it should pay him £350 for the stress and anxiety caused by the switch.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that £5,000 should be paid into his fund with 
provider A. And that a further £5,000 should be paid as compensation for the stress Mayfair 
had caused him. He said the proposed redress wouldnt make Mayfair accountable for what 
it had done. Mayfair didnt agree with our investigator. It said it couldnt accept that Mr G had never 
received documentation or agreed to the switch when hed clearly signed documents 
confirming his agreement to make the transfer. It said that there were a number of 
documents which specifically demonstrated that Mr G had been aware of the transfer to 
provider A, including a notice of cancellation letter. Mayfair didnt agree that Mr G had never 
agreed to the switch. It said that three different sources had sent him documentation about 
the provider A transfer. And that hed been given ample opportunity to raise issue or to 
cancel the transfer at the time. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 31 January 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. Ive not seen enough evidence that Mr G was 
deceived into signing the paperwork which enabled the transfer to be authorised. I also 
consider that Mr G was sent information about the transfer that shouldve made him aware of 
it in time so that he couldve cancelled it. I appreciate this decision will be very disappointing 
for Mr G. Ill explain my decision. 
Our investigator considered that the complaint had come to us within our time limits. And I 
agree that it did, for the same reasons she gave in her view. Therefore I can consider the 
merits of this complaint. 
Im also satisfied that Mr Gs adviser at the time of the advice was fully authorised and 
regulated by the regulator. So I cant fairly uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G has also complained that he never agreed to the transfer from provider A to provider B. 
He said that he was deceived into signing the paperwork which in the end allowed the 
transfer to take place. Mr G said that Mayfairs adviser falsely assured him he needed to sign 
the document hed been sent so that he could carry on being his adviser. 
Mayfair considered that the advice it provided was and remained suitable. But said it was 
prepared to reverse the transfer from provider A and refund the 1% initial charge made on 
the value of the transferred funds in order to ensure Mr G was treated fairly.
Ive carefully considered what Mr G told this service. And Ive also reviewed a copy of the 
Letter of Authority he said he was duped into signing. Provider A is listed as the name of the 
pension provider. And the letter clearly states that it was going to be used to request details 
of an existing pension plan in Mr Gs name. The letter goes on to request scheme 
information. From what Ive seen, its very clear what its for. Mr G signed the letter on 16 
November 2020.
I understand that it was a difficult time for Mr G and that he felt he was signing the letter on 
the assumption it was for something else. But, from what Ive seen, its difficult to see how he 
wouldnt have realised what the form was for when signing it. 
Even if Mr G didnt know what he was signing at the time, I consider that he was made 
aware of the transfer, and that he had several opportunities to prevent it from going ahead if 
he didnt want it to. I say this because the 16 November 2020 fact find, which Mr G signed, 
referenced Mr Gs pension with provider A and said that it would also be transferred  as a 
partial transfer, so that he could still use it for new pension contributions  after the transfer 
from provider C to provider B. And Mayfairs 17 December 2020 advice letter detailed the transfer.
I also note that provider A wrote to Mr G on 4 December 2020 to tell him it could now talk 
with Mayfair about his pension with it as it had received his letter of authority. It also wrote to 
him on 14 December 2020 to tell him it had transferred £22,565.31 to provider B. I 
understand that provider B also wrote to Mr G on 15 December 2020 to tell him he had the 
right to cancel the transfer. And on 18 December 2020 to confirm the trade.
Overall, I consider that even if Mr G hadnt known what he was signing on 16 November 
2020, he had several letters that shouldve alerted him to the situation and allowed him to 
prevent the transfer from happening, or get it reversed, at the time. 
I asked Mr G if he had received all of the correspondence Ive noted at the time it was sent. 
He didnt directly answer but did tell me that he only found out about the transfer after 
receiving his provider A pension statement sometime after the transfer and wondering where 
all his money had gone. He said that at this point he started looking into his pension 
statements. And asked a new financial adviser to look into it for him. 
I acknowledge that if Mr G didnt read any of the letters Mayfair, provider A or provider B 
sent him in November and December 2020, he may not have been aware of the transfer 
from provider A to provider B. But I cant fairly hold Mayfair responsible for that. I consider 
that Mr G had a responsibility to read the important financial information he had been given. 
And while I do understand that Mr G was going through a difficult time and didnt want to 
focus any energy on his pensions at this point in time, he couldve decided to postpone his 
pension transfers until he was in a better frame of mind.
I do have some sympathy with Mr G. The 15 November 2020 pre-advice letter didnt directly 
reference his pension with provider A. I consider that it wouldve been better if that letter had 
also considered this pension alongside the pension with provider C. However, I can see that 
the transfer from provider A to provider B was discussed, as its referenced twice in the 16 
November 2020 fact find, which Mr G signed. Ive also seen that Mr G was given a number 
of opportunities to question or stop the transfer, if hed read the letters he was sent at the 
time. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that Mayfairs adviser deceived Mr 
G into signing the paperwork which enabled the disputed transfer to go ahead. Mayfair has 
confirmed to this service that its offer to refund the 1% initial charge for the transfer from 
provider A to provider B remains. As I dont intend to uphold the complaint, I cant fairly ask 
Mayfair to change its offer to Mr G. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mayfair said that its adviser visited Mr Gs home to carry out the fact find on 16 November 
2020. It said Mr G had confirmed this in an email to it on 24 September 2021, in which hed 
said: [Adviser name] came to my house to talk to me about a new pension fund.
Mayfair said it couldnt confirm whether the letter of authority had been sent in the post or 
handed over in person on 16 November 2020. But said that Mr G had confirmed that he 
signed the letter of authority in his home with the adviser present. Mayfair said that the pre-
suitability letter, the letter of authority and the fact find wouldve all been reviewed and 
discussed at Mr Gs home on 16 November 2020 before Mr G signed them.
Mr G said that he hadnt been aware that he couldve cancelled or postponed any transfer. 
He said this was because he didnt know there was going to be a transfer, because he 
thought the paperwork he was signing simply allowed his adviser to continue to advise him. Mr G also said that he received no information about the transfer until after it was done. He 
said he felt like hed been completely taken advantage of.
After having sight of Mr Gs response to my provisional decision, Mayfair also said that its 
only further comment would be that Mr G had a widely differing recollection of events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still consider that Ive not seen enough evidence that Mr G was deceived 
into signing the paperwork which enabled the transfer to be authorised. 
I acknowledge that Mr G said he hadnt been made aware of the transfer at the time. But I 
remain of the view that the various letters Mr G was sent around the time of the transfer 
shouldve alerted him to the situation. And couldve given him the opportunity to prevent or 
reverse the transfer. 
Im sorry that Mr G felt he was taken advantage of at a difficult time in his life, but I remain of 
the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman