DRN-4346971
The complaint
Mrs N complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) declining 
a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs N had a pet insurance policy with CG covering her dog, taken out in February 2021. In 
October 2022 Mrs Ns dog became ill with stomach problems. She took the dog to a vet who, 
after several visits, blood tests, scans and x-rays, diagnosed the dog as having ingested 
some sort of toxin. This led to the dogs stomach to become inflamed, leading to internal 
bleeding and potential stomach ulceration.
Mrs N made a claim for the cost of treatment of her dog. However, CG said they wouldnt 
accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical history indicated it had been seen by a vet in 
the past (visits in 2014, 2015 and 2019) for an upset stomach causing diarrhoea. CG said 
had they been aware of the history when Mrs N took out the policy, they would have applied 
an exclusion relating to the dogs digestive system (from February 2021). As the condition 
claimed for would have fallen within the exclusion, they wouldnt accept the claim. 
Mrs N was unhappy about CGs decline of her claim, as she didnt think the previous history 
indicated a pre-existing condition. When shed taken out her policy, shed answered no to 
the question about whether her dog had a pre-existing condition, as she thought an 
occasional upset stomach wasnt a pre-existing condition. Mrs N raised this point with CG, 
but they replied to refer to the policy definition of a pre-exiting condition, confirming their 
decline of the claim. Mrs Ns vet also disagreed with CG that there was a pre-existing 
condition, providing a report to this effect. 
Mrs N then complained to this service. Together with the opinion of her vet, she disputed her 
dog had an upset stomach and at no time had sickness or diarrhoea.  Shed paid the vet bills 
for treatment of her dog, totalling some £3,000 (but she accepted her policy provided cover 
to a maximum of £1,000 and because of the age of her dog, there was a co-payment 
proportion). She wanted CG to accept her claim under the terms of the policy.
As Mrs N hadnt first raised a complaint with CG, our investigator asked them to consider the 
issues raised by Mrs N. CG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said 
when Mrs N took out her policy, the terms and conditions provided to her said pre-existing 
conditions (or where there were clinical signs of existence) wouldnt be covered. CG referred 
to information in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the Policy 
Definitions, Veterinary Fees and General Exclusions sections of the policy which stated pre-
existing conditions werent covered. 
CG also referred to the clinical history of the dog, with instances of diarrhoea in previous 
years, going back to 2014. They also referred to a visit to the vet in May 2022 and then the 
visits in October and November 2022 (for which the claim had been made). CG said the 
clinical notes indicated the dog had displayed the same clinical signs and symptoms of 
vomiting and diarrhoea both before the policy was taken out and in October and November 
2022. CG also noted Mrs N had been made aware that pre-existing conditions wouldnt be 
covered when she took out the policy. So, CG confirmed their decline of the claim.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ns complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly in declining the 
claim. The vet had confirmed he issue with the dog wasnt one of digestion but was due to 
ingestion of  toxin. So it was unrelated to the previous issues. It was reasonable for Mrs N to 
think the previous issues were isolated incidents and not symptoms of  an underlying 
condition. To put things right, the investigator thought CG should settle the claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and (if settled) add interest to the claim.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In disagreeing, they referred to the dogs 
previous clinical history and said the vets working diagnosis of haemorrhagic gastroenteritis 
was a condition affecting the digestive system (and noted the vet had said the dog had 
shown signs of colitis prior to the policy inception). They also referred to the policy definition 
of an associated condition, which they said indicated the claim was for treatment of one [pre-
existing] condition, so theyd correctly declined the claim as a pre-existing condition. 
As CG disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mrs N. 
The key issue in Mrs Ns complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her dog. CGs view (as set out in their final response) is that the clinical history 
indicates previous consultations that  had they been aware of them at the time Mrs N took 
out her policy  would have led them to apply an exclusion to the policy from February 2021. 
The exclusion would have included the condition claimed for in October 2022, so they 
correctly declined the claim. Mrs Ns view is that the previous visits werent related to the 
condition in October 2022, supported by the view of her vet. So, it was reasonable for her to 
think the dog didnt have a pre-existing condition.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including Mrs Ns vets opinion and the clinical history of Mrs Ns 
dog. In their final response, CG refer to the following statement in the IPID:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition 
In confirming their decline of the claim, CG referred to the following definition of a pre-
existing condition:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Similar wording appears under the Veterinary Fees heading, where theres a sub-heading 
What is not insured?CG also refer to the General Exclusions section of the policy that includes the following:
As with all insurance policies, there are exclusions and conditions that apply to Your 
coverage. We have listed below the exclusions that apply to all sections of Your 
Policy coverage.
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
If we are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-existing Conditions will not be covered, and We reserve the right to add a 
relevant endorsement(s) to your Policy in respect of these Pre-existing 
Conditions. . 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, or 
previous episodes that indicated a pre-existing condition. In declining the claim, CG refer to 
the following three visits to the vet recorded in the clinical notes:
17/7/2014 - Owner constantly changing food to keep [dog] eating. V+ froth this 
morning And stools softer, slightly gurgly tummy.
15/12/2015  Diarrhoea all weekend, now blood in it.
23/4/2019  Off food 1 week, Or D+ getting worse now and orange tint.
Ive also looked at the extracts from the clinical notes in May 2022 and October and 
November 2022, referred to by CG in their final response. 
Ive also considered Mrs Ns vets opinion. Their statement says:
The current claim for [dogs name] is not an issue of digestion, it is a working 
diagnosis of haemorrhagic gastroenteritis secondary to ingestion of an unknown 
toxin/irritant. The previous episodeswere due [to] changing of diet, and colitis 
signs. The episode has involved gastric bleeding and we are treating the associated 
complications of this.
As Mrs Ns vet examined the dog and provided a professional view based on their 
examination and treatment, then Im more persuaded by their view the previous episodes 
werent related to the current issue and so the latter didnt indicate a pre-existing condition.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Taking all these points into account, Im not 
persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to 
decline Mrs Ns claim (or saying they would have applied the exclusion from February 2021).
While CG referred in their final response to the decline of the claim on the grounds that the 
dog had a pre-existing condition, in their response to our investigators view they referred to 
policy terms and conditions, specifically the definitions of the term Associated Condition. 
Given the definition, they consider the previous incidences of vomiting and diarrhoea to be 
associated conditions. As cover wasnt provided for associated conditions (or pre-existing 
conditions) they maintain they acted correctly to decline the claims.While the claims werent originally declined (nor in their final response) on the grounds of 
associated conditions, I have considered what CG have now said. They refer to the following 
definition of Associated Condition:
Associated Condition means a Condition that is either a recurring illness and/or 
Accidental Injury or Lump; or related to a previous Illness and/or Accidental Injury or 
Lump; or caused by a previous Illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lumpany 
Treatment for an Associated Condition will be considered as one Condition, 
regardless of when the Treatment occurred.
Ive considered these definitions in the context of the circumstances of this case. Looking at 
the wording of the definition of Associated Condition I dont believe the incidences in this 
case would reasonably be held to fall within the definition. I say this because the incidences 
werent accidental injury (or a lump). And the incidences in the clinical notes before the 
policy was taken out occurred between 2014 and 2019, being some seven and two years 
respectively before the policy was taken out. Which doesnt indicate a recurring illness 
(rather than isolated incidents at infrequent intervals). Nor were they  given the vets 
opinion  related to the previous incidences.
So, Ive concluded CG cant reasonably apply (even retrospectively) the Associated 
Condition exclusion to decline the claims.
Given these conclusions, I also think it was reasonable for Mrs N to think her dog didnt have 
a pre-existing condition when she took out the policy, so it wasnt unreasonable of her to 
have answered no to the question about whether her dog had a pre-existing condition.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, they should settle the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the 
costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG settle the claim, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
accepted, from the date Mrs N paid the vets bill, to the date they settle the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Mrs Ns claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settle the claim, they should also 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Mrs N paid the vets 
bill to the date they settle the claim.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd consider theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs N how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs N a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Your text hereUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman