DRN-2569681
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the market value esure Insurance Limited used to settle a total 
loss claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened 
In August 2020 Mr Ss daughter  named under his car insurance policy  was unfortunately 
involved in an incident. esure settled the claim as a total loss. Mr S says the amount esure 
paid isnt enough and doesnt reflect the asking price for advertised cars online. 
Our investigator thought esure had reached its valuation in a reasonable way. 
Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer reached its valuation in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
esures policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of the car 
at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as the amount Mr S could have 
reasonably expected to sell his car for immediately before the loss. It says it researches 
motor trade guides to find a valuation and this may not reflect the price paid for the car. 
Our approach is also to look at the main motor trade guides. They provide valuations based 
on likely selling prices for the month of loss for a car of the same or very similar make, 
model, age, condition and mileage. Sometimes we will consider other evidence such as an 
engineer report or advertisements where for example, a car is rare or too old to be covered 
by the guides. Neither of these examples apply to Mr Ss car.
We generally find advertised prices less reliable as they tend to be a starting point with a 
margin to reduce the price. And the prices can vary widely for similar cars as they are based 
on what the seller thinks the car is worth. 
Mr S says that he has spoken to traders who tell him that used cars are more recently selling 
at a premium and the amount esure has paid Mr S isnt enough, even though it had higher 
mileage than the sample of adverts hes kindly sent us. Mr S has also referred to our website 
which provides guidance for these types of complaints which says that trade guides have 
recently told us that cars are generally selling close to the advertised prices.
Ive considered Mr Ss points here. However, the motor trade guides take into account likely 
selling prices for the month of loss. So I think they are a more reliable source to reach a 
valuation in this case than the sample of advertisements provided. Of the examples Mr S 
provided, the mileage ranged between 70,000 miles and 108,000 miles. While mileage isnt 
the only factor taken into account, it can significantly affect the value of a car. Mr Ss car had 
over 135,500 miles which was considerably more than the advertised cars.
Having looked at the motor trade guides, esure paid a settlement sum of £3,600 as the 
average of the guides. We checked the motor trade guides and found that esure has paid 
within the range of them. So I cant conclude that esure has acted unreasonably. 
I understand Mr S is very disappointed with the amount esure has paid for his car. But I think 
it properly considered all of the information and reached its valuation in a fair way and in line 
with the policy. So this means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman