DRN-4216784
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim she made on her private 
medical insurance policy and with the service she received. 
What happened
Ms B has a private medical insurance policy with Aviva. She switched from another insurer, 
who Ill refer to as Insurer B, in October 2021. Her Aviva policy was underwritten on a 
moratorium basis, with continued underwriting from Insurer B. Ms B had previously had a 
diagnosis of, and treatment for, ovarian cancer. 
Around eight months after she took out the policy her consultant identified a mass in her 
pelvis. Ms B underwent private cancer treatment at a cost of approximately £49 000. Aviva 
has declined to cover the cost of the treatment as they say that the moratorium applies 
because: 
Ms B had symptoms of, medication or treatment for, or advice about such 
a disease, illness or injury within five years before the start date of the 
policy 
There had not been a clear two year period after the start date of the 
moratorium during which shed been free of medication or treatment for, 
and advice about such a disease, illness or injury or related condition. 
They also didnt think Ms B had completed the switch declaration correctly. So, they 
declined the claim. Ms B complained but Aviva maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. 
Ms B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked into what 
had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to decline the claim. And, she didnt think Ms B had accurately answered the medical 
questions when she switched from Insurer B. She also thought that the medical evidence 
suggested it was most likely Ms Bs current cancer diagnosis was connected to the previous 
diagnosis. 
Ms B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she said 
shed had blood tests, but they shouldnt be considered as cancer diagnostic tests. She also 
said shed not received advice from a GP or consultant during the relevant time. Finally, she 
said that Aviva couldnt have known with certainty that her more recent cancer was a 
recurrence of her previous cancer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of empathy with Ms Bs circumstances. I understand that shes been left 
with a significant bill to pay for her treatment at an already difficult and worrying time. 
However, based on the available evidence, Im not upholding this complaint. 
The switch declaration 
Aviva says Ms B answered medical questions incorrectly when she switched her policy. This 
means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) is relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the
circumstances of this case.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care
not to misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care
required is that of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered
when deciding whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and
specific the questions asked by the insurer were.
When Ms B switched her policy from Insurer B she had to complete a switch declaration. It 
said: 
Have you or any person to be covered by this policy experienced symptoms, or had 
any consultations, tests or treatment in the last 12 months or do you currently have 
any appointments planned with a GP, Specialist or a hospital in the future?
Have you or any person to be covered by this policy had any consultations, tests, 
medication or treatment in the last 5 years relating to any: 
a) Type of cancer or suspected cancer (if the consultations or tests are part of 
routine NHS screening programmes and resulted in no further action then you do 
not need to tick yes to this question) 
Ms B answered no to both questions. 
The relevant moratorium date is 6 October 2017 although Ms B joined the Aviva policy in 
October 2021. She was discharged from her consultant oncologists care in October 2019. 
She had a CA125 check in September 2020. A CA125 check is a blood test which checks 
for a particular protein which is commonly associated with detection of ovarian cancer. In 
September 2021 she had a general health check and a further CA125 check. 
I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude Ms B ought to have answered yes to the 
switching questions. Ms B was asked in October 2021 if she had any consultations, tests, 
medication or treatment in the last 5 years relating to any type of cancer or suspected 
cancer. Shed had a consultation with her consultant, attended her GP and had tests which 
related to cancer. All of this took place within five years of October 2021 which was when 
she joined the policy. 
Based on the evidence available to me I dont think its reasonable to conclude these were 
consultations or tests which were part of a routine NHS screening programme. I think its 
more likely these were follow-up tests to monitor Ms B for ovarian cancer and keep an eye 
out for recurrences of it. 
Aviva hasnt confirmed what action they would have taken had they been aware of Ms Bs medical history. But, for the reasons Ill go on to explain I think there are other reasons why 
Ms Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
The moratorium 
Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any pre-existing 
condition, or any related condition, if you had: 
Symptoms of
Medication for
Diagnostic test for 
Treatment for, or
Advice about 
That condition in the five years before you joined the policy. 
However, we will cover a pre-existing condition if you do not have:
Medication for
Diagnostic tests for 
Treatment for, or 
Advice about 
That condition during a continuous two-year period after you join the policy. 
Advice is defined as: 
Any consultation, advice or prescription from a GP or specialist. 
The moratorium period started in October 2017. Ms Bs diagnosis was in October 2013 and 
she had treatment followed by consultations until 2019, as well as blood tests after that date. 
Ms B continued to visit her GP for tests, and I think its reasonable to conclude that 
amounted to her receiving advice about her condition. So, I think its most likely this was a 
condition that met the criteria set out in the moratorium terms Ive set out above. Ms Bs position is that she was cancer free between 2019 and 2021 and so she should be 
covered by the policy. But, I dont think Ms B had a continuous two-year period without 
advice as shes suggested. For example, as Ive outlined above, she had an appointment 
for a CA125 blood test in September 2020. She also had a further appointment for the same 
test in September 2021. I think its most likely they fall within the period Ms B says she didnt 
receive any advice about her condition. I also think Aviva fairly concluded a GP appointment 
for a blood test which checks for cancer can reasonably considered to fall within the relevant 
policy definition of advice. 
Ive taken Ms Bs representations into account, but they havent changed my thoughts about 
the outcome of this complaint. Im not persuaded that the blood tests were routine in the way 
Ms B has suggested. As Ive outlined above, I think Ms B was most likely being monitored 
for a recurrence of cancer. So, even if the tests werent being used as diagnostic tests, I still 
think they can reasonably be considered as her seeking advice about her condition. 
I appreciate Ms B feels that she didnt get advice in relation to any form of cancer in the two 
years before her claim. She said that any form of GP appointment would then be advice. I 
dont agree. And, in any event, Ms B was attending her GP in order to complete the CA125 
check. So, she was attending her GP for a specific purpose, linked to her previous diagnosis 
of cancer.
I also think Aviva reasonably relied on the medical evidence provided by Ms B which 
suggested that there had been a reoccurrence of the cancer. That was reflected in the 
medical evidence that was available to Aviva at the time. I appreciate that Ms B received 
more information at a later date. But that information wasnt available to Aviva and they 
could only act on the basis of the information available to them. I dont think it would have 
been reasonable to expect Aviva to pay for the claim until a more detailed analysis had 
taken place, particularly bearing in mind the overarching evidence relating to the moratorium 
period.
Ive taken into account what Ms B has said about Avivas handling of the claim. I appreciate 
that this took place at a worrying and difficult time for her. However, Ive not seen evidence 
that Aviva caused unreasonable delays when handling the claim. The circumstances 
surrounding the claim were complex and I think this meant that Aviva had to ask for more 
information to ensure that the claim was assessed fairly. Whilst I appreciate that it was 
frustrating for Ms B, I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. 
The sale of the policy
If Ms B has concerns about the sale of the policy, including any advice or information given 
by her broker, shell need to make a complaint to the broker first.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman