DRN-2267980
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1998 and 
2001. Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester, 
mis-sold them this PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously has looked into the complaint and they said they didnt 
think we should uphold it. 
Mr and Mrs Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Js. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in making a decision 
about Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint in respect of either sale.
There is no specific allegation here that Mr and Mrs J didnt agree to the cover. This is 
substantiated, strongly in my view, by the paperwork from both sales. This shows they asked 
and applied for the cover on both occasions and were corresponded with regarding the PPI. 
They also authorised the monthly premiums to leave their bank account by completing direct 
debits.
I therefore think there is comprehensive and reliable evidence that Lloyds correctly obtained 
Mr and Mrs Js consent to add PPI. It shows they asked for PPI in 1998 to help protect their 
mortgage and they did so again in 2001, when they were rearranging their affairs.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J as part of an advised sale. It therefore had a 
duty to check that the PPI was right for them. Ive considered this with care and Im satisfied 
the evidence about Mr and Mrs Js circumstances of the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, they both appear to have been 
eligible for the PPI and although they may have had some sick pay with their respective jobs 
this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable. It could have helped pay their 
mortgage for up to a year if successfully claimed on.
So I think the PPI was suitable and it being recommended to them wasnt unreasonable.  
Also, there was nothing obvious about Mr or Mrs Js occupation(s) which would have made it 
difficult for them to make a successful claim on the policies in my view. There were no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems, as alleged. And Ive 
considered with care what was said about one party having suffered an accident in 1994. 
The representative sent no evidence or real detail about this and as it was four and seven 
years (respectively) before the PPI sales, there is no evidence this injury would have put Mr 
and Mrs J off buying the PPI in 1998.
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds gave to Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. However, the documentation I have seen for both sales does 
look quite comprehensive. They knew the price and who / what was covered. So, this 
doesnt alter my overall decision. I think the evidence is strong they chose to take the PPI 
out and it looks like they specifically wanted this type of protection. It wasnt too dissimilar to 
what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were probably 
given at the point of sale. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for them so it seems like it 
would have been useful if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs J 
would have declined the cover, even if Lloyds had done more or explained things better.
Mr and Mrs Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Js representative failed to say how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought carefully about all these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Js 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
and Mrs J, but this means Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to do anything more.
my final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman