DRN-1883247
The complaint
Mr K complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admiral) decision to decline a 
theft claim under his motor insurance policy. 
References to Admiral include its agents. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was unfortunately stolen off his driveway during the early hours of the morning in 
June 2019. So, he raised a theft claim with Admiral and reported it to the local police. 
Mr K gave details of the events leading up to the theft taking place. He said his wife used the 
car the morning before the theft to do the school run. When she returned home in the car, 
she was unable to find the keys, so they searched the car, but couldnt find them. Mr K said 
the keys to the car were a keyless fob and only needed to be in the car for it to start. And, as 
his wife was able to drive home from the school run, he thought the keys were somewhere in 
the car, or in a bag very close to it. Mr K also said he was able to turn the engine on whilst 
looking for the keys, which he said meant the keys were most likely somewhere in the car. 
Admiral told us Mr K said hed planned to drive the car to a dealership the following day to 
try and locate the keys within it.
Mr K said CCTV captured the theft. He said a thief broke the electric gates to the shared 
driveway leading up to his and neighbouring homes. Mr K considered the thief may have had 
a device which enabled them to trace the key given the short length of time between the thief 
breaking in through the electric gates, to stealing the car. 
Admiral appointed a third party to conduct interviews at Mr Ks home. Admiral said both Mr K 
and his wife said the car was left unlocked and the keys were most likely inside. Mr K also 
said the car was left parked as it normally would be, out of sight from the road and behind 
the electric gates. He said the thief had forced their way into his property by causing a 
significant amount of damage to the electric gates and stole the car off the driveway. 
Admiral suggested the thief may have taken the keys from Mr Ks wife before she arrived 
home after the school run, and later returned to steal the car. But Mr K disagreed with this 
and said it was more likely the thief used a device during the theft. 
Admiral later declined the claim and referred to the terms and conditions of the policy. It said 
Mr K had a responsibility to safeguard his car from loss or damage and didnt think hed 
taken reasonable steps to do so by leaving the car unlocked  particularly given he said it 
was likely the keys were inside. 
Mr K was unhappy about this. He said hed taken out insurance for the purpose of insuring 
himself against events such as this. He accepted in hindsight he couldve done more to 
protect his car. For example, he said he couldve parked his wifes car in front of his car to 
mitigate the risk of a potential theft. But at that time before the theft, he didnt consider there 
to be a risk. 
Mr K also didnt think leaving the car unlocked contributed to the theft given he thought the 
thief probably used a device to steal the car. He therefore considered the theft wouldve 
most likely taken place in any event  even if hed locked the car and kept the keys by the 
front door  given he says a device was most likely used. Mr K also says his appeal against 
Admirals decision to decline the claim wasnt fairly considered, as the agent that initially 
declined the claim also responded to Mr Ks appeal. As Mr K remained unhappy, he brought 
a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She didnt agree Admiral applied the 
policy terms unfairly or unreasonably. She also considered how Admiral handled things but 
didnt agree it treated Mr K unfairly. So, she didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr K disagreed. He said the theft of keyless cars are common and he doesnt think leaving 
his car unlocked was material to the theft occurring. He also remained that his car was left 
parked securely behind electric gates, unsighted from the road and under CCTV 
surveillance. Mr K also remained dissatisfied with Admirals appeals process following the 
claim being declined. 
As Mr K remained unhappy with the outcome recommended by our investigator, he asked 
for an ombudsman to decide the complaint. And so, the case has now been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is Mr Ks motor insurance policy. This covers his car for, amongst 
other things, loss or damage caused by theft. But the policy also says under general 
conditions of your cover that: 
3. Care of your vehicle 
You or any person covered by the policy must: 
Protect your vehicle from loss or damage 
Make sure your vehicle is roadworthy
Allow us to inspect your vehicle at any reasonable time we ask 
Remove the keys or secure any device that allows access to your vehicle, if it 
is left unoccupied 
If an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect 
your vehicle from loss or damage through: 
the inappropriate conduct of the driver; or 
the condition of the vehicle, caused or contribute to the accident; or 
your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured 
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead our responsibility will be 
restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law.Mr K says the terms shouldve been clearly highlighted to him given its significance here. So, 
Ive gone onto consider this. And in doing so, Ive looked at the Insurance Product 
Information Document which sets out key features, restrictions and significant exclusions of 
Mr Ks policy. This says: 
What is not insured? 
Poor security: we wont provide cover if you leave your car unlocked or 
unsecured or where keys or other opening device have been left in the car. 
I think Admiral highlighted that the policy doesnt provide cover in the event a theft takes 
place whilst a vehicle is left unlocked or unsecured. But an insurer needs to demonstrate its 
applied the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way, and that the breach of the term made 
a difference to the claim. And I think its done that here, so Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute about whether Mr K left the car unlocked. He said he did this because he 
thought the other keys remained inside, and although he had the spare key, he didnt think to 
lock it with the other set still inside the car. Mr K also said given the location of where hed 
parked it, he didnt think there was a risk of it being stolen. I appreciate its very unfortunate 
that what followed was a thief stole the car at the time Mr K left it unlocked with the keys 
likely still inside. But with that said, I think this demonstrates Mr K breached the policy terms 
which unfortunately resulted in a theft claim being made.  
Mr K says there was a relatively short period of time, as shown by the CCTV footage, 
between the thief breaking in through the electric gates, to stealing the car. In my view this 
shows the thief was able to gain entry to Mr Ks car within a very short period after 
approaching it. Given the car was left unlocked, there was very little to prevent the theft 
occurring and the thief likely used the push start button to start the engine  which Mr K said 
is the function of starting the car when the keys are inside. Because of this, Im more 
persuaded that, by Mr K leaving his car unlocked, this resulted in the theft occurring. So 
overall, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly by declining the claim on the basis Mr K left 
his car unlocked with the keys likely still inside. I think this had a material difference here 
given the thief didnt have to gain entry to take the car, and likely used the keys that 
remained inside the turn on the engine and steal the car. 
The circumstances of whether the thief knew the car was unlocked, had taken the keys prior 
to Mr Ks wife returning home or used a device to locate the keys remains unclear. But what 
is clear in my view is Mr Ks policy doesnt provide cover in the event his car is left unlocked 
or unsecured. So, I find on balance that Admiral has applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way because its most likely Mr K left the keys in the car and that was how the 
car was stolen. So, I wont be requiring it to do anything further here. 
Mr K also wasnt happy with Admirals appeals process. This was because his appeal about 
the claim being declined was responded to by the same agent whod originally declined it. I 
accept this wouldve frustrated Mr K, but I cant say this was unfair or due to an error  or 
indeed something I havent seen before. So, whilst I accept Mr Ks frustration, I wont be 
requiring Admiral to do anything under this part of the complaint. 
I appreciate my decision will come to disappoint Mr K. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Admiral  can do for him. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman