DRN-2564935
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the charges shes been invoiced by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) at the end of her car hire purchase agreement. The complaint 
is brought on her behalf by her husband who Ill refer to as Mr L.
What happened
Mrs L signed a three-year hire purchase agreement with MBFS in January 2016. The car 
was inspected when MBFSs agent came to collect the car. This identified damage and 
missing items valued at £565.50. Mrs L disputed the charges for the missing compressor 
and tyre sealant.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs L received an updated invoice from MGFS for £1,667.36. This 
followed a second inspection. Mrs L says she wasnt aware there would be a second 
inspection and that the damage listed may have been caused after the car had been 
collected.
MBFS said it wasnt possible to identify all the damage during the first inspection because of 
the weather and that the second inspection was carried out by an independent inspector. It 
wouldnt reduce the charges.
Our investigator concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to show a scratch on the 
bumper or damage to the centre console and that these items, totalling £335.50 should be 
removed from the invoice. MBFS agreed.
Mrs L didnt agree. Mr L said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
Its not clear why the agent arrived to carry out an inspection in poor visibility.
The second inspection identified damage to the interior of the car. If this was correct it 
should have been identified during the first inspection, because the weather would not 
have had an impact.
The car was driven a considerable distance before the second inspection, and he 
shouldnt have to pay for damage caused during that journey.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion of our investigator for these reasons:
Our investigator clearly set out why MBFS hadnt done anything wrong in following its own 
procedures and BVRLA guidelines with regard to the two inspections. And he set out what 
was said in the terms of the agreement, the letter sent to Mrs L before the end of the 
agreement, and the first report. Taking all this into account, I find Mrs L must have been 
reasonably aware that a second inspection would take place.
Mr L says the car shouldnt have been collected when visibility was poor. But this is covered 
in the documents Ive mentioned above. I wouldnt expect car collection to be delayed 
because of poor weather conditions as this could lead to a delay in collection which might 
breach other agreement terms and lead to charges.
The terms and conditions of the hire purchase contract say that the hirer must maintain the
vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the attached Vehicle Return Standards which
form part of this agreement. And the terms go on to explain that the hirer is responsible for
making good any damage or loss to the Vehicle however it occurs. Im satisfied that MBFSs
vehicle return standards are in line with the BVRLAs guidelines.
During the first inspection, Mrs L disputed the charges for the missing compressor (£140.50) 
and the tyre sealant (£60.00). These items have not been listed or charged for in the final 
invoice.
Our investigator concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to show that the scratch on 
the bumper (£210.00) and the damage to the central console (£125.50) exceeded the 
BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidance. Following our investigators conclusions, MBFS 
agreed to remove these from the invoice. I think this is fair.
Ive carefully considered the charges that remain, and Im satisfied that in each case the 
photos which form part of the second inspection report show the damage exceeds BVRLAs 
fair wear and tear guidance.
But Ive gone on to think about whether the damage could have been caused after the first 
inspection, particularly as the car was driven around 300 miles before the second inspection.
Mrs L had agreed the damage to the alloy wheels at the first inspection. So I find this 
damage was caused before the car was collected and is fairly chargeable.
The left-hand front tyre is cut. On balance, I think this damage is more likely to have 
occurred some time ago, and before the first inspection. So I find this damage is fairly 
chargeable.
The right-hand front tyre is not the required run flats tyre. This would have been present 
before the first inspection and I find it has been fairly charged.
I think the dent on the left-hand side of the car is unlikely to have been caused during the 
drive to the second inspection site. I would have expected to see other damage in that area, 
such as scratches or paint marks, if the damage had been caused recently. I find this 
damage was most likely caused before the car was collected and is fairly chargeable.
 
Right hand rear and front doors scratched. I think the nature of the scratches and their 
location mean they are unlikely to have been caused during the drive to the second 
inspection site. I think any damage during this journey would more likely be chips to the 
paintwork due to lose stone damage, rather than large scratches to the edge of the door. 
I find this damage was most likely caused before the car was collected and is fairly 
chargeable.
Mr L says the damage to the interior of the car should have been identified during the first 
inspection, because it wasnt affected by the weather. But, as noted earlier, MBFS has 
agreed to remove this item from its invoice.Im aware Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision. She can of course choose not to 
accept it if she wants to pursue this matter through the courts.
My final decision
My decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should remove the 
following charges from its invoice:
Bumper front scratched £210.00
Centre console rear broken £125.50
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman