DRN-2169524
The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Mr Lender provided to Mr S between September 2013 
and October 2014. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Start date End date Loan 
amountInstalments Highest 
repayment 
amountDeferrals
1 02/09/2013 29/01/2014 £500 1 £675 3
2 29/01/2014 30/05/2014 £700 1 £910 3
3 03/10/2014 13/10/2014 £700 6 £326.66 0
In its final response letter, Mr Lender said it would not look at loan 1 as it fell outside of the 
six-year time limit for looking at complaints. But in his view our adjudicator didnt accept this. 
He told Mr Lender that this was a complaint he could consider as although loan 1 was 
outside the six-year time limit  it still fell within the three years of when Mr S knew or ought 
to have known he had cause to complain. 
To be clear I will be looking at all three loans as part of this complaint. Mr Lender did not 
uphold Mr Ss complaint but offered a voucher for £25 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator did not think Mr Lender had done anything wrong in providing loan 1. But he 
said that loans 2 and 3 should not have been given. He said that by loan 2 proportionate 
checks would have shown that Mr S was having problems managing his money.
Mr Lender disagreed with this view. It initially offered to refund loan 3 and remove any 
adverse information. Following this offer it later disputed the uphold of loans 2 and 3. It said 
it would have been disproportionate to carry out a full financial review. Mr S also had a gap 
of 127 days between loans 2 and 3. It said it would consider this as a new chain of 
borrowing. It finally said Mr S did not increase his borrowing significantly or struggle to repay 
the loans.
As the parties havent reached agreement the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Ive decided to agree with our 
adjudicator and uphold loans 2 and 3. I will explain why.
For loans 1, I think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks and I dont think there was 
anything in the information it received that might have led it to believe Mr S was having 
problems managing money or prompted it to verify everything Mr S was saying about his 
financial situation.
For the first loan Mr S told Mr Lender that his income was £3,500 and that his expenditure 
was £570. This loan was rolled over three times before being repaid in full in January 2014.
Mr S then took out loan 2 for £700 on the same day he repaid loan 1. This time his 
repayment was £910.
So, the amount Mr S was asking for was more than his first loan which he had deferred three 
times and had just repaid on the same date. This time Mr S told Mr Lender that his income remained at £3,500 and his total expenses were £1,070. Again, he deferred repayment of 
this loan three times before repaying it in full in May 2014. I think this time Mr Lender should 
have carried out further checks based on the history of his first loan, the fact he was taking it 
out on the same day as he repaid loan 1 and because of the amount he had to repay. It 
could have done this in several ways including asking for bank statements to show Mr Ss 
outgoings or his wage slips to verify his income.
Mr S has provided copies of his bank statements from the time of this loan. I dont think it is 
unreasonable for me to rely on these statements to see what other financial responsibilities 
Mr S had at the time he took out loan 2.
These show that Mr S had at least four other short-term loans which he was repaying and he 
had numerous other short-term loans in the months before he took this out. It looks like he 
was likely borrowing to fill a hole in his finances. It seems Mr S was having problems 
managing his money. If Mr Lender would have sufficiently checked Mr Ss financial position 
as I think it ought to have done, I dont think it would have lent him loan 2.
For loan 3, this time Mr S told Mr Lender his outgoings were £1,570. He settled it early only 
10 days after he had taken it out. The first thing I will address is the gap in lending which 
Mr Lender says began a new chain of borrowing. I dont agree. Given Mr Lender knew about 
the history of this account and the deferred payments for loan 1 and 2, I dont think the five-
month gap was such a long time between borrowing and so I dont accept it began a new 
chain. Mr Lender should have looked further into his financial situation.
I can see from Mr Ss bank statements he had been borrowing from a few other short-term 
lenders not long before he took out his third loan and was still reliant on this type of credit 
even after repaying loan 2.
I think if Mr Lender had taken further steps to verify Mr Ss information as I think it ought to 
have done, it would have likely been alerted to him having problems managing his money 
and it was likely on balance that it would have realised that loan 3 was also unsustainable 
and unaffordable for him. Based on the information it had about Mr S, his situation hadnt 
improved when he took out loan 3.
I dont think it would have provided loans 2 and 3 to him if it had taken more steps to confirm 
the information it had received. So Im upholding the complaint about loans 2 and 3 and Mr 
Lender should put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ss complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman