DRN-1845166
The complaint
Miss T complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to her 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In April 2016 118 118 Money approved a loan of £1,800 for Miss T, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £173 per month over a term of 24 months. The loan was 
intended to consolidate some of Miss Ts other borrowing. When assessing the application, 
118 118 Money asked Miss T about her financial circumstances and carried out a credit 
check before approving the lending.
Unfortunately, it seems that Miss T ran into some financial difficulties in July 2017 and 
appears to have entered a repayment plan which reduced her monthly repayments to £114 
initially. After some varying repayment amounts, it would seem that Miss T managed to pay 
off the balance of the loan in February 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, and Ill explain why.
118 118 Money is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure 
that Miss T would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out 
in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments, 
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences  
Essentially, she needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay 118 118 Money for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will deal with 
separately below.
Did 118 118 Money carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
118 118 Money asked Miss T some questions about her income and expenditure, and 
carried out a credit check when considering her loan application. However, I dont think that 
was enough, and I say so because of what 118 118 Money would have seen as a result of 
the credit check.
Miss T declared a monthly income of £1,610 and expenditure of just over £800. Those 
outgoings were broken down into various categories, including housing costs, council tax, 
insurance, food, and amounts needed to service other debts. She estimated monthly 
outgoings of £300 to service existing debts. So, based on what Miss T told it about her 
financial situation, 118 118 Money could have concluded that she had a disposable income 
of nearly £800, which would have been enough to service an additional monthly repayment 
of around £173.
But the results of the credit check it completed showed 118 118 Money a different picture, 
and one to which I dont think it reacted as it should have. Crucially, it suggested that she 
had a far bigger debt burden, with monthly repayments in the region of £860  nearly three 
times what she had declared in her application. Additionally, the credit check showed that 
she had taken out 5 short-term loans just in the 6 weeks prior to her application to 118 118 
Money. So Im satisfied that the credit check results clearly and strongly signalled that Miss 
T may have had wider financial issues at the time and that 118 118 Money should have 
looked into things in far more depth.
118 118 Money says that its review into Miss Ts complaint (that is, a retrospective look at 
what Miss T did after the loan had been granted) showed that she settled some of her 
outstanding debt, as expected, using the money it advanced. I accept that debt consolidation 
was the purpose of the loan, and that would have had an impact on the assessment of 
expenditure going forward. However, Ive seen no evidence of 118 118 Money making such 
adjustments and taking that into account when assessing the affordability of this borrowing 
for Miss T in 2016. Even retrospectively, 118 118 Money has not given any specifics as to 
exactly how the settling of any loans increased Miss Ts disposable income and made it 
possible for her to sustainably repay this loan. In addition, it has only made reference to the 
repayment of £800 worth of debt  less than half the sum it decided to lend to her.
So, I dont think 118 118 Money did what it needed to in terms of checks when considering 
this loan, as it appears to me to have overlooked information it gained via the credit check, 
which flagged the real possibility of this borrowing being unsustainable. Therefore I have 
gone on to think about what it may have found if it had been more thorough, to decide 
whether it was wrong to approve Miss Ts application or not.
What would proportionate checks have shown, had 118 118 Money carried them out?
The regulations do not dictate how lenders should carry out checks, or prescribe what 
information they should rely on. So 118 118 Money could have done various things to verify 
what Miss T was telling them, and overall gain both a deeper and broader understanding of 
her financial situation. What I have seen are copies of Miss Ts bank statements from around 
the time. Ive placed particular weight on those from January to April 2016, from two current 
accounts that Miss T had in operation at the time. In the round, they paint a picture of 
someone heavily in debt who could not afford to take on any new borrowing, keeping in mind 
what CONC says about what sustainable borrowing looks like.
The key issues raised by the information in the statements are:
That Miss Ts monthly income from her job was actually around £1,500, not £1,610.
That between the amounts she needed to service her debts (over £900 in the month 
preceding the approval of this loan), pay the usual bills (at least £500), and buy food 
and other essentials (around £300), her outgoings substantially exceed that income.
That Miss Ts main current account was rarely in credit, and when it was that was 
brief and for a small amount. Whilst I accept that she remained within her agreed 
overdraft limit, she was clearly reliant on a wide range of borrowing merely to exist.As discussed in the preceding section, Ive carefully considered what 118 118 Money has 
said about this loan enabling Miss T to settle some existing loans, which would of course 
decrease the amount she would have needed to service debt going forward. But Ive seen 
no specifics as to how much 118 118 Money expected her to reduce her monthly credit 
commitments, and how they therefore factored that in and arrived at the conclusion that Miss 
T would be able to sustainably repay this borrowing. Looking at the extent to which her 
outgoings exceeded her income at the time, I certainly dont have enough evidence to 
persuade me that 118 118 Money relied on that in reaching a fair and reasonable lending 
decision. Nothing I have seen portrays this loan as being affordable for Miss T, and so it 
follows that I uphold her complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right 118 118 Money should:
refund all interest and charges applied to the loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above from the date they were paid, to the 
date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit file as a result of the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman