DRN-3401600
The complaint
Miss J complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for these reasons:
Before lending to Miss J, Creation were obligated to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks so that they could determine whether the repayments for her 
£13,000 loan would be sustainable for her. Creation hasnt provided us with Miss Js 
application, nor have they provided much information to demonstrate why they 
considered the information Miss J gave them met their affordability criteria. So, Ive 
had to base my decision on limited information.
Creation has said Miss Js loan was taken out in September 2017, and she told them 
she was working part-time  with a net annual income of just over £13,000. Given the 
amount of borrowing was similar to Miss Js annual income, I would have expected 
Creation to carry out a detailed assessment of her financial situation before deciding 
to approve her loan. Thats because she was borrowing a large amount (in 
comparison with her income), and this borrowing came with an APR of 23.90%. But 
from the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded thats what happened.
Creation has said they were aware that at the time of application, Miss J was paying 
£413 towards unsecured loan repayments and had a £5,620 revolving balance  
before the repayments for this loan of just over £350 per month. This information 
alone should have prompted Creation to ask further questions about Miss Js 
financial situation  particularly given this loan was taken out to consolidate her 
debts. Had Creation done this, they would have seen Miss J would be left with a 
disposable income of around £200 per month, after her regular payments debited her 
account. I dont consider a reasonable business could fairly say this level of 
disposable income equated to the repayments of this £13,000 loan being sustainable 
for Miss Js circumstances. 
Miss J has struggled to meet repayments for her loan; and turned to further 
borrowing to meet her financial commitments. I appreciate Creation werent expected 
to predict the future. However, had they carried out sufficient checks, the situation 
Miss J found herself in would have been foreseeable. In turn, they would have been 
able to decline her application  and that would have been the reasonable thing to do 
in the circumstances.
It's for these reasons I consider Creation lent to Miss J irresponsibly, and they need to do 
something to put things right.
Putting things right
As Miss J has had the benefit of the capital sum, she should repay this. But to put things 
right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
Remove all interest and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Miss J as payments towards the capital amount of 
£13,000.
If Miss J has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres an outstanding balance, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should come 
to a reasonable repayment plan with Miss J.
If there is any adverse information about the loan on Miss Js credit file, this should 
be removed.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to deduct tax from this 
interest, it should give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax is deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
To resolve this complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should provide the remedy set 
out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman