DRN-2109431
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Exeter Friendly Society Limited (Exeter) has dealt with his 
claim. 
 
What happened
Mr B had an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by Exeter, which he bought in 
April 2018, via an independent adviser. 
He made a claim following a hip replacement, in April 2019. Exeter declined the claim on the 
basis that Mr Bs medical records showed a six-year history of right hip pain. It said hed 
made a careless misrepresentation when he bought the policy. And it offered to either 
continue with the policy by adding a hip exclusion or it could cancel the policy and refund the 
premiums. 
Mr B disagreed and said he didnt have a six-year history of hip pain. He said the GP had 
made an error in his medical records  and this had now been corrected. He said hed told 
the GP he had a groin strain six years ago and there was nothing in his records prior to 
taking the policy which related to the hip. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Exeter had acted fairly. She said it 
should pay Mr Bs claim, plus interest and compensation for distress and inconvenience as 
Mr B had to use credit cards when he was unable to work, and his claim was declined. 
Exeter disagreed with our investigators view and in summary, made the following 
comments:
The investigator has given credibility to a single GP correction which labelled the 
problem as groin pain  this was done months after the event  and many 
contemporary records referencing hip pain have been ignored. 
Although the GP has said this was groin pain, this isnt medically credible as the 
GPs referral letter only mentions hip pain, normal management of groin pain doesnt 
include a plain x-ray, the medical terminology used in the GP records specifically 
refers to the range of movement of the hip  which is the classical examination when 
a GP is considering hip pathology and not groin pathology.
There are consistent records from two GPs, and the orthopaedic surgeon all 
referencing hip pain of several years duration (six years).
The X-ray changes suggest many years of joint deterioration.
The above records overwhelmingly point to this having been a hip complaint for 
many years.
The investigator seems to have made her decision on one piece of evidence 
supporting groin pain  this is a serious error in medico-legal practice. The total basis 
of medical law is contemporary records.
In this case, the contemporary records are wholly supporting of long-duration hip 
pain.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Exeter thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to disclose his hip and groin problems. 
Ive looked at the questions Mr B was asked when he bought the policy. Mr B was asked:
in the last 5 years have you had any of the followingJoint pain or arthritis or any 
symptoms, disease or disorder affecting the joints, ligaments, bones or muscles?
Mr B answered no to this question but Exeter says Mr B should have answered yes.
Exeter has said Mr Bs medical records demonstrate he had a six-year history of hip pain 
prior to taking his policy and so any hip related problems would be excluded. Mr B says his 
medical history doesnt refer to any hip problems and his GP had recorded inaccurate 
information, which he has had corrected.
The key medical evidence shows the following:
August 2014 - Mr B saw his GP about groin pain which had re-occurred. The GP advised 
Mr B that a referral would be made if the pain worsened. There is no evidence of any further 
action taken relating to this. 
Between September 2014  July 2018  there are no medical records available showing Mr 
B had attended his GP.
August 2018  Mr B saw his GP as he said he had been having some pain in his right hip. 
The GP arranged for an X-ray to be completed due to possible osteoarthritis.
September 2018  the X-ray showed secondary osteoarthritic changes. Mr B met with his 
GP on 25 September and this note says Mr B had ongoing hip pain for the past six years 
which had been getting progressively worse. The GP diagnosed osteoarthritis of the right hip and referred Mr B to an orthopaedic consultant. On 26 September, the GP completed a 
referral letter to the consultant which said gentleman who has been complaining of left hip 
pain for the past 6 years which has been getting progressively worst(sic).
October 2018  the orthopaedic consultant wrote back to the GP and said he had seen Mr 
B: ...who for approximately six years has been aware of deteriorating right hip function.
Mr B saw his GP twice in October 2018 and again in January 2019 in relation to his hip for 
pain relief.
April 2019  Mr B had a hip replacement. 
15 April 2019  Mr B had a physiotherapy appointment which records the history of his pain, 
with an onset of pain since August 2018. 
June 2019 - the GP wrote a letter to confirm that Mr Bs medical records were incorrect as 
Mr Bs consultation in September 2018 was for groin pain and not hip pain. 
Mr B has explained that when he saw his GP in September 2018, he had told him hed had a 
groin strain six years ago. And his GP had misunderstood this and had noted that hed had 
hip pain for six years. Exeter has pointed to the examination which took place on 25 
September 2018 and the referral made to the consultant on the following day which all refer 
to hip problems. In addition, the consultants letter also refers to a six-year history.
The medical evidence doesnt record any hip problems prior to August 2018. And the groin 
pain in 2014 didnt lead to any further appointments or referrals. In April 2019, following his 
hip replacement, Mr B reported to his physiotherapist that his hip pain had started in August 
2018.
Having considered the above, Im not persuaded that the medical history shows Mr B had 
hip problems for six years. I say this because Mr Bs GP has attempted to correct Mr Bs 
records in relation to the six-year history. Mr B has explained that the reference to six-years 
was in relation to a groin strain six years ago. And as Mr B had visited his GP in August 
2014 with groin pain which had re-occurred, Im persuaded by his explanation that the 
reference to six years was a groin strain six years prior to the appointment in September 
2018. In addition, Mr B reported to his physiotherapist that his hip pain had started in August 
2018. This was after his replacement and was based on Mr B relaying his pain/symptom 
history. Had Mr B had hip pain for six years, I would expect him to have reported this to the 
physiotherapist too.
In relation to the consultants letter, he refers to a deteriorating hip function for six years. But 
in the absence of any other entries recording the six-year history, its likely that this 
timeframe was taken from the GPs referral letter. 
Exeter has said the GPs correction letter isnt medically credible and the X-rays show that 
Mr B had osteoarthritis and his condition had deteriorated over a number of years. 
It is possible that the groin pain in 2014 and the groin strain prior to that were all related to 
the hip problems. But there is nothing in the medical evidence to suggest Mr B was aware of 
possible hip problems and so at the point he took the policy out in April 2018, he answered 
the questions accurately.
Exeter says Mr B should have declared his groin concerns. But Mr B says he thinks his groin 
pain in 2014 was down to a sports injury and no follow up was needed. And the groin strain had happened six years prior to 2018 which would be in 2012 and so this didnt need to be 
declared as part of his five-year medical history (he bought the policy in 2018). 
Having considered the above, I agree that the groin strain from 2012 didnt need to be 
declared. In addition, Im not persuaded that a sports injury without any formal diagnosis or 
further investigations should fall into the category of symptoms, disease or disorder 
affecting the joints, ligaments, bones or muscles. And so Mr B answered the question 
correctly with a no.
Based on all of the above, I think Mr B took reasonable care when answering this question 
and so there was no misrepresentation. This means, the actions taken by Exeter were unfair 
and not in line with CIDRA.   
Putting things right
As there was no misrepresentation, Exeter cannot take any action and should pay Mr Bs 
claim with 8% simple interest added for each payment from the date the payment should 
have been paid, to the date of settlement. In addition, it should pay Mr B £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of unfairly declining the claim.
In addition, if Exeter has cancelled the policy, it should reinstate this. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Exeter Friendly Society 
Limited to put things right as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman