DRN-3878525
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
T/A NFU Mutual dealt with and settled a claim under her home insurance policy following an 
escape of water.
What happened
Mrs S held a home insurance policy with NFU Mutual (NFU). She stated that on around 16 
August 2021 she discovered damage had been caused to her property as a result of an 
escape of water. Mrs S said her bathroom, which had fully tiled walls and flooring, was 
affected by the leak.
On discovering water damage, Mrs S instructed a plumber to attend her property, which Ill 
refer to here as S. S thought there was a leak on the cylinder and arranged for it to be 
replaced. But, on removing the cylinder, S discovered there was a further leak within the 
ducting in the bathroom. It wasnt able to determine the location of the leak. So, it advised 
Mrs S to contact her insurer.
When Mrs S contacted NFU to notify the claim it appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill call C 
in this decision, to inspect the damage sustained and ascertain the cause of the escape of 
water. An inspection of Mrs S property was arranged and undertaken by C on 19 August 
2021. When C visited Mrs S property it took photographs and, afterwards, it produced a 
written report. 
C informed NFU that the damage appeared to be confined to the shower room and cylinder 
cupboard on the first floor of Mrs S property. It thought the escape of water was likely to 
have come from a mains water pipe within the ducting in the shower room. But it 
recommended lifting the tiled floor to determine the precise location of the leak. 
Following further investigation, it was discovered that the escape of water had been caused 
by a leaking soil pipe connected to the shower room within Mrs S neighbours adjoining 
property. A schedule of work was composed and tenders on cost were invited. However, 
NFU said it wasnt possible to fully cost the extent of the damage until strip out works had 
commenced. So, over £8000 was allocated to the scope of works for contingencies and any 
changes to the provisional costings.
In March 2022, concerns were raised about the extent of the tiling that NFU was intending to 
cover under the claim. C had explained that the damaged area was the floor and tiling at the 
lower wall level. So, it was decided that tiles up to 1 meter in height would be covered fully, 
which was up to the height of a tiled border that separated lighter upper wall tiles from darker 
lower wall tiles.
 
NFU also offered to contribute 50% towards the cost of replacing tiles above a height of 1 
meter. It said these wall tiles hadnt sustained damage as a result of the escape of water.
Mrs S complained that NFUs offer to resolve her claim was unfair. She said all the tiles had 
had to be removed to investigate and remedy the damage as was required by the surveyor. 
And she stated that several investigative holes had been created  one of which was just 
under a metre from the ceiling around the shower control panel. She thought NFU should 
have covered the cost of retiling the entire bathroom. 
When NFU investigated Mrs S concerns it didnt uphold her complaint. In its final response 
letter, dated 20 July 2022, NFU stated that it had replaced all damaged wall and floor tiles. 
And it said that, in offering a 50% contribution towards the cost of replacing undamaged tiles, 
it had acted beyond the policy terms in Mrs S favour. So, it didnt think it had acted unfairly 
in the offer it had made to settle this claim.
As Mrs S wasnt happy with how NFU had dealt with her claim or complaint she complained 
to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding Mrs S complaint. They thought the offer made for the tiling was correct and they 
were persuaded that NFU had acted fairly. So, they didnt think it needed to take any further 
action in resolving the complaint. But Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view and asked 
for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint in rather less detail than theyve 
been presented. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Its a reflection of the informal service 
we provide. If I havent mentioned something, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with 
what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I 
consider a fair outcome will turn and not be side-tracked by matters which, although 
presented as material, are, in my opinion, peripheral. 
Mrs S has confirmed with our investigator that the disputed issue in relation to this complaint 
relates to NFUs decision not to cover the cost of replacing all bathroom wall tiles. So, Ill 
focus on, and limit my findings to, whether NFU acted fairly and reasonably regarding the 
offer it made to settle a claim in respect of the tiling.
When our service investigates a complaint about whether an insurer has handled a claim 
fairly, our service must consider the applicable policy terms and conditions. And we assess 
whether the insurer has applied those terms and conditions fairly and reasonably in the way 
its dealt with a claim. We dont have the power to direct in insurer to settle a claim in favour 
of a policyholder if that would involve something that didnt form part of the insurance 
contract when the policy was incepted. 
In carefully considering the terms of Mrs S policy, I can see it doesnt offer cover for any 
undamaged items. I say this because the policy doesnt include a matching sets clause. Its 
likely that Mrs S didnt request this type of cover when she incepted her policy with NFU  it 
typically isnt part of a standard home insurance policy and usually attracts an additional 
premium. 
In line with the policy terms that apply to the policy Mrs S purchased, NFU isnt obliged to 
replace anything that isnt damaged which is part of a matching set. And, as Ive already 
mentioned, we cant tell NFU to do something that would stray beyond the policy terms.In thinking about whether the tiling offer was fair, and in accordance with the policy terms, 
Ive also considered the photographs and written report C produced following its inspection 
of Mrs S property, which NFU relied on in handling and settling this claim. Our service thinks 
its right for an insurer to instruct a loss adjuster with expertise to inspect a customers 
property to assist it in determining the cause of damage. Here NFU appointed C to do that 
and I cant fairly find it acted unfairly in doing so. 
Cs report confirms that Mrs S bathroom had a fully tiled finish to its floor and walls. The 
photographs C took of the bathroom during its inspection show that there are 3 different 
colours of tiles on the wall. The upper and lower level of the tiled wall is separated by a tiled 
border at just above sink height. From photographs the upper wall tiles seem to start a meter 
up from the floor level. The upper wall tiles are a much lighter colour (cream) when 
compared to the tiles used on the lower part of the wall, which are a terracotta colour.
Mrs S has argued that C required the removal of all wall tiles. But its report doesnt mention 
this. I think that would have been made clear in its report had it been Cs view  particularly 
as this would have had significant cost implications and affected the cost authority that NFU 
would need to provide those undertaking work on its behalf. 
Cs report confirms that the escape of water caused damage to the floor and walls. But it 
doesnt state that all the wall tiles sustained damage. Theres no available imaging that 
demonstrates that the upper wall tiles were damaged as a result of the escape of water. And 
NFU is firm in its view that the damaged area was confined to the floor tiles and a small 
number of tiles at the lower wall level.
In the absence of photographs showing damage to the tiling of the upper wall, its difficult to 
understand how this area sustained damage from the escape of water to the extent that full 
retiling was required. And, as the upper wall tiles were a different colour to those below the 
tiled border, theres a natural break between both colours. So, in the overall circumstances, I 
cant fairly conclude theres evidence showing that all wall tiles needed to be replaced.
NFU replaced all damaged floor tiles and all wall tiles below 1 meter in height. It explained 
that where an escape of water involves floor level water damage, the general industry 
recommendation is to remove building material up to a height of between 0.5-1 meter above 
the location of the leak  here at floor level. 
In replacing all wall tiles within the upper limit of whats considered to be recognised industry 
practice with an escape of water claim like this, I think the approach taken by NFU was 
reasonable and fair. Im persuaded it discharged its duty under Mrs S policy to fully cover 
the cost of the damaged floor and lower wall tiles.
In relation to the undamaged tiles, these comprised approximately 50% of the total wall tiled 
area. As explained, they were a different colour to the lower wall tiles. In considering claims 
for undamaged items, our service would usually take the view that a consumer should be 
paid 50% of the cost of replacing any undamaged items where they are part of a set in order 
to reflect that a consumer has suffered a loss of match. We wouldnt be persuaded there 
was a loss of match where undamaged wall tiles were different in colour to damaged wall 
tiles.
Here, NFU offered to pay 50% towards the cost of supplying and installing tiles above 1 
meter in height. It explained that, while there was no cover under the policy for undamaged 
tiles, it had adopted a cautious approach based on previous decisions from our service 
where wed told insurers to pay a 50% contribution for undamaged matching tiles. And it said 
it wanted to ensure its settlement offer was in line with previous FOS decisions regarding 
claims involving undamaged matching tiles. As Ive already explained, Mrs S policy with NFU doesnt include cover for matching sets. 
Had NFU not offered to contribute towards the cost of replacing the undamaged tiles, I 
wouldnt have directed it do so as part of this decision. This is because the policy terms dont 
require it to and, as Ive already outlined, Im not persuaded the upper wall tiles sustained 
water damage or matched the lower wall tiles. Im therefore not going to direct NFU to 
change the offer it made here.
I appreciate that Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. I can see its been stressful for 
her and Im sure she thought the claim was going to be resolved with minimal fuss. But, 
based on the available evidence, Im satisfied NFU acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
dealt with this claim  it agreed to fully cover the cost of replacing damaged tiles and, in 
offering to contribute towards the cost of replacing undamaged tiles, departed from the policy 
terms in Mrs S favour. 
Im not persuaded there are any grounds for me to fairly and reasonably require NFU to 
change its original settlement offer made to Mrs S. So, Im not upholding this complaint or 
directing NFU to take any further action to resolve the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman