DRN-4018214
The complaint
Mr W says the advice given and the arrangements made by LEBC, an appointed 
representative (AR) of TenetConnect Limited (TCL), to transfer from his defined benefit (DB) 
pension scheme and to take tax-free cash and a joint life enhanced annuity with Scottish 
Widows, was unsuitable.
Mr W is represented by Spencer Churchill Law Ltd (SCL).
What happened
Mr W says that he was introduced to LEBCs services by his former employer. As LEBC was 
acting as AR of TCL, the latter is the principal firm and responsible for the formers acts and 
omissions. As such, to keep things simple, Ill just refer to TCL throughout the rest of my 
decision.
TCL gathered information from Mr W about his circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. 
It issued a suitability report dated 10 October 2014. His priorities and objectives were 
recorded in the following terms:
From our discussion, you explained that you wish to access your pension in order to utilise 
the maximum tax-free cash [TFC] to pay off your outstanding debts. Your monthly outgoings 
are predominately made up of loan, mortgage and credit card repayments, therefore by 
using the lump sum to reduce these outstanding balances you will put less financial strain on 
your current income.
The maximum TFC will be used to clear some of your loans and credit cards. You 
confirmed that the X credit card and Y credit card carry the higher levels of interest and once 
these are cleared this will reduce your outgoings by almost £250 per month. In addition, you 
would also have the facility to clear your [bank] loan although you are paying the minimum 
payment of £50 per month which seems to cover interest only and is not reducing the debt at 
present.
As your pension will start and provide you with income this can also be used to repay the 
remaining loans before your selected retirement age of 66.
In our discussions of the various options available to you for taking pension benefits, we 
agreed to consider two types of annuity to compare against the benefits being offered by 
[your DB] pension scheme. We agreed to consider a level annuity, with no annual increases, 
alongside an annuity linked to changes in the retail prices index, capped at 5% pa. You 
understand that a 'level' annuity will not provide any protection from the future eroding 
effects of inflation, and in real terms, the 'buying power' of your income will be eroded over 
time.
You require the addition of a spouse's pension in order to provide an income to your wife in 
the event you predecease her. You have confirmed that [Mrs W] has limited provisions in her 
own name and you feel it is vital to provide a spouse's pension in the event of your early 
death. You understand that this will result in you receiving a lower pension income.
The 5-year guarantee is equally important to you as you wish to prevent a sudden drop in 
income in the event of your early demise.
At the time of TCLs advice Mr W was 55 and working as a support worker earning around 
£14,000 a year. Its recorded that his wife was earning around £30,000 a year. Their monthly 
household outgoings were around £2,500-£3,000. No figure was derived for net disposable 
income, although commentary indicated this was used to further pay down debts.
Mr W was said to have £16,000 outstanding on his credit cards. His wife had an outstanding 
loan of £9,000 and a credit card debt of £2,500. Mr and Mrs Ws home was worth £220,000 
with mortgages of around £150,000.
Mr W had suffered a heart attack in 2008 that required surgery and he was still under the 
care of a cardiologist and taking medication. Mrs W was in good health and neither of them 
smoked.
Mr W was a member of a DB scheme with a former employer and was entitled to deferred 
benefits. Hed accrued 9-years of service between 1994 and 2003. The scheme had a 
normal retirement date (NRD) of 65. TCL estimated the value of his annual pension at that 
point wouldve been about £5,800, or £4,000 a year if he took TFC of around £27,000. His 
DB scheme had a transfer value of nearly £71,000.
At the time, Mr W also had a small existing annuity (worth around £300 per year) and was 
entitled to a state pension. He had no other provision. Other than a state pension, his wife 
had no retirement provision. Mr W was said to expect to fully retire when he reached 66. No 
information was captured about what level of income he required in retirement.
TCLs recommendations were recorded in the following terms:
In making my recommendations, it is important to firstly consider the impact of taking your 
pension now or whether leaving your pension untouched altogether could be the better 
option for you, given your circumstances and objectives we discussed.
You stated that you wanted to consider accessing your pension now to provide an income 
and lump sum to repay your outstanding debts and liabilities.
Considering the options available to you, my advice at the current time is to transfer your 
pension and purchase an annuity.
I recommend a Joint life Level annuity with a 100% spouse's pension and a 5 year 
guarantee. I recommend the guaranteed fixed annuity over the index-linked annuity due to 
the higher income being offered and the length of time it would potentially take you to recoup 
the level annuity income under the index-linked option
I recommend that you purchase a level annuity as you wish to receive a guaranteed and 
maximised annuity income. You would benefit more from the increased income in the early 
years of the contract as your main objective is to reduce your outstanding debts.
It is important that you understand that a level income will not be protected from the future 
eroding effects of inflation and that the 'buying power' of your income will be eroded over 
time.
I further recommend you take the full tax free lump sum from the policy of £17,687.25. 
I recommend you include a 100% spouse's pension, as this will provide a required level of 
income to your wife should you predecease them. I think you would benefit more from the 
additional spouse's benefit because your wife has no pension provisions in her own name. 
This will reduce the income by circa £260 per month but will provide a higher income for your 
wife should you predecease her. I have also taken into account your health.I recommend you include a 5 year guarantee period, as this is low cost and will ensure an 
income is payable to your beneficiaries in the event of your early demise
Mr W accepted TCLs recommendations and the transfer of his DB pension funds took place 
in November 2014. He received the TFC lump sum and an annuity of £2,575.
In November 2021, SCL on behalf of Mr W raised a number of concerns about what had 
happened in 2014. It said hed been provided with negligent advice to transfer his 
safeguarded benefits. It said TCL hadnt complied with regulations about giving advice on 
DB pensions. And it said TCLs recommendations had resulted in financial detriment to him.
TCL sent Mr W its final response on 6 January 2022. It didnt uphold his complaint. Firstly it 
challenged his ability to bring his case because it said he was too late for it to be considered. 
It then went on to rebut all of the complaint points hed raised, concluding that its advice had 
been suitable. It also concluded in the following terms:
I also think it is extremely likely that had LEBC recommended he remained within his 
existing scheme, your client would have accessed his benefits within the scheme regardless, 
which would have left him at a financial disadvantage. This is based on his immediate and 
urgent need for cash to pay as much debt as possible and ameliorate his bleak financial 
outlook.
Mr W disagreed and brought his case to this Service. An Investigator found his complaint 
was one this Service could consider. She went on to consider the merits of his case and 
upheld it, concluding that TCLs advice had been unsuitable.
TCL didnt engage with the arguments the Investigator had made about the merits of the 
case, although presumably those points it made in its final response letter remained its 
position. It asked for an ombudsmans decision on the jurisdiction of Mr Ws complaint.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ws case 
was passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision in February 2023. Im grateful to TCL for its response, which Ive considered 
carefully in arriving at my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I consider Mr Ws case is within the jurisdiction of this Service. Further, based on the 
evidence Ive seen Im upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
JurisdictionOur service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) the power to say what complaints we can 
and cant consider. The FCA has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of its 
Handbook (also known as DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within 
specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
More than:
-six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
-three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;unless:
In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or 
DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr W is worried hes lost out because of the advice he received from TCL to transfer his DB 
pension, taking TFC and purchasing an annuity with the proceeds.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.
Mr Ws case was raised with a complaint management company in September 2019 (SCL 
took on his case some months later). His complaint was lodged with TCL in November 2021. 
It issued a final response to him in January 2022. As the advice complained about happened 
in 2014, his case is out of time on the six-year limb of the test.
In respect of the three-year test. I need to decide when Mr W became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that he had a cause to complain. And having established 
that date, determine whether he brought his complaint within three years of it.
In making its case to time bar Mr W, TCL asserts the warnings it gave him in 2014 were 
sufficient to put him on notice of the issues he now complains about, for example that his 
annuity payments wouldnt increase in line with inflation. In its response to the Investigators 
view on jurisdiction it said:
It is evident that there were numerous warnings that would have made the client aware in 
2014 that his annuity payments would not increase in line with inflation
Mr Ws heart condition meant he qualified for an enhanced annuity and he was provided 
with a comprehensive report which gave several options. This enabled him to make an 
informed choice. He had significant debt with no way of repaying this and this position would 
have added to his health issues. The transfer gave him better benefits at the time due to the 
enhanced annuity, but it was evident he was clearly warned that the lack of indexation would 
mean this met his objectives initially but would gradually be affected by inflationFurthermore, Mr W would have seen his income remaining level every month as it was paid 
into his bank account. It is unreasonable that he would not have been aware his monthly 
benefit was failing to keep pace with inflation.
In responding to my provisional decision on jurisdiction TCL said:
Our opinion differs in that the Ombudsman states he would have been aware of the risks 
but this is different to having cause to complain, yet his complaint centres around him not 
being told of any risks, which he clearly was. It was evident from the Suitability Report that 
he would receive higher benefits initially but this would eventually diminish over time so the 
client should reasonably have been aware of this at the point of advice.
Firstly, I find Mr Ws complaint was made in much broader terms than just his assertion that 
he hadnt been told about the risks of transferring his pension, to encompass wider matters 
about the suitability of TCLs advice and issues about the process it followed.
I do accept that the suitability report TCL produced for Mr W did give him various warnings, 
including that his annuity wouldnt benefit from indexation unlike his DB pension. For 
example it said:
By transferring your pension benefit away from the Scheme, you are fully giving up your 
right to a future pension, including future pension increases, from the Scheme. The same 
applies to any spouse's, dependant's or dependent children's pensions payable from the 
Scheme and the increases to those pensions. By choosing a single life pension you are 
agreeing that there will be no spouse's pension if you should marry in future and no benefits 
will be paid to your other dependants.
TCL essentially argues Mr W must reasonably have known hed be worse off in retirement 
than if he stayed with his DB scheme  and there can be no argument to say he didnt 
become aware of a cause for complaint at this time. I disagree.
Mr W knew he was transferring his pension to a new provider, and with that accepting 
certain risks that had been explained to him. But thats different, in my view, to being 
reasonably aware he had cause for complaint. I dont think its likely Mr W would have gone 
ahead with the 2014 transfer if hed have thought (or likely thought) from the very beginning 
that the advice process was flawed in some way.
My view here is strengthened when I consider key elements of what Mr W was being told in 
2014. TCL recommend he take TFC and an annuity. Its suitability report noted that if he took 
benefits from the DB scheme immediately, he would be entitled to TFC of £13,107 and an 
annual pension of £1,967. Whereas, what it recommended would deliver TFC of £17,687 
and an annuity with Scottish Widows of £2,575. So, as far as Mr W was concerned by 
transferring hed receive more benefits.
TCL maintains Mr W shouldve noticed that the value of his benefits were being eroded year 
on year. And that his monthly benefit wouldve been failing to keep pace with rising living 
costs.
I dont find this a compelling argument for three reasons. Firstly Mr Ws annuity was a 
relatively small element of his overall income. Secondly, over the period 2014 to 2019, Bank 
of England data showed inflation running at an average of 1.5%. To keep pace with this his 
annuity wouldve needed to have increased to £2,777  about £200 over five years. So, I 
dont think this wouldve been as noticeable as it suggests. And finally, Mr W wasnt provided 
with information after 2014 which showed him a comparison of his annuity benefits with what 
he wouldve been receiving from his former DB scheme.I think Mr W became aware of cause for complaint in September 2019 when he first 
responded to an advert by a claims management company about potential issues with DB 
transfers. SCL raised his complaint with TCL in November 2021 and this was responded to 
in January 2022. 
So, Mr Ws complaint is duly made and this Service can consider it. Ill now go on to look into 
the merits of his case.
The merits of the case
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ws case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by TCL for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like TCL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
At the time of the advice TCL gave Mr W, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from DB schemes:
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewhether to transfera firm should start by assuming that a transferwill not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, TCL was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr W to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr W a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr W understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, TCL had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the DB scheme and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr W on what to do.Did TCL adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think TCL met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are a number of documents relating to TCLs transaction with Mr W that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find and the suitability report.
I think its of note that Mr Ws interest in transferring his pension benefits seems to have 
been sparked by his former employer. It wasnt something he was thinking about until it 
introduced him to TCLs services.
Mr Ws recorded objectives when he took advice in 2014 appear to have been fairly narrow 
and largely focussed on releasing benefits from his pension to pay down some of his debts. I 
think its a fundamental problem for TCL that from the outset of the advice process and 
throughout, retirement planning seems to have played second fiddle to Mr W accessing 
benefits.
Mr W has confirmed to this Service that he was struggling financially in 2014. He had 
recently lost his job and had started new employment on a salary which was half of what he 
was accustomed to earning. He had two mortgages to pay and some credit card debt and he 
was left with no surplus income at the end of the month. So, the option of accessing the tax-
free sum of nearly £18,000 was attractive to him.
However, I think TCL stretches the actuality when it said in its final response to Mr W that he 
was in immediate and urgent need of funds. I say this because its fact-find recorded that 
incomings to the household exceeded outgoings. And that any surplus was to be used to 
pay down debt. Further in its suitability report, in recommending the annuity it noted:
Although the additional income is no immediate requirement, you may benefit from a 
maximised level income in order to help clear your current debt situation.
In responding to my provisional decision TCL says:
The customer has confirmed he was struggling financially in 2014 having lost his job, taken 
new employment on half of salary, had 2 mortgages and credit card debt. Was left with no 
surplus income every month and accessing benefits was attractive to him. The client file 
evidences he was making minimum repayments and his debt would be increasing as a result 
of this. Whilst we acknowledge there is no evidence the customer was defaulting on his debt 
he was clearly struggling to keep his head above water and given his financial position it 
would be unreasonable to suggest he would have been able to consolidate his debt, 
particularly on a lower income than hed been on previously.
While Mr W faced financial difficulties in 2014, as TCL accepts, theres no evidence he was 
defaulting on his payments, or at risk of doing so. This wouldve been captured in the fact-
find had it been the case. There are many options available to people who are having short-
term difficulties managing their finances, for example rescheduling, consolidation, payment 
holidays and so on. 
The problem for TCL in now asserting it would be unreasonable to suggest Mr W wouldnt 
have been able to consolidate his debt on a lower income is that theres no evidence it did 
the work to demonstrate that was the case at the time. Further, there were other alternatives 
available to him such as restructuring and rescheduling with his existing credit providers, 
which were also not explored. In any event, as established, he was meeting his debt 
payments.While on the face of it, accessing his pension benefits appeared a good match with Mr Ws 
immediate priorities, I dont think trading off his long-term retirement needs against short-
term financial pressures was appropriate given his circumstances. I note that one of the 
main drivers of his financial predicament was resolved around six months after the advice 
when he secured a new job and a significant increase in his pay.
The regulators position on DB transfers at the time was clear - the starting position was for 
TCL to have presumed that such a transaction wouldnt be suitable. Based on the available 
evidence, I dont think it reached a threshold that made its recommendation to Mr W to 
transfer away from his DB scheme safe.
TCL needed to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr W about what was in his 
best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to 
provide for an income in retirement. And when a transfer and early access to benefits are 
recommended, there need to be compelling reasons. In terms of Mr Ws stated objectives, I 
find these didnt provide a sufficiently strong rationale for TCL recommending he transfer 
from his DB scheme.
Leaving Mr Ws objective to access his benefits early to one side, Ive thought about whether 
there were any other strong reasons for him to proceed with the transfer. The cash 
equivalent transfer value of about £71,000 wasnt particularly attractive. It represented 
around 27 times the annual pension hed accrued up until 2014, without allowing for any 
indexation from that point.
In addition, as the suitability report noted, the transfer value had been reduced by the 
trustees by around £3,000 because the DB schemes assets were at that point insufficient to 
pay full values. Further, TCL recorded that the cost of replacing his existing benefits with an 
insurer would be about £3,300 more than was being provided by the scheme.
We know Mr W had a cautious attitude to risk. TCL defined this in the following terms:
You want the amount of income you receive to be guaranteed and for the amount not to 
reduce in the future. You understand that this may mean your income in the future will be 
less in real terms as it will not be guaranteed to be protected against the future effects of 
inflation.
I think TCL also needed to have assessed his capacity for loss. Given what we know about 
his and Mrs Ws other pension provision, their assets, savings and investments, its 
reasonable to deduce he had no capacity for loss in terms of his retirement planning.
Although Mr W was using his final salary fund to buy an annuity, which meant he wasnt 
being exposed to investment risk in the future, he was taking on the risk of being locked into 
a contract for life from the age of 55, for perhaps nearly 30 years. A contract that didnt 
provide for any increases to offset the effect of rising prices. So he was taking a significant 
risk given his circumstances.
On the other hand, his DB scheme provided for annual indexation on one-third of his 
pension of 3% a year and on the other two-thirds of up to 5%. These were risk-free 
adjustments to be borne by the scheme.
In its final response to Mr W, TCL acknowledged that the annuity it had recommended to Mr 
W would only have provided a higher income for him, compared to what he wouldve 
received had he taken benefits early from his DB pension, for about ten years. After this the 
indexation of his DB scheme wouldve meant those benefits exceeded his annuity.Another weakness in TCLs position is that theres no evidence that it got to the bottom of 
what income Mr W required in retirement. This question was fundamental to him being able 
to make fully formed decisions about what he should do about his deferred DB scheme. I 
note the fact-find indicated Mr Ws intention was to continue working until the age of 66. The 
NRD of his DB scheme was 65.
Had Mr W remained in his DB scheme until the NRD (another 10 years), TCL estimated he 
wouldve been entitled to an annual pension of around £5,800. In the event of his death after 
retirement his wife wouldve received a pension from 2024 worth £2,900 and index linked 
thereafter. This is significantly more than the annuity put in place. Alternatively, he couldve 
taken a tax-free lump sum of about £27,000 and a reduced pension of around £4,000 a year.
It was TCLs role to discern what Mr Ws wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. While he mayve been 
focussed on his immediate financial pressures, which weve established we not at that point 
a critical matter, its role was to position the discussion around his income needs in 
retirement. It had to use due care and skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in 
his best interests. I dont think it demonstrably met these obligations.
TCL says that Mr Ws health was a significant factor in its recommendations. Hed had a 
heart attack in 2008, was still under the consultant and was taking medication. It says it 
secured Mr W an enhanced annuity to reflect his position and this was a joint policy 
providing his wife with access to 100% of the benefits in the event of his passing.
TCL relied on Mr Ws health condition in rebutting his complaint. For example it said:
The Fact find noted that Mr W had suffered a heart attack in 2008 and had been on 
medication since. It is therefore reasonable to conclude he had a reduced life expectancy.
Whilst it is true that your client has lost out on inflationary protection, I don't think this was 
an over-riding concern given his life expectancy was lower than average and due to his 
immediate need for a higher lump sum in the short term.
In responding to my provisional decision TCL also said:
Our main concern is that the Ombudsman feels there is no evidence the customers life 
expectancy would be limited because of his health, which was a major part of the advice at 
the time. The customer acknowledged to FOS that he chose 100% spouses benefit on the 
annuity and is aware the annuity was enhanced, yet he had no concerns about his health.
The client file confirms he had a serious heart attack in 2008, was still under a consultant 
and was on medication. We are not in possession of the actuarial calculations made by the 
annuity provider nor the medical report obtained by the Ombudsman, but would argue that 
this is a key issue and this information should be obtained before a decision is made. We 
would also refer to the two websites below that would suggest an Enhanced Annuity would 
not be granted if the product provider did not anticipate a lower life expectancy. Scottish 
Widows obviously expected the customers life expectancy to be reduced. Taking a 100% 
spouse benefit is unusual and would also suggest the customer was concerned about his 
health and wanted to provide for his wife knowing he had a reduced life expectancy.
The Investigator spoke to Mr W about his health. He said he had no concerns at the time of 
the advice. Hed suffered a heart attack in 2008 but since then his lifestyle and health had 
improved.
Although Ive seen a medical report on file for Mr W, it doesnt indicate whether his heart 
attack was likely to have a significant impact on his life expectancy. And if so, to what extent. 
These things needed to have been assessed rigorously at the time of the advice. While I can see that Mr W secured an enhanced annuity with Scottish Widows, Ive not seen 
what assumptions were made which underpinned that contract. TCL hasnt produced such in 
support of its case.
Without this evidence it isnt reasonable to assume Mr Ws life expectancy, as assessed at 
the time of the advice in 2014, had been substantially impacted by his heart attack in 2008, 
especially given the subsequent management of his health including medications. And 
certainly not to the extent that wouldve made a clear case for transfer from his DB scheme 
in its own right. As TCL accepted, even if hed taken his pension early from his occupational 
pension, that wouldve started to exceed his annuity income after around ten years.
Ive concluded that TCLs recommendation for Mr W to transfer his pension was mainly 
driven by his financial position. And Ive already set out why I think that was an unsafe 
foundation from which to work.
TCL has said it gave Mr W all the necessary risk warnings indicating he was required to take 
responsibility for the decision to transfer. While I think he wouldve understood those 
warnings, disclosure of risks doesnt of itself make the advice suitable.
In responding to Mr Ws complaint, TCL told SCL:
I also think it is extremely likely that had LEBC recommended he remained within his 
existing scheme, your client would have accessed his benefits within the scheme regardless, 
which would have left him at a financial disadvantage. This is based on his immediate and 
urgent need for cash to pay as much debt as possible and ameliorate his bleak financial 
outlook.
I understand the points being made here by TCL. But TCL didnt recommend that Mr W 
shouldnt transfer his pension. So its on the backfoot here. He followed its advice. However 
strong his motivation was to move his pension provision, that was certainly reinforced by its 
actions, which wouldve also given him reassurance it was the right thing to do.
Ultimately I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me Mr W wouldve ignored advice 
not to proceed with the transfer. Nor to ignore fully formed advice about better ways to 
manage his short-term debt pressures, avoiding his desire to make use of funds which were 
intended for his households long term retirement income.
I think TCL shouldve provided Mr W with unequivocal advice not to proceed with the transfer 
from his DB scheme to take TFC and buy an annuity. I say this because it failed to reach the 
required threshold to demonstrate based on contemporary evidence that such a transaction 
was clearly in his best interests. Instead, it recommended that his benefits be transferred 
and he was exposed to unnecessary risk.
Ive concluded its more likely than not, had TCL given Mr W appropriate advice, he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the transfer from his DB scheme, taking TFC and purchasing an 
annuity. Its unusual for someone to seek professional advice and then go against the 
recommendations received.
I dont think the recommendation by TCL for Mr W to transfer from his DB scheme could 
sensibly be regarded as fair to him. As such I think it failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements placed on it when providing him with such advice and making the 
arrangements.So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint against TCL and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. TenetConnect Limited should pay Mr W the amount produced 
by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that TenetConnect Limited pays Mr W the balance. This 
recommendation is not part of my determination or award. TCL doesnt have to do what I 
recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document -
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance-https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. As he hasnt 
responded on this point, in accordance with the Investigators view, and my subsequent 
provisional decision, Ive assumed he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into 
effect to settle his complaint.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.
I consider Mr W wouldve remained in his DB scheme. TenetConnect Limited should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Mr W has had the benefits of TFC and a stream of income from his enhanced annuity. 
These facts will need to be taken into account in the redress. As will any evidence about the 
impact of his heart attack on his longevity.
TenetConnect Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr 
Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
TenetConnect Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes TCL to pay Mr W.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TenetConnect Limited deducts income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. It should give Mr W a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If there hasnt been full and final settlement of the complaint by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect TenetConnect Limited to carry out a calculation in line 
with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. I now require TenetConnect 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman