DRN-2906449
The complaint
Mr Ks complained (through his father, Mr S) that National Savings & Investments (NS&I) 
didnt deal properly with his investment in index linked savings certificates when it matured  
meaning he lost a significant amount of interest.
What happened
Mr K is a minor.  So hes authorised his father to make a complaint on his behalf.  To 
differentiate them, Ill call Mr Ks father Mr S.
In 2011, Mr S invested £15,000 in NS&I savings certificates on Mr Ks behalf.  He made an 
identical investment in his own name, and in the names of his wife and other child.  The 
investment was for a five year term.  Interest was to be index linked to the Retail Price Index, 
plus 0.5% compound interest.
The investments matured in 2016.  Mr S says his wife received a letter setting out the 
options for the money  which was rolled over into a new five year certificate.  He says Mr K 
didnt get a letter.  But he (Mr S) assumed that, as Mr K had an identical product, the same 
thing would happen to the investment in his name.
In early 2021, Mr S found out that Mr Ks investment hadnt been rolled over into a new 
product.  Rather, when it had matured in 2016, it was moved to NS&Is Residual Account  
where it earned a much lower rate of interest.
Mr S complained on Mr Ks behalf that NS&I had delayed paying out the proceeds of the 
account.  And he said Mr K had lost £1,918.44 because NS&I hadnt rolled the investment 
over into a new product  as theyd done with his and his wifes.  Mr S asked NS&I to pay Mr 
K the lost interest and pay compensation for his own time and effort in pursuing the 
complaint.
NS&I investigated and wrote to Mr S with their findings.  They explained that, once a child 
was seven years old, they became responsible for their own investment.  So, when it 
matured in 2016, theyd written to Mr K to tell them this and to explain some changes theyd 
made to savings certificates.  The key change from Mr Ks point of view was that NS&I 
changed the minimum age at which someone could hold savings certificates to 16  so Mr K 
wasnt eligible for a new account.
NS&I said the letter also told Mr K that, if they didnt hear from him within 30 days, his 
investment would be moved to the residual account.  They didnt hear from Mr K  so thats 
what they did.  They said they werent responsible for Mr K not receiving the letter.
While NS&I didnt uphold the complaint Mr S had brought on Mr Ks behalf, they did accept 
theyd delayed repaying Mr Ks investment and that had inconvenienced Mr S.  They paid  
Mr S £50 for this.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response and brought the complaint to us.  He told us he 
didnt think it was appropriate to ask someone of Mr Ks age to make financial decisions of 
this nature.  And he said he thought the only fair outcome would be for NS&I to pay the 
interest he thought Mr K shouldve received.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that NS&I didnt need to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.  He noted that NS&Is terms and conditions were 
clear that, once a child reaches seven, they will be the person from whom NS&I will take 
instructions.  And he noted those terms changed in 2012 and were sent to Mr K in 2016 with 
the maturity letter.
He was satisfied that the letter was correctly addressed, even though Mr K didnt receive it.  
And he said Mr Ss wife had received a maturity letter which contained the new terms  so 
he couldve seen from that thered been a change.  
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr S has made on Mr Ks behalf.  Ill 
explain why.
I understand Mr S doesnt think its right that NS&I treated Mr K as their customer and 
expected someone of his age to make their own financial decisions.  But that was NS&Is 
policy at the time.  And its not my role to comment on a businesss policy  its to decide 
whether that business has dealt fairly with the particular customer making the complaint.  
And I can only decide NS&I should do something more to resolve this complaint if I dont 
think theyve done that.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions in place in 2011, when the original investment was 
made.  Theres a section headed Who may purchase and hold Certificates which says:
20   Individuals Individuals of at least 7 years old may purchase and hold Certificates:
(a) in their own name; or
(b) jointly with one or more other individuals.
Any other person may also purchase Certificates on your behalf and in your name.
21   Children Children under 7 years of age cannot purchase Certificates.  Certificates may 
be purchased for a child under 7 years of age to be held in the name of the child.
This makes it clear that NS&I will treat those under seven differently from older children  
even though theyll still be children.  By 2016, Mr K was over seven.  So Im satisfied that, 
when NS&I wrote to him about the maturity of the investment in 2016, they did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
I appreciate Mr S says Mr K never got the 2016 maturity letter.  But I cant say that NS&Is 
fault.  
Ive seen a copy of the letter that was sent.  Although its addressed to Mr K, its clear NS&I 
recognise theyre writing to a child, as the letter suggests Mr K show the letter to a parent or 
carer.  It explains that, because he was under 16, Mr K couldnt hold savings certificates 
after the maturity date and sets out his options.  And it says that, if Mr K doesnt reply, the 
money would be moved to NS&Is Residual Account  which had a low interest rate.The letter was correctly addressed.  Mr S hasnt said he told NS&I there was any issue with 
receiving mail.  And his wife received a letter about the maturity of the investment in her 
name.  So I cant say there was anything that should have alerted NS&I that Mr K hadnt 
received the letter.  
And in the absence of such evidence, I think NS&I were entitled to move Mr Ks investment 
to the Residual Account.  Thats what the letter said theyd do.  And, as they dealt with the 
investment as they said they would, I dont think they need to do any more to resolve Mr Ks 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about National Savings 
and Investments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman