DRN-4238381
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim she made under her travel insurance 
policy.
Miss H has been represented by Mrs H for this complaint. For ease of reference, Ive only 
referred to Miss H in this decision. However, all references to Miss H are intended to include 
all information and submissions provided by Mrs H in this matter too.
What happened
Miss H purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, cover her for various pre-departure 
and post-departure risks for a trip worldwide (excluding the USA). The trip was booked from 
29 October 2019 to 2 December 2019  with the travel insurance policy being active for this 
time.
Later, Miss H decided to extend her stay abroad. A further single trip travel insurance policy 
appears to have been provided, to cover worldwide travel (excluding the USA) for the dates 
2 December 2019, to 25 September 2020. 
Miss H decided to extend her stay again. She has explained she contacted the travel 
company she purchased the trip and travel insurance through, and it extended her stay and 
insurance cover again. Miss H then being due to return home on 27 October 2020. Miss H 
has said she didnt receive any further documentation from the travel insurance company  
and shortly after it went into liquidation.
On 5 September 2020 Miss H received an email from the airline providing her return flight, 
telling her the flight she was due to travel home on, on 27 October 2020 was cancelled. 
Miss H rebooked the flight with the same airline  for 30 October 2020. But Miss H has said 
the flight was cancelled for operational reasons/lack of passengers. Miss H had to therefore 
purchase another flight, with a different airline, to get home. This meant she had paid for two 
return flights.
Miss H said the original airline the flight was booked with didnt provide her with a refund for 
the flight shed paid them for  despite her trying to obtain this. So, she made a claim under 
her travel insurance policy for her loss.
Miss H said there were delays in the progression of her claim. So, she raised a complaint 
about this. And following what she said were further delays, raised an additional complaint 
about the time taken to deal with her claim. This service began looking into this additional 
complaint. 
AWP offered and paid Miss H £100 compensation for these further delays. And Miss H 
accepted that resolved the issue of delays. 
However, AWP also decided on Miss Hs claim. It declined the claim, saying there was no 
cover under the terms and conditions of the policy for the situation Miss H found herself in. 
And it said that the policy didnt provide cover for the withdrawal of a service by an airline.
As Miss H was dissatisfied with this, she asked this service to consider this complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed the matter and decided AWP had acted fairly in declining Miss Hs 
claim. They said that Miss Hs policy only appeared to be in place until 25 September 2020. 
And so, any claims after this date wouldnt be covered, as there was no policy in place.
Our investigator noted that AWP hadnt raised that when responding to Miss Hs claim. But 
had considered the terms and conditions of the policy anyway. Our investigator said AWP 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim under those terms and conditions in any event  
because there wasnt an event that covered the loss Miss H had suffered. 
Miss H didnt agree. She said she had paid the airline for a flight she didnt get and hadnt 
received a refund from the airline. Miss H didnt think it was fair she had paid for a flight twice 
and felt her insurance policy should respond.
Because Miss H didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require AWP P&C SA 
to do anything more.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Miss H. But Ive explained the reasons for my 
decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether AWP acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Miss Hs claim.
Ive also considered Miss Hs policy documentation, to see what cover it provided her with. 
On doing so, Ive seen a policy schedule detailing Miss H had cover for various risks 
between 29 October 2019 and 2 December 2019, and another detailing cover Miss H had 
between 2 December 2019 and 25 September 2020.
Miss H is claiming for an incident that happened at the end of October 2020. I havent seen a 
policy schedule to confirm that Miss Hs insurance cover had been extended, or a new 
insurance policy purchased, to cover her for this time. And Miss H told this service she 
wasnt provided with any additional documentation when she extended her trip to the end of 
October 2020. So, based on what Ive seen, it doesnt look like Miss H had any travel 
insurance policy to respond to her loss at this time. If there was no travel insurance policy in 
place, then it would be reasonable for AWP to decline a claim  as there would be nothing 
for it to deal with the claim under.
But, as our investigator has said, AWP didnt raise this with Miss H when declining her claim. 
And hasnt raised it with this service since. Instead, AWP said the policy didnt provide cover 
for the airline withdrawing the aircraft from service. And so, it couldnt pay the claim.
Given this, Ive also considered whether, if Miss Hs policy was indeed running at the time of 
the loss, AWP has acted fairly in saying the loss wasnt covered.And Im satisfied AWP did act fairly in saying the loss wasnt covered anyway. Insurance 
policies dont generally cover every eventuality. Instead, for a loss to be covered under an 
insurance policy, the loss needs to have happened because of something listed in the policy 
documentation as covered. If the reason for the loss isnt something listed as covered, then 
there is no cover for the situation, and the policy wont respond.
Ive looked at the policy wording supplied both by Miss H when she took out her initial 
policies, as well as the wording supplied by AWP for the policies Miss H had. And there isnt 
any section within these that provide cover for losses caused due to an airline deciding to 
cancel a flight for operational reasons  such as an insufficient number of passengers on the 
flight. So, I dont think AWP did anything wrong in declining the claim, even if cover was in 
place. The policy doesnt cover the situation. As I dont think AWP did anything wrong here, 
Im not requiring it to do anything differently in respect of this claim.
Miss H has said she paid twice for a flight  having paid the original airline, and not got the 
service she paid for. And I do sympathise with this. But I can only consider AWPs actions in 
deciding the claim outcome  not that of the airline, or the travel provider the trip was booked 
through. So, this point doesnt change the outcome on this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require AWP P&C SA to do 
anything more in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman