DRN-2521583
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
handled his claim under a motor insurance policy. Hes unhappy with the issues he 
experienced in arranging a windscreen replacement and doesnt feel the compensation 
offered goes far enough. 
Reference to LV includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its unfortunate the windscreen couldnt be replaced during the appointment Mr T had 
set time aside for. But the mix up with the glass size didnt cause him to spend 
additional time at the garage and he was able to return to work as originally planned. 
Even if things had gone the way they should have, the appointment would still have 
gone ahead, and Mr T would have taken time away from work as planned. As no 
additional time away from work was needed, Im not persuaded Mr T has shown he 
suffered a financial loss. 
Its not my role to punish businesses for mistakes. My role is to consider the specific 
complaint before me and decide a fair outcome. This includes considering the impact 
on the consumer if I decide the business has done something wrong. 
Theres no dispute LV made a mistake. But I can also see it took steps to minimise 
the impact on Mr T. On identifying the mix up with the glass, it drove Mr T home so 
he could pick up his second car and get to work on time. The windscreen 
replacement was carried out later that day and LV dropped Mr Ts car at his home 
the same evening. 
I think Mr T was caused some inconvenience as a result of the windscreen 
replacement not being completed during the scheduled appointment. Having 
considered the circumstances of this complaint, I consider the £25 LV has offered 
him to be a fair reflection of the inconvenience he was put to. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ts frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint as Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company has already fairly resolved it. I require it to pay Mr T £25 if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman