DRN-2079555
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. hasnt fully settled a claim she made on her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss A bought an annual travel insurance policy online at the end of October, 2017, via a 
comparison website. Whilst abroad in June 2018, Miss A fell ill and was admitted to hospital 
for a few days. She made a claim on her policy to cover her medical expenses.
Mapfre only offered partial cover for the medical expenses Miss A incurred. It said she 
shouldve declared thrombocytopaenia during the application because the condition is listed 
in her medical notes. And it wouldve increased the premium price of the policy.
Mapfre said it is entitled to retrospectively screen any claimant in order to see what premium 
they shouldve paid for the policy had they declared all their existing medical conditions - 
regardless of what causes the need for the treatment abroad. And they can then settle any 
claim on a proportional basis.
Miss A thinks Mapfre should have settled her claim in full, not just a proportion so she 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and he didnt think that Mapfre had treated 
Miss A unfairly. He listened to the call between Mapfre and Miss A but he didnt feel this 
changed things because everyone was in agreement that the non-disclosure was 
unintentional. But he felt the medical evidence was clear in showing Miss A had been 
diagnosed with thrombocytopenia and this should have been disclosed.
Miss A didnt agree. She explained she hadnt been diagnosed with thrombocytopenia. So 
its been passed to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre says Miss A incorrectly answered medical questions when she brought her policy.
This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles 
to the circumstances of Miss As claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that of a 
reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the 
insurer were.
Miss A was asked about any pre-existing health conditions:
In the last two years have you or any person insured on this policy suffered from or received 
any form of medical advice, medical treatment or medication for.. And it goes on to 
provide a list of conditions which includes any blood circulatory condition including, but not 
limited to, high blood pressure, hypertension or high cholesterol?
It also asks at any time in the past 12 months, have you or any person insured on this policy 
been referred to or seen by a hospital doctor or surgeon (other than an A&E Doctor), or 
needed in-patient treatment in hospital?
Mapfre says, in response to these questions, Miss A should have told them about 
thrombocytopenia (a blood condition). In deciding whether I think Miss A took reasonable 
care in answering this question, Ive reviewed her medical records and Ive also considered 
what she has told us about her medical history.
Miss As medical records show that thrombocytopenia is listed under her medical history 
from July 2017. Ive looked through the notes from Miss As medical appointments and can 
see a GP note entry dated 19 July 2017 recorded as thrombocytopenia. And the GP 
comments on Miss As low blood cell count.
In addition, consultant physician Dr Muir refers to Miss A being concerned about 
thrombocytopenia in his notes from 29 August 2017. So Miss A had also discussed the 
condition with a hospital doctor in the few months prior to the policy application.
As such I dont think it is unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude Miss A had received a 
diagnosis for thrombocytopenia because that is what the medical evidence says. So I dont 
think Mapfre have been unfair in expecting Miss A to have disclosed this condition.
I appreciate Miss A did contact the business to discuss her medical history. So Ive listened 
to the call and Miss A does explain she has symptoms and has been under neurological 
investigation  but confirms she hasnt received any diagnosis. Mapfre explained Miss A 
wont have cover for anything related for those symptoms. But thrombocytopenia or low 
platelets is not mentioned at all. And Miss A goes on to answer no in response to pre- 
existing health conditions on her application form.
I accept that Miss A has said she hasnt received any treatment for thrombocytopenia and 
her medical notes refer to Miss A suffering from a mild form of the condition. And Mapfre 
accept that the non-disclosure of this condition wasnt deliberate. But nonetheless, the 
medical evidence does suggest that the presence of thrombocytopenia was confirmed.
So, having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to 
conclude Miss A should have disclosed information about her low blood platelets count when 
asked about pre-existing medical conditions during the application. Therefore, although 
unintentional, I think Miss A made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA  in relation 
to thrombocytopenia.
As Miss A made a qualifying misrepresentation, Mapfre is entitled to apply the relevant
 
remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if 
the insurer would still have entered into the contract but would have charged a higher premium, then the insurer is entitled to reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on the 
claim.
Miss A paid £57.83 for her insurance policy. Mapfre has provided evidence to show the 
premium it would have charged is £69.28. This means Mis A has paid 84% of the premium 
she should have so, in line with the remedy set out under CIDRA, Mapfre should pay 84% of 
her claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A but Im not upholding this complaint because Im satisfied 
Mapfre have acted fairly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman