DRN-1851020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) have designated an 
unfair value to their property and mishandled their re-mortgage application.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It does not fall within the remit of this service to look into the accuracy of a valuation, 
or the competence of the associated surveyor, as their actions fall outside of our 
jurisdiction. But I can consider whether Natwest acted reasonably in relying on the 
valuation when making their decision about Mr and Mrs H's mortgage application. 
 
I can see that the valuation was carried out by an independent surveyor that was 
qualified through the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). I can also see 
that the surveyor has declared I certify that the property described in this report has 
been inspected by me and that the valuation is a fair indication of the current value 
for mortgage purposes.
 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H dispute the accuracy and validity of the valuation 
carried out by Legal and General. But the valuation was reconsidered by the 
surveyors in light of the further information Mr and Mrs H had provided, and they 
determined that it didnt change their original valuation. Given that the surveyors were 
appropriately qualified to make such a determination  and given that there is not 
enough to persuade me that the valuation was patently wrong (such as a 
contradictory valuation from another RICS qualified surveyor)  I dont think Natwest 
had any reason to doubt the assessment of their surveyors.
 
I understand why Mr and Mrs H may want to see how and what information the 
surveyors used to reach their property valuation figure. However, the valuation was 
instructed by Natwest for the sole purpose of considering whether to grant the 
mortgage on the security of the property. There is no obligation on them or the 
surveyors to provide such details, as Mr and Mrs H were not the party instructing the 
surveyors in this instance. So I do not think they have acted unreasonably by 
declining to provide such information.  
 
Having considered the available evidence, I do not consider there to have been any 
unreasonable or avoidable delays. But I appreciate that Natwest did provide incorrect 
information as they initially told Mr and Mrs H that they could appeal the valuation 
figure by providing comparable property valuations  when in fact they no longer 
accepted comparable figures in these circumstances. However, they have since 
apologised for this oversight and offered £100 compensation, which I consider to be a fair and reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
error. And even though Natwest no longer accept comparable values, they provided 
these to the surveyors for comment in any event. So I do not think they have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in these circumstances. 
 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman