DRN-2808141
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has handled her 
mortgage account.
What happened
Mrs L was in arrears on her mortgage.
The mortgage term ended in May 2019 and at that time she still owed around £1,400.
She paid £100 a month starting from June 2019 and her payments stopped in February 
2020, so there is still a balance outstanding.
Mrs L complained that Halifax was sending her arrears letters with different amounts owing 
on them. She says this caused her distress, and she didnt know what she owed.
Halifax responded to the complaint in November 2019. In its letter explained that the letters 
would automatically generate with incorrect information due to the fact the mortgage term 
had ended, but that it was manually amending the account. It said if Mrs L put a formal 
arrangement in place for the £100 a month then that would stop the letters and other 
contact.
Our investigator looked at things. She said that Halifax was manually adjusting the account 
and that if Mrs L put an arrangement in place then the arrears letters (with the incorrect 
information) would stop. She didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong, albeit she could 
see there could be confusion. She said the term had ended and Mrs L had chosen not to put 
a formal arrangement in place to repay the remaining balance which would have solved the 
issue.
Mrs L didnt agree, saying Halifax had issued her a letter giving a lower balance and under 
the circumstances she thinks Halifax should have honoured that amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I cant order Halifax 
to change its systems to stop the arrears letters automatically being generated with the 
incorrect information on. It has explained why that is happening and that explanation is 
reasonable. It also gave Mrs L a straightforward way to resolve the issue, in that she simply 
needed to contact it to make her £100 monthly payments a formal payment arrangement.
I can fully understand why Mrs L has been confused by the arrears statements. But Halifax 
has explained they are wrong, and why, so it seems Mrs L could have safely ignored the 
figures on them based on the explanation shed been given. If Mrs L had kept paying the 
£100 a month the mortgage would have been paid off by now; instead her payments 
stopped in February 2020. Mrs L has said she didnt stop the payments and doesnt know 
why it happened. This was a standing order, which means Halifax had no power to stop it. 
All I can consider here is the actions of Halifax, and as Halifax had no power to stop the 
standing order then I cant hold it liable for the fact Mrs Ls mortgage is still outstanding.
Its not possible for us to carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an account history. Its open 
to Mrs L to ask a suitably qualified independent accountant to do that for her. That would 
have to be at her expense, though if an error were found to her detriment she could include 
a claim for the costs of finding it in any complaint that followed.
Mrs L has said Halifax should have honoured a lower amount it mentioned, and/or that it 
should clear whatever is left outstanding for her. There are no grounds for me to order 
Halifax to do either of those. This is money that Mrs L fairly owes her mortgage lender, and 
therefore she needs to repay it. If Halifax had sent Mrs L a letter stating a much higher figure 
was outstanding, then Im sure shed be very unhappy if we said that amount should be 
honoured and so she needed to pay more than was due. That also works the other way, 
which means it would be unfair for me to say Halifax must accept a lower amount than is 
due.
Having considered everything, whilst it is clear the arrears letters dont give a true position of 
the account, Halifax has provided an explanation of why that is the case and it has kept an 
accurate record of what is actually owed by undertaking manual calculations. Mrs L could 
have stopped the letters that were causing her such distress by setting the amount she was 
paying as a formal payment arrangement, and I cant hold Halifax liable for her choice not to 
do so. The outstanding amount is owed to Halifax by Mrs L, and there are no grounds for me 
to order Halifax to either waive or vary that amount.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman