DRN-2977963
The complaint
Mr B complains about actions of Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), 
trading as Audi Financial Services, when he withdrew from a finance agreement.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Im persuaded that Mr B would have made the necessary payments if hed been given bank 
details to make the payment when he first called VWFS to withdraw on 29 July 2020. I say 
that because when Mr B was given the correct payment method he made payment in full 
within a matter of days.
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience that Mr B has experienced as a result of not 
being provided with the correct bank details. Hes had to contact VWFS more frequently; has 
been charged interest on the debt and the debt hasnt been cleared promptly from his 
records.
But VWFS waived the interest when Mr B brought the problem to their attention and theyve 
offered to pay him £100 compensation.
Putting things right
Whilst I understand Mr B thinks the matter warrants more compensation I think the 
investigators suggestion that VWFS pay £150 is most reasonable as Ive not seen evidence 
that Mr B suffered financially as a result of the delays.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
pay Mr B £150, less anything theyve already paid, to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced; 
provide Mr B with confirmation the agreement has been closed with a nil balance;
provide Mr B with confirmation that the HPI marker has been removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman