DRN-4341845
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc wouldnt remove a marker about him at CIFAS.
What happened
Mr A explains that he found out that the marker had been added after his account was 
closed. This has prevented him opening an account elsewhere. He didnt know that the 
money sent to his account in December 2020 had been fraudulently obtained and wants the 
marker to be removed.
TSB said it hadnt made a mistake and wouldnt be removing the marker. It said that his 
account was closed as he hadnt provided proof of entitlement for the money sent to him. 
TSB maintained that it had correctly applied the CIFAS marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A had said that he was 
in contact with someone on social media. He agreed to receive money into his TSB account 
and then convert this to crypto currency. Mr A said he had been assured the money had 
come from their personal investments and they would share 30% of the profits with him. He 
said he may have used a small amount of his own money but didnt consider this to be an 
investment. So, she wasnt clear how he expected to profit to such an extent. Mr A said that 
the person on social media had blocked him and that he then realised what had really 
happened. 
Our adjudicator said that the money was quickly transferred out to another account in his 
name. There was nothing to show that Mr A didnt ultimately receive these funds. Mr A said 
he had been in contact then with TSB about his account being blocked. But TSB said that it 
didnt receive any response to its attempts to contact Mr A by phone and letter about his 
account. She thought he would have responded if he had been the victim here. She 
appreciated the time that had since past, and that Mr A said he didnt have any evidence to 
support what happened. She thought it more likely that not that he had been complicit in 
what happened. And that it was reasonable for TSB to close his account and add the 
marker.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he didnt benefit 
from what happened. He is unable to retrieve any messages as the sender had blocked their 
online account. Mr A said he didnt receive any letters or calls from TSB. He emphasised the 
stress that this had caused him. And he mentioned that a different financial business had 
removed the marker in similar circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, TSB Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr A was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Im satisfied that payments made into Mr As account at this time were reported as being 
fraudulently obtained. And Ive seen a copy of a letter TSB wrote to Mr A about this and a 
case note saying it had tried to call him.
So, while I appreciate the time that has passed I think Mr A did have the opportunity to 
provide any evidence he had at the time. And it seems from what he says that he realised 
his account had been blocked and he says he didnt receive any share of the funds. Its not 
impossible that Mr A was contacted on social media in the way he says. But I dont see how 
he could reasonably expect to make such a return himself. And why his bank account would 
need to be used. The amounts involved were well over £10,000 and were all sent on quickly 
to convert to crypto currency and there is no evidence that the money was received by 
anyone else. He was in control of what happened to this money. Im only looking at what 
happened here and not what another financial business may have done. Having balanced 
what hes said and the evidence I find it most likely he was complicit in what happened and 
not an unwitting participant.
TSB says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether TSB was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence 
it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And that 
any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events, Im satisfied that TSB had sufficient evidence for 
the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the 
following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to TSB at the 
time.
- He authorised the transfer of the funds and so was in control of who had the benefit 
of this money.- TSB had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds based on 
the evidence it had.
Having made that finding I consider it was reasonable for TSB to close his account in line 
with its terms and conditions. I understand what Mr A says about the impact of the marker 
for him, but Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require TSB to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman