DRN-3200208
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited wont allow the death 
benefits payable from the policy to be paid in a tax efficient way such as drawdown. 
What happened
Sadly Mr M passed away in October 2019. He was aged 75 and hadnt taken benefits from 
the policy in question. The policy in question was a retirement annuity contract (RAC) and 
had a value of over £420,000.
Utmost wrote to the executor of the estate (Mr Ms son) and set out the death benefit 
payment options available. This was either a lump sum which would be taxed at 45% or an 
annuity.
Mr Ms son was unhappy with this as the estate wishes to share the money out amongst the 
grandchildren but the options available werent suitable for this  as there was a heavy tax 
burden that could be avoided by setting up a drawdown policy.
Utmost said this wasnt possible. Our investigator looked into matters and explained that the 
terms of the policy didnt allow for this and he didnt think Utmost had done anything wrong.
Mr Ms son said hed been advised that other providers had been able to do this and Utmost 
were bound to acting in its customers best interests. And in forcing a big tax bill upon the 
family it wasnt doing so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not summarised and will not comment on all the communications I have reviewed, and I 
hope the parties will understand I mean no discourtesy by this. I would like to assure all 
parties that I have considered everything that has been provided to this service with care 
and attention. But reflecting the services informal nature I have focused my decision on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Whilst I can appreciate why Mr Ms son would like to select a tax efficient method of 
receiving the death benefits, I have to decide if Utmost have done anything wrong in not 
offering this.
Utmost has provided the policy document which set out the terms of the policy. The terms 
didnt allow for a drawdown policy to be paid on death. I appreciate when these were written, 
drawdown didnt exist so it couldnt have done so in any event. But Utmost has confirmed it 
hasnt updated this product to include drawdown as a method of receiving death benefits. 
And this isnt uncommon for providers with legacy products. There is nothing in legislation 
that compels them to do so, it is at their discretion. So I think Utmost has complied with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr Ms sons advisers have said that it thinks RACs were also subject to rules set out by 
HMRC and it is those rules we need to consider. Ive looked at the HMRC manual and I can 
see nothing that supports Mr Ms sons position here. And nothing to say that Utmost havent 
administered the RAC in-line with those rules.
Utmost has explained that it cannot offer drawdown because when Mr M passed away the 
funds were liquidated and no longer invested. To effect a drawdown policy it wouldve 
needed to be consecutive  i.e straight from the RAC to drawdown. So instead it can only 
pay the sum value  which hasnt changed as it hasnt been invested. The other option is to 
use that sum value to backdate an annuity to the date of death. Utmost says this is in-line 
with HMRC rules. 
Mr Ms sons advisers say it is aware of other providers who have offered a drawdown facility 
on death benefits and it cannot understand why Utmost cannot transfer the value to a 
provider. But Utmost has explained that once a policy is no longer in force it cannot then be 
used to start a drawdown policy and its policy is to disinvest plans at the date of death. I 
know that other providers have offered drawdown policies on death but that doesnt mean 
Utmost can and should on this particular policy and in these circumstances.
Ultimately, I can see no evidence to suggest Utmost should offer drawdown on this policy. 
And I dont think it is being unfair or unreasonable in offering death benefits in the way it has. 
If Utmost wasnt offering a payment method that was set out in the policy terms, there would 
be a case to say it had done something wrong. But this isnt the case here as the option Mr 
Ms estate wishes to select isnt something offered under the policy terms. And Utmost has 
confirmed it wont and cannot offer this in the circumstances.
I have sympathy with Mr Ms estate here but providers arent required to pay death benefits 
in a method chosen by beneficiaries and or an estate. There will be many different reasons 
as to why some policies will pay out in one way and others not. Utmost has explained why it 
cant and will not pay the benefits as drawdown. And as Ive said the terms of the policy dont 
allow for this.
If providers choose to provide death benefits making use of the newer options under pension 
freedoms/legislation that didnt exist at the time of the policy commencement, this is at their 
discretion  the legislation was enabling and not compulsory. 
Utmosts decision is across its RAC plans and not specific to Mr Ms policy, so I dont think it 
has acted unfairly here nor do I think it is in breach of treating customers fairly. As Ive said 
death benefits are specific to particular products and providers  there will be many different 
approaches across the marketplace. Its common for there to be restrictions and so I dont 
think Utmost is treating customers unfairly by not offering death benefits to be paid by any 
method an estate wishes to use.
I appreciate Utmost isnt offering the option Mr Ms estate would like but for the reasons 
explained, I dont think this amounts to unfair treatment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Simon HollingsheadOmbudsman