DRN-4219574
The complaint
Mr G complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No. 9)
(Asset Link) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Asset Link took over legal responsibility for the loan from another business, Future Finance. 
So in this decision I will refer to the business only as Asset Link. 
In September 2019 Asset Link approved Mr G for a loan by way of a fixed sum loan 
agreement for £9,250. The loan was to help fund tuition fees and living costs. The loan was 
for a total term of 121 months but was broken down so payments for the first 37 months 
would be set at £5 per month followed by 84 months at £326.29 per month.
Mr G says the loan was irresponsibly lent. He says Asset Link didnt complete reasonable
and proportionate checks before approving the loan. Mr G also complains about the validity
of the assessment that Asset Link completed in working out his future earnings when
conducting its affordability assessment. He says he cant afford to the ongoing loan 
repayments and its affecting his health. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that
Asset Link had likely completed proportionate checks, including using predicted future 
income, before lending to Mr G. 
Mr G disagreed with this assessment. He maintained that Asset Link had acted unfairly 
when initially approving the loan. He also said he hadnt completed the course and was now 
struggling to repay the remainder of the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Bearing in mind the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice I will focus on 
two issues in particular when looking at Mr Gs complaint. These are:
- Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so did it make a fair 
decision to land? and
- Did Asset Link act unreasonably in any other way?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so did it make a fair decision to 
lend?
Asset Link needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr G. The
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Asset Link lent required it to carry out
reasonable and proportionate checks.
These checks needed to assess Mr Gs ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably 
over its term without causing him financial difficulties. There isnt a set list of checks a lender
needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, taking into account things like the type,
amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers circumstances.
Under the relevant regulations at the time, Asset Link was entitled to rely on the expected 
future income for Mr G when making this assessment. This was on the basis that this 
assessment was appropriate (bearing in mind what these regulations required in terms of 
proportionality) and there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in relation to any initial 
payments.
Mr G says at the time of the application he was struggling financially. He says Asset Link 
didnt take this into proper consideration when approving the loan.
Asset Link says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, including using statistical 
information based on his course of study. This also included consideration of Mr Gs future 
income and career. It also says it completed a credit search on Mr G before approving the 
loan.
The credit report Mr G sent us showed he had a few existing credit commitments. This 
included a credit card and a bank account with an overdraft facility. From what Ive seen 
there werent any negative markers on his account, such as arrears, defaulting on credit or 
county court judgments. Mr G sent us evidence about some credit card arrears but that 
hadnt shown up on the credit checks Ive seen. But I dont think that having a moderate level 
of arrears debt to be that uncommon for someone Mr Gs situation. Mr G was after all a 
student and not working full time. So Im not persuaded that had Asset Link been aware of 
this it would necessarily have been enough to prevent it from lending to him.
Asset Link considered that the £5 per month repayments that Mr G would have to pay whilst 
still in study to be affordable. The bank statements Mr G sent us also show this to be 
affordable in my view. Ive noted that Mr G was making use of his overdraft and had other 
expenditure. Having an overdraft in place wouldnt be unusual for Mr Gs circumstances as a 
student in study. Having noted his level of expenditure, I cant see that having to find an 
additional £5 per month would have had a significant impact on his overall financial 
circumstances. 
Asset Link then went on to calculate Mr Gs future expected income. It says based on theinformation it had at the time that Mr G would be earning an annual income of around 
£22,500 six months after starting work. This would work out to a net monthly take home 
income of around £1,900 per month
Asset Link also calculated Mr Gs expected outgoings, including his increased payments for
this loan. This included £300 for credit repayments and around £900 for living costs. Asset 
Link therefore calculated that that Mr G would have disposable income of around £630 each 
month from which hed be able to meet his loan repayments affordably.
Ive considered Asset Links arguments; and in this instance I am in general agreement.
Mr G was borrowing a reasonably substantial amount in relation to his future projected 
income. So the checks that Asset Link had to carry out needed to be proportionate to take 
account of this. As such Im satisfied proportionate checks in this instance wouldve included
obtaining a reasonable understanding of Mr Gs circumstances.
As part of its checks, Asset Link also considered Mr Gs likely future income. Asset Link has
told us about the various data sources it used to help predict this. For the sake of clarity 
Asset Link says it used information from third parties (including the educational institutions 
which have been applied for) to gather the likely salary. It says it used this information plus 
Mr Gs known credit commitments to conduct its future affordability assessment.
Ive thought about all this information and in this instance, Im satisfied its prediction of 
Mr Gs affordability was proportionate. As Ive said, based on Mr Gs university and field of 
study, it predicted his likely income after graduation to be around £22,500 per year. 
Considering what Asset Link knew about Mr Gs planned course of study, this figure seems 
reasonable. It may be different if the salary predicted was unreasonably high, but Im 
satisfied that the projected salary was in line with most graduate starting salaries, and 
therefore Im satisfied it was reasonable to rely on it.
Mr G says it wasnt fair for Asset Link to rely on his potential earnings when completing the
initial affordability assessment, especially given that he didnt go on to complete the course 
hed told them about but instead went into paid employment. But I consider Asset Link was 
entitled to rely on the future predicted earnings of Mr G when completing its assessment. 
Ultimately it has demonstrated that it has come to a reasonable figure (based on different 
sources of information); and it was exercising reasonable forbearance measures (such as by 
setting low, nominal payments during Mr Gs the study period) until such time that Mr G 
ought reasonably to have achieved the predicted income. Im therefore satisfied that 
Asset Link has acted fairly and in line with the relevant rules at the point it made the initial 
lending decision.
It follows that Im also satisfied that Asset Link completed reasonable and proportionate
checks before approving the loan. So Ive concluded that it made a fair decision to lend.
The information which Asset Link gathered at the time demonstrated that Mr G would likely
be able to afford the repayments during and after his studies had been completed. It had a
reasonable prediction of what the future income and outgoings would be; and these
demonstrated the loan was likely affordable.
Asset Link was entitled to rely on the information which Mr G provided and there doesnt
appear to be any contradictory information which suggested it shouldnt. So, Im satisfied it
made a fair decision to lend.
Ive also seen that Mr G considers that his father, who agreed to be his guarantor, didnt 
have the indemnity agreement he was signing properly explained to him and that there were would have been a language difficulty. But from what Ive seen the relevant information was 
provided to both Mr G and his father at the time and it was open to each of them to seek 
independent advice if they wished to. Without being notified of any particular concerns, I 
wouldnt expect Asset Link to have taken any further steps to explain the agreements before 
they were signed. 
Did Asset Link act unfairly in any other way?
Mr G has told us he struggling to meet his repayments under the loan. Ive seen that 
Asset Link has asked Mr G to get in touch in order to gain a better understanding of his 
circumstances, and in particular his financial circumstances. At one point Mr G was asked to 
provide his income and expenditure details but as far as I can see he didnt do that. And Ive 
not seen anything else that shows or suggests that Asset Link has acted unfairly in its 
handling of Mr Gs account.
Overall, Im satisfied that Asset Link acted fairly when approving Mr G for this loan. It follows 
that I do not uphold this complaint.
One final point Id like to mention is Mr Gs concern about the payments having increased 
from £326.29 per month to £335.45. I see this change dates back to November 2022. 
Although I cant see whether Mr G was given specific notice of this change, such an increase 
 which appears to be due to a slight change in the rate of interest - is provided for in the 
agreement, in which Asset Link reserves the right to vary the amount of the repayment. Mr G 
can if he wishes seek confirmation about this from Asset Link 
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr G. I say this being very much 
aware of the concern and worry the loan and making this complaint has caused him and his 
own difficult health situation. I would of course like to remind Asset Link of its ongoing 
responsibilities to work with Mr G should he be struggling to meet repayments
now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman