DRN-4045878
The complaint
Mr F complained about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan, in 2012. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Perspective (North East) Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer mainly to Perspective.
What happened
At the time, Mr F was a deferred member of his OPS, having been employed until 2008. The 
trustees of the DB scheme wrote to members like Mr F in 2012 explaining that the scheme 
was looking at ways to manage its long-term pension commitments. 
The company had also decided to offer enhanced terms to members who chose to transfer 
their benefits to a personal pension scheme. Members of the DB scheme were also being 
offered regulated financial advice, the cost of which was being met by Mr Fs former 
employer. Perspective was contracted to provide that advice.
Information gathered about Mr Fs circumstances were broadly as follows:
Mr F was around 44 years old, married and with two financially dependent children. 
He was in good health.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the DB pension was £51,710 and the 
normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. However, a cash enhancement of £27,040 was 
being offered if he transferred away together with a recently added second 
enhancement of another 10% on top; this was another £7,875. 
So, in total, Mr F was being offer an enhanced CETV of £86,625 (an uplift of 
£34,915).
Mr Fs options were to keep the pension where it was and effectively do nothing. 
Alternatively, he could transfer away to a new personal pension arrangement and 
invest both the CETV and the enhancements in the new personal plan. He could also 
transfer away, but only invest the CETV in a personal plan. In this case the 
enhancement would be taken as cash and used by Mr F as he saw fit.
Perspective set out its advice in a suitability letter (or report) on 22 May 2012. This advised 
Mr F to not transfer out of his deferred DB scheme and into a personal plan. It provided a 
number of reasons why he ought not to do this, which basically amounted to losing valuable 
retirement benefits associated with his DB scheme and also being worse off in retirement. 
Nevertheless, we know Mr F considered the suitability letter and came to his own 
conclusions about what hed like to do. It was recorded that he wanted to access the cash 
enhancements and that hed like to go ahead with the transfer. He transferred the £51,710 
into a new personal plan in July 2012 with a large and well-known pension provider and it 
seems he was paid the remainder to use as he pleased.
Mr F first complained to Perspective about its advice, in 2022. A number of specific 
complaint points were made which Ill refer to shortly. In response, Perspective said it hadnt 
done anything wrong and was acting in Mr Fs best interests. It pointed out that it actually 
hadnt recommended that he should transfer and that it was Mr F himself who insisted. It 
said this meant he was treated as an insistent client, an industry term to describe where a 
client goes against the recommendation of their financial adviser. 
Mr F then referred his case to our Service in March 2022. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. They thought Mr F had been clear about 
his objectives and that he understood the advice hed been given. They considered that Mr F 
was indeed an insistent client and that Perspective shouldnt be asked to offer any redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the final responses and also Mr Fs response to our investigators view. 
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Perspective's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Perspective should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook, which required 
Perspective to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Perspective to provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. So, Perspectives recommendation had to be clear and Mr F had to 
have understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Ive used all this information to consider whether I should uphold Mr Fs complaint. Im sorry 
to disappoint him, but Im not upholding it.
Specific points of complaint
I accept, of course, that 2012 is a long time ago and that recollections of the events will not 
be easy. 
However, I also think its fair and relevant to point out that Mr Fs recollections directly 
conflict with some of the documented and reliable evidence we have from the time of the 
advice. Ive noted, for example, that in bringing his complaint now, Mr F said he felt 
pressured to transfer his pension at the time of the advice. He said he was told by the 
adviser that to delay the transfer would be unwise as the status of the firm he was working 
for was uncertain. It was said Mr F also believed that because of the firms uncertainty, he 
had to transfer.
Additionally, Mr F said the adviser failed to provide him with adequate options with regards 
to his retirement and had these been explored, he would not have transferred away from his 
final salary pension scheme. He said he was unaware of the guarantees held within the 
scheme as these were not disclosed sufficiently by the adviser.
However, Im afraid I cant agree with these points of complaint because the evidence Ive 
seen simply points, quite strongly, the other way. It seems that Mr F had his own financial 
adviser as well as Perspective which had been appointed to deal with the pension transfer 
issue and the enhancements the DB scheme was offering.
As Ive said, Perspective issued its suitability letter on 22 May 2012. And I can see that 
despite Mr F recalling hed been pressured to transfer, the letter clearly, and in my view 
strongly, advises him not to transfer. It starts with Mr F having four options, the first of which 
is to keep the pension where it was and effectively do nothing. It then goes on to say that 
he can also transfer to other types of pension schemes if he wants to and it sets out the 
enhancements he is being offered.
Perspective then referred to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the average 
annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the time of 
advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. The critical 
yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a transferred 
personal pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth for a transfer-out to 
become financially viable. 
In Mr Fs situation, the letter explained that the critical yield required to match the benefits of 
the DB scheme he was in at the time, at his NRA of 65, was 9.71% and 9.97% (if he was to 
opt for a reduced pension and take tax-free cash when he eventually retired). Perspective 
said, these are high figures and mean that you would need to take a significant degree of 
investment risk in order to achieve a higher pension in retirement. 
It went on to say, we recommend you do not transfer to a personal arrangement for the 
following reasons. Perspective then listed four main reasons which supported the 
recommendation not to transfer:
The critical yields were too high and so his pension wouldnt be able to grow enough outside the DB scheme to make transferring worthwhile.
The benefits of his existing scheme contained promises to pay him a certain amount 
at retirement  and there would be no such promise if he transferred away.
If Mr F transferred and took the enhancements as cash, this would be reducing what 
he had left for his retirement.
If transferring hed be giving up a guaranteed income and this wouldnt be available if 
he transferred because the funds would be based on investment performance.
So, Im afraid I dont agree that Mr F was told that it would be unwise not to transfer or that 
he ought to transfer for any reason. Nor do I think he wasnt aware hed be losing any 
guarantees. Ive found the evidence very persuasive that the suitability letter said the 
opposite of these things and these were all set out in a way I think Mr F would have 
understood. I also think that Mr F would have viewed this as an important document and so 
one hed want to read very carefully. Mr F also had access to his own financial adviser.
What happened after this?
I think its reasonable to say that Mr F probably took some time to digest what was being 
said and I think he knew the advice was strongly against leaving his DB scheme. Firms like 
Perspective are required to keep records of their dealings with pension transfer clients and 
Ive seen evidence Mr F contacted Perspective by telephone on 25 June 2012, over a month 
after the initial advice.
Notes of the telephone Conversation with Mr F show the following conversation with a 
Perspective member of staff:
[Mr F] rang re his recent transfer recommendation letter.
He advised me that he had read the report and understands we are recommending 
that he does not transfer. However, he wishes to transfer in any event.
He understands that he will be worse off in retirement.
He understands that he is taking all the risk by transferring.
He understands if he leaves his benefits with [the DB scheme] he will be taking no 
risk and will be better off in retirement.
He is adamant that he wants to access the cash offer irrespective of the implications.
I advised him that if that is the case, he needs to write to us confirming this and we 
will process the business as an insistent client.
Later the same day Mr F himself emailed the adviser saying, Evening [adviser]. Following 
our telephone conversation regarding the acceptance of a cash lump sum as well as transfer 
value I wish to accept. Please therefore start the proceedings. Please note I have read and 
understood the recommendations. Should you need anything else please advise soonest 
Thanks and regards  [Mr F].
Whilst we have no recording of the call, the email clearly references the earlier call that had 
taken place. It is in Mr Fs own hand, as it were, and it appears unprompted by anything 
Perspective asked him to do. The email references also the original suitability letter and the recommendations contained therein. And so, the evidence here is that Mr F fully understood 
hed been advised not to transfer; it also shows hed taken time to consider the suitability 
letter over several weeks and it also shows that Mr F himself was, by 25 June 2012, driving 
the narrative for the pension to be transferred and the cash enhancements released.
Were the contacts to end there, I think Id still be satisfied that Mr F understood what he was 
doing and that he was proposing something that directly conflicted with the regulated 
financial advice he had been given by Perspective. However, Ive noted that Perspective 
decided to warn Mr F again. That this warning was on 12 July 2012 was a good thing, in my 
view. This is because the whole process appeared unhurried and accordingly, there was a 
much-reduced risk of Mr F being carried away in the moment. So, after a period of over 
three more weeks elapsing Perspective wrote to Mr F again and included an updated 
suitability letter. All the warnings about transferring were repeated in this correspondence. 
The letter opened with a clear and unambiguous reminder that the advice was not to transfer 
away from his DB scheme. Towards the end, it closed with this:
Important Risk Warnings
I would reiterate, your final benefits will be dependent on investment performance 
and annuity rates when you retire, both of which are out of our control. By 
transferring from the [DB scheme], you are giving up the final salary pension 
scheme guarantees.
What has Mr F said about this now?
Mr F has brought his complaint to us with the help of a professional representative. Ive 
taken the view, therefore, that there was a comprehensive discussion between him and his 
representative about his points of complaint. And so, I think its reasonable to say that the 
representative should have known the points that might be relevant and important to a 
complaint of this nature.
When their investigation was completed, our own investigator here issued their view, and 
this was broadly along the same lines as Ive set out above. Ive looked at the 
representatives response to the view. However, most points are no more than repeated 
comments about Mr F being told by Perspective that he really ought to transfer and he 
couldnt reasonably leave the pension where it was. As Ive said, I dont agree this to be right 
because the evidence points very strongly indeed the other way. And Im afraid I find it 
extremely unlikely that being told he should not transfer his pension  could somehow be 
interpreted that he should.
I think this is also true of the loss of guarantees which Mr F still said hadnt been explained. 
My findings on this are that there is simply no credible case for taking this view.
A final point made on Mr Fs behalf after the view was issued by our investigator was that 
him wanting to access the enhancement cash should not have been considered an objective 
in its own right. I accept that to be a reasonable point and I do think Perspective could have 
done more to point that out. It could have gone into more detail about his potential lack of 
funds in retirement. Nevertheless, the reality here was that Mr F was still only 44 and we 
couldnt really yet know what his retirement might look like. From his point of view, he was 
being offered a relatively agreeable cash enhancement and I think the evidence is such that 
he was very interested in accessing that money, as Im sure a family man in his position 
would have been. In this context, what he was wanting to do was transparent and not that 
complicated. However, Perspective had already clearly told him he would be worse off and that a 
guaranteed pension was off the agenda if he was minded to transfer. This is what he needed 
to know, in my view. And it had also demonstrated, in slightly more detail, some data 
showing that transferring out would mean growth in a new pension would still likely be 
inferior to what he was giving up. 
In short, in financial terms, he was very clearly told that transferring was a bad idea.
So, any modest failings from Perspective in this regard were substantially outweighed by the 
information and warnings Mr F was given elsewhere. These showed he knew he was being 
told not to transfer. He knew the reasons why he was being told this  and also the 
consequences for his retirement provisions. 
Summary
I started this final decision by addressing Mr Fs points of complaint. I completely accept that 
remembering the events of over 10 years ago will have proved challenging. However, Mr F 
made some very specific points which implied hed been told to transfer away from his DB 
pension scheme and that he hadnt been told about important guarantees and benefits hed 
be giving up in doing so. In particular, he clearly referred to being told he would be unwise to 
remain in his scheme and that no alternative options were set out for him.
However, Ive found very comprehensive and clear evidence to the contrary. In fact, Mr F 
was told not to transfer away. The evidence is strong that this advice was consistent 
throughout Perspectives dealings with him and in my view, theres simply no credible way it 
could have been interpreted otherwise.
So, I think its likely Mr Fs recollection of events has been affected by the passage of time. 
The evidence is also clear that Mr F took some time to digest the advice not to transfer. That 
he had access to his own personal financial adviser, reduces the capacity for 
misunderstandings. 
However, I think its clear Mr F re-engaged with Perspective after the initial advice. He got in 
contact and explained that whilst he understood that transferring wasnt being 
recommended, he would like to go ahead and transfer, nonetheless. I think the likelihood is 
strong that Mr F saw the cash enhancements to leave the scheme and he came to the 
conclusion that accessing this cash was right for him, despite being advised not to do this. 
Mr F himself then wrote his own email to Perspective confirming he understood the dont 
transfer advice. But he said that he still wanted to go ahead, against that advice. 
He was then given more time to consider his direction of travel because after a few more 
weeks Perspective wrote to him again. It reiterated that he shouldnt transfer and issued a 
very clear warning about doing so.
There was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients at the 
time. But as I explained, there were certain broad rules in the regulators Handbook, which 
required Perspective to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. Overall, I think Perspective did this. 
This means Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Perspective (North East) Limited to do anything Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman