DRN-1464479
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under a wedding insurance policy with 
Great Lakes Insurance SE. 
What happened
Miss G had booked a venue overseas for her wedding on 1 June 2019 and paid a €2,000 
deposit. She took out the wedding insurance policy on 19 March 2019. 
Towards the end of April 2019, Miss G was told by the venue owner that it had been ordered 
to close down by the local government and so could no longer host her wedding. Miss G 
therefore made a claim under her policy for the lost deposit and the additional costs of 
booking another venue, which was more expensive. 
Great Lakes refused to meet Miss Gs claim. Great Lakes says that it appointed overseas 
agents to make further enquiries and they found that the lease on the original venue was up 
for auction on 9 April 2019 and the owner voluntarily withdrew from the process around 10 
days earlier, as such it was not unexpectedly closed by the government. 
In addition, Great Lakes says the original deposit was refunded to Miss Gs father and uncle 
(according to the original venue owners and his lawyer); and the new venue would not 
confirm any booking or provide corroboration of the invoices paid to it by Miss G. Great 
Lakes has also alluded to concerns about the proximity in time in Miss G taking out the 
policy and the closure of the venue; and that all payments made to the original venue and 
most to the new venue were in cash, with apparently no receipts being issued. 
Great Lakes therefore says the claim is not covered. It did, however, acknowledge that there 
were significant delays in responding to Miss G during the claim process and that some 
compensation will be warranted for this. 
Miss G is very unhappy with the refusal of her claim and the handling of the matter by Great 
Lakes. She has made a number of points, which Ive summarised below: 
She vehemently denies receiving a refund of the deposit paid to the original venue. 
Some of her relatives did go to the venue but it was closed up and the owner would 
not respond to her communications. 
Her word and documentary evidence has been ignored in favour of statement 
supposedly given by the previous venue owner and his lawyer that a payment was 
made to her. This is discriminatory and unfair.  
Even if the venue owner had repaid the €2,000 deposit  which she is adamant he 
did not  this does no answer the rest of her claim which is for the additional 
rearrangement costs of around €5,500.
She was told by a representative of the insurer that it should also have considered 
her claim under the legal expenses cover for consumer disputes section of her policy, 
which it hasnt done. It has not therefore considered her claim fairly. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think Great Lakes had acted fairly 
in rejecting the claim. He was satisfied she had done enough to establish the venue had 
been closed down by the local government; and it was unlikely that she had received the 
deposit back. The investigator recommended that Great Lakes meet the claim, subject to the 
remaining policy wording, together with interest. He also recommended that it pay £100.00 
for the delays and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for various events, including cancellation and rearrangement of 
the wedding resulting from specific causes: 
 
What you are covered for:
We will pay  for any irrecoverable expenses incurred by you in respect of  any other 
wedding services supplier booked but not used as a direct result of the unavoidable 
cancellation or curtailment of the wedding or wedding reception as a result of:
the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your wedding 
due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to the venue, murder or 
suicide at the premises or closure of the venue by the relevant authority.
So the policy would cover the loss of any deposit or other payment made to the venue if is it 
forced to close by the local government (which would be a relevant authority in accordance 
with the above term).
The policy also provides cover for any additional costs incurred in having to rearrange the 
relevant services, such as when the cost has increased for the same or similar provision:   
Rearrangement
In the event of cancellation or curtailment of the wedding, wedding reception/s or wedding 
services for reasons specified  above, we will pay  to reimburse you for reasonable 
additional costs incurred in rearranging the wedding and/or reception and/or wedding 
services to a similar standard to that catered for by the original budget. We would expect 
services of a similar standard to not exceed the original invoiced costs by more than 25%.
It is for a claimant to establish their claim, so Miss G does have to provide evidence to 
support her claim that an insured event has happened  in this case therefore she had to 
provide evidence the venue was ordered to close down by the local government. Great 
Lakes was not therefore unreasonable in asking for this. 
Miss G provided the message she received from the original owner and also an email from 
her wedding planner in the relevant country. Great Lakes was not satisfied with this, and I 
can understand why but it was difficult for both Great Lakes and Miss G to get confirmation 
from official sources of what happened. This did therefore cause some delay and Great 
Lakes instructed its overseas agents.
Great Lakes says the business owner withdrew (by choice and willingly) from the lease of 
the venue ten days prior to the auction. The first auction for the lease of the venue took 
place on the 9/04/2019, the venue was leased on the second auction which took place on 
16/04/2019 and eventually closed on the 1/05/2019. The original business owner  chose to 
withdraw from the renewal/auction process regarding the lease. The business owner, 
lawyers and government officials have confirmed this with  [its agents] directly. The business withdrew from leasing the venue which is why the wedding could not be held there, 
the subsequent leasing (by a new owner) and closure was a separate issue. The 
government didnt close the wedding venue prior to the booked company choosing to 
cease.
Great Lakes says the only relevant section of cover would therefore be a section for failure 
of suppliers but this requires the failure to be as a result of the company involved going 
bankrupt or being liquidated, which is not the case here. 
I have not however, seen any documentary evidence to support what Great Lakes has said. 
Great Lakes provided a copy of the notice of auction dated 29 March 2019. The investigator 
had this translated. It gave notice of the auction of the lease and the reasons for the auction, 
none of which are that the venue owner had voluntarily relinquished the lease, or that the 
venue was voluntarily closed. Great Lakess agent relayed a conversation with the original 
owner and/or his lawyer that he withdrew from the leasing process 10 days before the first 
auction, which would have been a day or two after the announcement of the auction. The 
owner may have chosen not to bid but if the auction was imposed by the local government, I 
do not think this means it was not closed by the local government. 
The local government authority eventually responded to Ms G by letter dated August 2019, 
which said the original venue was closed by the local government due to council lease 
preference  and has been leased to  since April 2019 after auction. 
While it is still not entirely clear what this process involved, I think this is sufficient to 
establish the closure was the result of action by the local government. And the reference to 
lease preference ties in with what the wedding planner said about the local government 
deciding they didnt want the venue used for weddings any more.
Great Lakes says this letter means the venue was closed while under ownership of the 
second owner, not the original venue owner who took Miss Gs deposit. I dont agree with 
this interpretation. The letter says the venue was closed and since the auction has been 
leased to another owner and was clearly in response to Miss Gs email asking for details of 
the closure in March/April 2019. So the closure came before the auction and new ownership, 
according to this. 
I cannot therefore see anything in these documents which supports that the auction was 
triggered by any action of the owner, rather than the local government. I therefore consider 
that Miss G has done enough to establish the claim under the cancellation section of the 
policy. 
Great Lakes also says the deposit isnt covered anyway as Miss G cannot prove she did not 
receive this back. Great Lakes says the venue owner and his lawyer told its agent he had 
paid it back to Miss Gs uncle and father. Great Lakes says there is an element of trust 
where a lawyer is involved. However, there is no evidence the payment was made via the 
lawyer  in fact the owner apparently said he handed the cash to Miss Gs relatives. So the 
lawyer would presumably only be relaying what the owner told him. And there is nothing in 
writing from the lawyer, in any event. Only what the agent says they were told over the 
phone. 
It seems to me therefore this is a matter of the owners word against Miss Gs. Miss G says 
she sent relatives to the restaurant to get the deposit back, which could have been her uncle 
and her father (it is not clear) but the venue was closed up and the owner not there. Overall 
there is no reason to doubt Miss Gs word on this. I find Miss Gs account credible. She has 
been consistent in her testimony about this.Great Lakes says it is willing to investigate this further but if the deposit was refunded this is 
potentially a fraudulent claim. I consider it has had ample opportunity to investigate this and 
there is essentially a conflict of evidence but that in itself does not establish fraud on the part 
of Miss G. I therefore think, based on the current evidence, that Great Lakes should 
reimburse the lost deposit. 
With regard to the rearrangement cost, Great Lakes has indicated in its internal notes that it 
would only pay 25% of the additional cost but the policy doesnt restrict cover to this amount; 
it only says it would not expect costs of a similar wedding to cost more than 25% more than 
the original. It cannot therefore apply a 25% limit arbitrarily. 
Great Lakes also raised concern about the venue and food costs being paid mainly in cash. 
Again, this in itself should not defeat a claim. It says the new venue would not confirm that 
arrangements Miss G had made with it but she has provided evidence by way of emails and 
messages between her and the owners. Theres evidence of one bank transfer of €6,200 to 
the new venue and Miss G says the balance was paid in cash on the day of the wedding. 
She has provided evidence of the withdrawal in the UK of enough cash to have used for the 
balance. While it would be preferable to have more documentary evidence of this, I see no 
reason to doubt that this was the payment arrangement with the venue. 
It is my decision that the claim for the rearrangement costs should also be met, according to 
the remaining terms of the policy, together with interest at our usual rate. I also agree that 
some additional compensation is warranted for the trouble the handling of this claim has 
caused. The investigator recommended £100 for this but I consider £200 to be more 
appropriate. I say this because, while the initial enquiries made by Great Lakes were 
reasonable and it was entitled to that information, it took considerably longer than it should 
have done to make its decisions overall.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE should do the following: 
reimburse the €2,000 deposit together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the 
date of the claim to the date of reimbursement; 
reimburse the additional costs incurred in rearranging the wedding, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the 
date Miss G paid those cost to the date of reimbursement; and
pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020. 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman