DRN-2158744
The complaint
Ms Ls complained that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) didnt process an overseas cheque as 
shed understood they would.  As a result, shes lost a significant amount of income.
What happened
In late 2018, Ms L found a property to buy as a holiday let and instructed solicitors to start 
the conveyancing process.
Ms L was going to fund her purchase partly with the proceeds of an overseas property sale. 
In January 2019, she received a cheque for the proceeds.  She presented it to her local 
Lloyds branch, along with documents confirming the source of the funds.  She says the 
branch staff told her this would take about five days to clear.  
The cheque didnt clear in a few days - as Ms L anticipated - but took between seven and 
eight weeks.  So Ms L didnt have the money she needed to proceed with her purchase as 
quickly as shed thought she would.  And the purchase fell through.
Ms L complained that it was Lloyds fault shed lost out on buying the property. She said 
shed provided all the paperwork needed to process the cheque.  But this had been 
separated and had caused the delay.  
Ms L said shed also lost the rental income the property would have generated.  And shed 
had to take out a loan to generate that income a different way.  
Lloyds said that Ms L made a note on the processing form asking for the cheque to be 
processed by negotiation  this means that the bank effectively lends the customer the 
value of the cheque and collects the money itself from the issuing bank.  Lloyds will only do 
this for cheques up to a value of £4000.  
For larger cheques  like the one paid in by Ms L  Lloyds said they had to process by 
collection.  That means they have to contact the issuing bank and collect the money before 
crediting a customers account.  And this process takes between six and eight weeks.
Lloyds agreed that Ms L shouldve been told that the cheque would have to be processed by 
collection  and how long that would take.  To apologise for not giving her this information, 
they said theyd pay £75 into her account.  But they didnt accept that they were responsible 
for the losses Ms L said shed suffered.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response.  So she brought her complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered it and formed the view that Lloyds didnt need to do anything 
more than they had already to resolve Ms Ls complaint.  She said that Lloyds decision to 
limit processing by negotiation to cheques worth £4000 or less meant she couldnt say that 
the separation of the cheque from the other documents supplied by Ms L had led to delay. 
And she couldnt say the sale would definitely have gone ahead if Lloyds had told Ms L the 
right timescale when she deposited the cheque.  So she couldnt hold Lloyds responsible for 
the sale falling through  or for the loss of the income Ms L believes the rental wouldve 
generated.
Ms L didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Lloyds have accepted they shouldve told Ms L her cheque would have to be processed by 
collection  and how long that would take.  The issue Ms L has is that Lloyds dont accept 
the losses she feels shes suffered flow from not giving her that information.
Ive thought carefully about this.  And Ive considered what, if anything, would have been 
different if Lloyds had given Ms L the right information when she paid in the cheque.
Ms L decided to buy a property.  She found one, and instructed solicitors, in late 2018.  She 
did this before shed received the money from her overseas sale.
Ms L received the cheque in mid-January 2019 and paid it in.  Lloyds expect processing by 
collection to take between six and eight weeks.  So if Ms L had been given the right 
information, shed have expected her money to be available in early March. It was credited 
to her account on 7 March.  
If Ms L had known this, she could have passed the right information to her seller.  But shed 
started the purchase process several weeks before she got the cheque.  And Ive seen 
emails which show the seller was pressing Ms L to progress.  I cant be satisfied that, if shed 
been able to give them the true timescale, the seller would have waited for her money to be 
available.  So I cant say that Lloyds are responsible for the sale falling through.
And because I cant say that, I also cant say theyre responsible for any loss of rental 
income the property might have generated for Ms L.  Even if the sale had been completed, 
Ive not seen anything to show that the property wouldve been rented out as Ms L 
anticipated - and wouldve generated the income she hoped.
Similarly, I cant say that Lloyds are responsible for Ms Ls decision to take out a loan to 
provide funds she was hoping to receive as rental income from the property.
So I think the only thing Lloyds shouldve done differently was to give Ms L the right 
information about how her cheque would be processed.  Im satisfied that it wouldnt have 
been processed any quicker had the right information been given.  And I think the 
compensation of £75 is reasonable for this.  So Im not asking Lloyds to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman