DRN-2530311
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy about how a shortfall debt they have with Elderbridge Limited is 
being administered. In particular they are unhappy:
that Elderbridge wouldnt communicate with them by their preferred communication 
method of email during a period when there was no postal address for their residence 
and they couldnt access their care of address;
that Elderbridge didnt respond to their approach for a new payment arrangement and 
then chased them for action when the previous one ended, but still didnt put anything in 
place; and
with the attitude and actions of a member of staff Mr K spoke to in order to complete an 
income and expenditure exercise and sort out a new payment arrangement. They 
believe the person was making assumptions and basing their comments on out of date 
information, and so shouldnt have said what she did.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have set out their account of events in considerable detail. I trust they wont 
take it as a discourtesy that I have condensed their complaint in the way that I have. I wont 
mention every contact between the parties nor will I go into the same level of detail, instead 
I will concentrate on what I view as the key events and contacts.
Mr and Mrs K owned a property on which they had a main mortgage and a secondary 
secured loan with a separate lender. The secured loan started in 2008 and was for 
£100,000, over 215 months. Interest was charged on a variable rate. In 2016 Elderbridge 
took over the secondary secured loan. 
Mr and Mrs K suffered financial difficulties and the property was sold in 2017. The main 
mortgage was cleared from the sale proceeds, but a significant amount remained 
outstanding on the loan with Elderbridge  in the region of £79,000. This was converted to 
an unsecured loan and arrangements for Mr and Mrs K to make small payments to the debt 
were agreed. 
This complaint involves the actions, or lack thereof, of Elderbridge in relation to a payment 
arrangement that ended in May 2020. When the arrangement was made it was confirmed 
that, starting from 15 June 2019, Mr and Mrs K would pay £1 per month toward the 
outstanding debt. It said that on expiry of the arrangement the payment would return to the 
normal monthly payment of £968.20. It was also confirmed that the interest rate was 0%. 
The letter said for Mr and Mrs K to contact Elderbridge if they were unable to make their 
current or future payments. 
Elderbridge has confirmed that no fees or charges have been applied since the beginning of 
January 2018, which were the last of the legal fees associated with the repossession 
process. 
On 5 May 2020 Mr K emailed Elderbridge raising the issue that the payment arrangement 
was due to end soon. As the email included complaint issues, it was passed on to the 
complaints department. It appears Elderbridge didnt proactively deal with the matter of the 
payment arrangement ending; it seems likely this happened because Elderbridge focussed 
on the complaint Mr K had made at the same time. 
Mr K called Elderbridge on 16 May 2020, he was unhappy about the complaint handling and 
that Elderbridge wasnt communicating by email as had been requested. The call handler 
explained that Elderbridge didnt communicate by email. It was also confirmed that the new 
complaint was being investigated. 
On 20 May 2020 Mr K called Elderbridge and explained that due to lockdown rules he and 
Mrs K were unable to access their post. He also said that he didnt think the complaints team 
had addressed his complaint.
On 5 June 2020 Mr K had two telephone conversations with Elderbridge. The first with a 
member of staff in the arrears team, and he was then transferred to the complaints team. 
During the first conversation the member of staff at Elderbridge explained that they needed 
to get an update on Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances. Having taken some time to look at the 
previous information given, and arrangement agreed, the member of staff said, based on the 
information available at that point, the only thing she would look to discuss with Mr K was the 
fact that Mr and Mrs K were paying a higher amount to another unsecured debt, with a lower 
balance, that they were paying to Elderbridge. 
Mr K questioned the mention of another unsecured loan and the member of staff clarified 
that they had a note of a debt with a balance of £3,500 and asked if it was a credit card. 
Mr K confirmed the balance had changed since that detail was given. The member of staff 
then said that this was why they checked their customers circumstances. She went on to 
explain that if there is more than one debt, with very different balances, Elderbridge would 
encourage its customer to take financial advice. She was in the process of asking a 
question, which I believe was to be whether taking advice was something Mr and Mrs K 
wanted to do, when Mr K became unhappy with the direction of the conversation. The 
exchange continued for a further period. I wont go into the details, but I think it reasonable to 
say it was not a productive exchange. The conversation ended with Mr K being transferred 
to the complaints team, as the member of staff wasnt convinced that, given Mr Ks 
comments about what he didnt want her to say, she would be able to move forward with an 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances. 
The call recording of the conversation with the complaints team provided background to how 
Mr and Mrs K ended up in the position they were in, some mention of an existing complaint 
and why Mr K was unhappy with the previous call. The complaints team member said that 
his concerns would be looked into and offered to arrange for an income and expenditure 
exercise to be done. 
On 9 June 2020 an income and expenditure exercise was completed with Mr K. He was told 
the information would be passed on and Elderbridge would come back to him about a future 
arrangement. Unfortunately, Elderbridge didnt contact Mr and Mrs K about a further 
payment arrangement at that time. 
Later that month Elderbridge responded to Mr and Mrs Ks complaints. It didnt uphold them. 
It explained why it didnt consider email an appropriate form of communication, but it was 
always willing to discuss matters in a telephone call.  It said that it didnt think its member of 
staff had behaved inappropriately during the call with Mr K. It also referred Mr K back to 
some previous correspondence in relation to concerns not covered by this complaint.  Mr and Mrs K werent happy with Elderbridges response. They referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. Whilst she wasnt persuaded that Mr Ks 
telephone contact on 5 June 2020 had been handled inappropriately, she thought 
Elderbridges service in relation to Mr and Mrs Ks requests about future payments fell short 
of what it should have been. She recommended £50 payment for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused them. In addition, given there was little likelihood of 
Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances changing, she thought Elderbridge should let Mr and Mrs K 
know what its aim was for the future. 
In relation to Mr and Mrs Ks concerns about Elderbridge corresponding with them by post, 
the investigator didnt think Elderbridge had properly taken their circumstances into account 
when refusing to correspond by email. This being due to there being no postal address for 
the static caravan they were living in at the time of the events and the postal address they 
were able to use was 50 miles away, with limited or no access because of the pandemic. 
She recommended Elderbridge review Mr and Mrs Ks position and its decision about 
correspondence, along with paying them £50 for the additional stress this issue would have 
caused them.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept the investigators opinion. They explained that the representative 
of Elderbridge on 5 June 2020 was talking to them on the basis of the information from 2019 
because a new income and expenditure hadnt been done. They said she had no knowledge 
of whether their circumstances had changed and so shouldnt have suggested the debt with 
Elderbridge should be treated as a priority. They dont consider any advice or opinion should 
have been voiced before a new income and expenditure was done. 
Mr and Mrs K said that despite being told on 5 June 2020 that the arrears team would need 
to deal with the necessary income and expenditure exercise, no-one called them. Although 
there was a call on 9 June 2020, it was nothing to do with the telephone conversation Mr K 
had with Elderbridge on 5 June 2020 
In relation to the matter of Elderbridges method of communication, Mr and Mrs K pointed out 
that the arrears team emailed them before the house was sold and also emailed the solicitor 
dealing with the sale. So they are of the opinion Elderbridge uses email when it suits it. 
Mr and Mrs K also said that the £100 suggested by the investigator was a TOTAL insult to 
both of us on the stress and anxiety we have had and are still going through, not knowing 
our future. They said they didnt want a payment, but rather they wanted a solution for their 
situation. They commented that Elderbridge saying that a new income and expenditure 
exercise needed to be done was very frustrating as all of this should have been done in 
May 2020. Mr and Mrs K said Elderbridge needed to agree a time for it to call them, so that 
they had all the necessary information to hand. Alternatively, they would be willing to send 
Elderbridge a spreadsheet with all the relevant information contained in it. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ks response, but it didnt change her opinion about 
the complaint. She offered to facilitate the arrangements for an income and expenditure 
exercise to be done.
Mr and Mrs K asked that their complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
Subsequently they also confirmed that an income and expenditure exercise was done on 
9 June 2020 and that the person they spoke to on that call said that the arrears team would 
have to get back to him about any further arrangement. Nothing further was heard from 
Elderbridge about an arrangement. They questioned why, on 9 June 2020, didnt Elderbridge 
arrange for the call to be made by someone who could make the decision about future plans, as well as taking information? They explained all such things added time, fees, stress and 
anxiety, and they feel that Elderbridge was getting away with a little wrist slapping.
A contact at Elderbridge was arranged in November 2020 so Mr and Mrs K could sort out a 
new payment arrangement. Unfortunately, the contact wasnt available, and Mr K says he 
was told there was no record of the situation on his and Mrs Ks records. However, a 
payment arrangement was organised for a further twelve months. Mr K said the call had 
gone smoothly and he was happy with how hed been treated. However, he did comment 
that they will be paying £1 until they die and suggested that wasnt fair. 
Unfortunately, the new arrangements didnt commence smoothly and in December 2020 
Mr K was sent a letter about the broken arrangement. The letter said that the payment would 
revert to almost £1,000 after the arrangement and that there could be legal action. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy with this, given the amount of time it took Elderbridge to 
organise the payment arrangement. It was put back in place. 
Following this, Elderbridge agree to increase the compensation payment to £350. 
Mr and Mrs K were informed about the revised offer, but they didnt accept it. They said it 
didnt change the position; that they are in approximately £79,000 debt that can never be 
paid off, so the amount being offered is short change based on what they are going through 
and offers them no reassurance things will change.  Mr and Mrs K said they would accept 
£500 in relation to the sole issue of how long it took to arrange a payment plan. This was 
communicated to Elderbridge, but it declined to increase the compensation further.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before commenting on the merits of this complaint, I think it would be appropriate to confirm 
that I wont be commenting on Mr and Mrs Ks concerns about the sale of the loan as that 
issue is covered by the separate complaint about the lender who sold the loan in the first 
place and remains responsible for that advice. Nor will I be commenting on recent concerns 
Mr and Mrs K have mentioned to us, but that were not part of their original complaint. I 
understand from Mr Ks comments that these matters are being referred to Elderbridge, as 
they should be in the first instance.
Although I have read and considered the whole file, I will keep my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because I have not considered it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
I have listened to the call on 5 June 2020 which Mr K is unhappy about. I know that 
Mr and Mrs K wont be happy with my conclusion, but I dont think the member of staff was 
patronising toward Mr K or that she acted inappropriately. The conversation was clearly not 
productive after the point when the member of staff suggested Mr and Mrs K seek 
independent financial advice, which of course they had already done. I can understand 
Mr Ks frustration about this suggestion being made again in light of being unhappy with the 
advice they received, but it is something that lenders are required to do. I am also satisfied 
that had the conversation continued in a more productive manner, it is likely the income and 
expenditure exercise Mr K wanted done, would have happened. That said, given the tone and content of the conversation, it would seem reasonable that his call was transferred to 
the complaints team.
The subsequent income and expenditure exercise was done in order for an assessment of 
Mr and Mrs Ks situation to be made and, if appropriate, a payment arrangement to be put in 
place. Mr K was promised that someone would come back to him. That didnt happen. It was 
not until after this service became involved that a further assessment was completed and a 
payment was arranged. This was very poor service on Elderbridges part and clearly caused 
Mr and Mrs K worry, stress and inconvenience in trying to remedy the situation. 
Elderbridge has confirmed that it doesnt normally communicate by email as it doesnt 
consider it is secure. It is not the only financial business that takes this approach and I cant 
criticise it on a generic basis for doing so  it has a responsibility to protect its customers 
personal and financial data. However, there will be circumstances where it doesnt have a 
choice to communicate in that manner and does so, but it would be a last resort. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt have a postal address where they were living after they moved out of 
the mortgaged property, which would cause them problems. However, they provided a care 
of postal address for correspondence. It wasnt unreasonable for Elderbridge to use that 
address and it would appear that wasnt a problem until Mr and Mrs Ks movements were 
restricted in 2020. At this point Mr and Mrs K couldnt access their post. Such a situation is 
one where a lender should consider whether there was an alternative for communication for 
their customer. Whilst I think Elderbridge should have considered the situation further at the 
time, I note that the situation is no longer an issue as Mr and Mrs K now have their own 
postal address. 
This service is not the industry regulator and so our role is not to punish businesses and any 
awards we make cannot be punitive. Any monetary award does not really compensate for 
upset or inconvenience, but in this case I am in agreement with our investigator that a 
payment of £350 is appropriate for the upset and inconvenience Elderbridges poor service 
has caused Mr and Mrs K.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Elderbridge Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs K £350 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I 
am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman