DRN-1714956
The complaint
Mr L has complained about FIL Retirement Services Limited. He is unhappy about the way it 
handled a potential pension transfer. 
What happened
Mr L took advice from FIL about transferring benefits he held in a former employers pension 
scheme. The scheme was a Defined Benefits (DB) scheme. He had first contacted FIL in 
December 2017 about this DB scheme and another pension he held.
Mr L contacted FIL again in April 2018. He completed a retirement planning form and then 
had a telephone discussion with an adviser from FIL on 4 May 2018. Mr L had a transfer 
value (CETV) from the DB pension provider but this had expired so FIL arranged to get a 
new one. The new CETV was received on 8 May 2019. The CETV had increased and was 
now almost £198,000 and was valid until 31 July 2018. The CETV was also sent to Mr L and 
he was aware of the deadline.
During this call the adviser told Mr L that it would be quiet for a couple of weeks whilst he 
waited for information from the pension provider, and that once he had the information it 
would take 10-15 working days to complete an analysis. Mr L said that he was open-minded 
about the transfer but he was likely to follow the advice if leaving the DB scheme was 
recommended.
FIL wrote to Mr L on 30 May 2018 setting out its understanding of his objectives. Mr L 
responded on 18 June 2018.
FIL then contacted Mr L on 30 July 2018. The adviser called him and sent a suitability report 
by email. The report recommended a transfer. The adviser had contacted the pension 
provider to confirm that it would accept email versions of the necessary paperwork so that 
the CETV could be secured. 
Mr L was on holiday at the time. He received the email and responded on 31 July 2018 
saying that he understood the urgency but wished to discuss the advice with his wife. He 
contacted FIL again in September 2018. 
A new CETV has been obtained, but the value has decreased by around £50,000. Mr L was 
understandably disappointed about that and made a complaint.
FIL didnt uphold the complaint. Essentially, it said that it had never guaranteed that it would 
provide its advice in time to secure this CETV which expired on 31 July 2018. It also said 
that Mr L could have secured it, and could have done so in a way that could have been 
rescinded if he changed his mind.
The complaint was referred to this service. The investigator said that she didnt think it 
should be upheld. She felt that there had been delays during the advice process by FIL but 
also by the pension provider and Mr L. However, FIL hadnt guaranteed that it would secure this CETV and it had made reasonable efforts to provide its advice in time. She said that Mr 
L did have the opportunity to secure this CETV but didnt take it.
The investigator noted that FIL had, as a gesture of goodwill, offered to carry out further 
work on the transfer free of charge if Mr L wished to go ahead.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that his complaint was focussed on how upset he was about being 
called on 30 July 2018. He was on holiday. He says that he found it disturbing that he was 
being asked to make a decision that day. He also had to ask his hotel to print and scan 
documents for him. He felt like he was facing hard sell tactics and was uncomfortable with 
this. 
Mr L also said that the adviser told him there had been delays caused by new staff at FIL not 
picking up the case while the adviser was on leave.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint but I have considered everything. Having 
done that, Ive decided that I agree with the investigator and with her reasoning. I dont 
uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ls upset and disappointment. Its clear that he felt uncomfortable 
having to make this important decision in such a short time frame. That can only have been 
compounded when the new CETV he obtained was for a considerably lower amount. On the 
positive side, although the CETV is less, Mr L still holds the benefits from the DB pension 
scheme which are secure, and very valuable.
Im grateful to Mr L for the clarification hes provided about his complaint. Hes made it clear 
that his main complaint is about the pressure he was placed under to make a decision so 
quickly.
But I have considered the overall advice process, like the investigator said advising on a 
transfer like this is not a straightforward process. There are many factors to consider. The 
regulator has said that advisers should generally start from position where its presumed that 
transferring out of a DB scheme will not be suitable for most people and should only be 
recommended if its in their best interests. 
Usually, a CETV is valid for three months which gives some indication of how long the 
advice process may take.
Firstly, Ive not seen any evidence that suggests FIL did give any guarantee that it would 
complete the advice process so that this CETV could be secured. I dont think Mr L suggests 
that it did.
Secondly, whilst there may have been some delays caused by FIL, its also true that there 
were delays on the part of the pension provider in supplying all relevant information and Mr L 
too. I also note that FIL was hoping to provide advice to Mr L on another pension he held at 
the same time as it advised on this transfer which is understandable. But there were delays 
in relation to that transfer, which led FIL to proceed with this advice separately.Ultimately, FIL was able to provide its recommendation to Mr L within the deadline. I can 
understand that it was far from ideal from Mr Ls perspective to receive the advice whilst he 
was away from home on a short holiday. I can understand that he would have felt under 
pressure. But FIL were his advisers and this was advice and a recommendation rather than 
a hard sell. And Mr L had been aware of the deadline and must have had some expectation 
that he would be receiving advice at some stage, and quite possibly before the deadline 
passed.
I dont think FIL had any real choice other than to provide the advice when it did. I think it 
would have been wrong to do nothing for a few days and let the deadline pass. If it had done 
that, FIL could easily face criticism for not allowing Mr L the opportunity to secure the CETV.
So whilst I do understand Mr Ls discomfort when he was contacted whilst on holiday and felt 
under pressure to make a speedy decision, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
uphold this complaint. Whilst there may have been some avoidable delays in the advice 
process, FIL was not solely responsible for these in my view. And I think that Mr L was given 
a reasonable opportunity to secure this CETV. Ideally he would have had longer to make up 
his mind, but he knew of the deadline, and he had been contemplating a possible transfer 
since at least December 2017. He must have been expecting to receive advice, and he must 
have anticipated that there was the possibility that this advice would recommend that he 
transfer.
Mr L accepted that he understood the urgency of the situation, but he may not have felt that 
the deadline was so crucial given the CETV had recently increased. He knew the CETV 
could change, but may not have anticipated such a significant fall. I think he could have 
secured this CETV if he had intended to. 
Im sorry that Mr L feels that he has lost out, but for these reasons I dont uphold this 
complaint.
FIL has offered to carry out further work free of charge as a gesture of goodwill. That's 
something Mr L will need to consider.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman