DRN-3730799
The complaint
Mr T is a sole trader, trading as S. He complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG 
Insurance (NIG) avoided his Motor Trade policy without reason which left many vehicles 
uninsured. 
What happened
Mr T took out a Motor Trade policy with NIG via a broker in October 2021. Soon after 
inception Mr T made a claim on his policy for theft of a vehicle. When reviewing the claim 
NIG found that Mr T didnt disclose a previous bankruptcy and company insolvency when 
taking out the policy in October 2021. NIG also said Mr T provided incorrect information 
about the nature of his business too. 
NIG said Mr T had the opportunity to disclose the above information when he was asked 
about it on the statement of fact at inception in October 2021, but he didnt. They said if 
these material facts were disclosed, they would not have provided cover. NIG therefore 
avoided Mr Ts policy from inception and treated is as cancelled from the outset. NIG also 
said Mr T couldnt insure with NIG or any brand partner insurers in the future. 
NIG said that they believed Mr T would have been aware of the information about the 
bankruptcy and insolvency and therefore deemed this non-disclosure to be either deliberate 
or reckless and therefore didnt return any premium as a result of the policy voidance. 
Mr T is dissatisfied that the policy has been avoided and that he is still required to pay the 
premium for the policy in full. He explained that the non-disclosure of the bankruptcy and 
insolvency was an oversight on his part because he thought NIG wanted to know about 
current bankruptcies only. He later said his broker only asked him about bankruptcies and 
insolvencies within the last 5 years, as the bankruptcy was over 5 years ago, he didnt tell 
NIG about it.   
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think NIG had acted unfairly. She said 
in summary: 
Mr T was under a duty to make a fair presentation of risk at inception.
She felt that Mr T ought to have been aware of the bankruptcy and insolvency. 
She was satisfied that had Mr T informed NIG of the bankruptcy and insolvency, they 
wouldnt have provided cover. 
She concluded that NIG acted fairly by avoiding the policy from inception. She also 
found that NIG acted correctly in retaining the premium. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary 
he said, this matter should be addressed with the broker because full details were given to 
them at the time. He was also unhappy that he was being chased for the full premium even 
though the policy had been cancelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome Mr T was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
I want to assure Mr T that Ive read and carefully considered everything he has said. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr T, and by NIG, to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on NIGs decision to avoid the policy and reject Mr Ts 
claim. 
When considering whether NIG acted fairly, the starting point is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under this Act, commercial policyholders, or agents acting on their behalf, have a duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out and renewing a policy.
The Insurance Act says disclosure needs to be made as follows:
disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to
know, or
failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of
revealing those material circumstances.
For NIG to take any action at all, they need to show is Mr T didnt do this and that he made 
whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
The statement of fact which was completed on behalf of Mr T in October 2021 and Mr T was 
sent a copy of, to confirm its accuracy, included the following statement:
1. Have you or:
I.any director or partner in any business,
II.any partner in any partnership, or
III.any director of any company 
either in the name of the business proposed or in the name of any other business in 
which any of you have had an interest:
e ever been declared bankrupt or insolvent, subject of an individual voluntary 
arrangement with creditors, voluntary liquidation, a winding up or administration 
order, or administrative receivership proceedings within the last 10 years? 
This question was answered no. 
It is not in dispute that the statement of fact containing the above question and answer was 
sent to Mr T prior to the commencement of the policy in October 2021 and he was asked to 
check its accuracy. NIG have provided information which demonstrates that within the last 10 years of the policy 
inception Mr T was subject to a personal bankruptcy and involved in a company insolvency. 
This is not disputed by Mr T. 
NIG said information about the bankruptcy and insolvency was a material fact which Mr T 
should have disclosed at the time of the policy inception in October 2021. 
Mr T initially said it was an oversight on his part in not providing the information about the 
bankruptcy and insolvency to NIG. Following the investigators view, Mr T said the broker 
whom he took out the policy through, was given all the information at the time and so NIG 
should take this up with them. The broker was acting as agent for Mr T and therefore the 
broker also had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk on Mr Ts behalf.  
At the time of the policy inception, Mr T was asked by his broker to confirm if all the details 
on the statement of fact were correct. 
The statement of fact also included the following: 
The information you have provided has been relied upon to calculate a premium and apply 
terms and conditions upon which insurance cover is offered. 
WARNING  YOU MUST CHECK ALL THE INFORMATION IN THE SCHEDULE AND THIS 
STATEMENT OF FACT AND TELL YOUR BROKER, INTERMEDIARY OR AGENT ACTIG 
ON YOUR BEHALF IMMEDIATLEY IF ANY DETAILS ARE INCORRECT, INCOMPLETE 
OR HAVE BEEN OMITTED. FAILURE TO DO SO MAY MEAN THAT YOUR INSURANCE 
POLICY IS NOT VALIUD OR THAT ALL OR PART OF YOUR CLAIM(S) WILL NOT BE 
PAID. 
At the time of inception in October 2021, I am satisfied that NIG wasnt made aware of the 
bankruptcy and insolvency. However, I think it is clear from the wording in the statement of 
fact that this information was material to NIGs decision in accepting the risk. 
Taking Mr Ts circumstances into consideration  a director of a business which went into 
insolvency and was subject to a personal bankruptcy, I believe he ought to have known 
about them and they needed to be disclosed to NIG at inception in October 2021.
 
Mr T said the broker was given all the information at the time. This complaint is about NIG. If 
Mr T remains dissatisfied with the brokers handling of the policy as his agent, Mr T can raise 
a separate complaint with the broker if he wishes. For the reasons given above, I am 
satisfied that it was Mr Ts responsibility to ensure that he provided a fair presentation of the 
risk to NIG when the policy was incepted. As he didnt do that in this instance, I am satisfied 
that he didnt make a fair presentation of the risk.
NIG have provided their underwriting guide. Based on this evidence, I am satisfied that had 
the appropriate disclosures been made, NIG wouldnt have offered terms to Mr T in October 
2021. Therefore, I think Mr T made a qualifying breach when taking out his policy.
The remedies available to NIG depend on whether a qualifying breach is either deliberate or 
reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. NIG have treated Mr Ts breach as deliberate or 
reckless. Based on all the circumstances, I think NIG acted fairly in deciding this. The 
question in the statement of fact, clearly asked about any bankruptcies or insolvencies in the 
last 10 years. Im satisfied this question should have been understood by Mr T, but he didnt 
disclose the information to NIG.  
Taking everything into account, I dont think NIG acted unfairly in avoiding Mr Ts policy from inception and retaining all the premium paid for not making a fair presentation of the risk. As 
the policy was avoided from inception, there was no policy in place and therefore fair for NIG 
to decline the claim in question.  
NIG also said that Mr T provided incorrect information about the nature of his business. 
However, I dont need to make a finding on this because Ive already decided that NIG acted 
fairly and reasonably in avoiding Mr Ts policy and declining the claim.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman