DRN-1829364
The complaint
Ms O on behalf of her parents complains that British Gas Insurance Ltd  have unfairly 
treated her parents when renewing their homecare policy. 
Any reference to British gas includes its agents. As Ms O is representing her parents, Ill 
mainly refer to her throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O had a British Gas home care policy for a number of years. This policy, in 
summary, offered cover for their boiler. The policy renewed a number of times after 
inception, increasing in price at the point of each renewal. 
Around the time of the renewal in 2019, Ms O was visiting her parents and saw the renewal 
letter that British Gas had sent her parents. The quote give for renewal was around £412. 
Ms O deemed this to be excessive and searched online for the price for a new customer. 
The quote she found was around £253. Ms O then rang British gas and asked for her 
parents to be given the same price as a new customer. British Gas told her theyd be unable 
to match the price as it contained an introductory offer.
They instead offered Ms O an updated quote of around £179, with a discount for the year 
and an excess amount of £60. Ms O agreed to this on behalf of her parents. 
Both parties now agree that Ms Os parents are vulnerable customers based on their age 
and medical circumstances. Ms O was unhappy as she felt British Gas didnt treat her 
parents fairly under their business policy for vulnerable customers. In particular she feels 
that had it not been for her intervention, then her parents policy wouldve auto renewed and 
theyd be paying a higher price. She also feels that British Gas shouldve offered her parents 
the same deals available to new customers. 
Ms O wants British Gas to stand by their policy and now refund the difference between what 
a new customer wouldve paid and what they have paid at each renewal for the length of 
time that British Gas have known that her parents were vulnerable.
British Gas looked into Ms Os complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that Mr and Mrs O 
are on their Priority Service register for vulnerable customers and theyve recorded the 
medical circumstances. They offered Ms O the chance to deal with the account on her 
parents behalf by obtaining a power of attorney. In relation to the main part of Ms Os 
complaint, British Gas didnt uphold it.
Ms O remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. In summary, he found that British Gas hadnt treated Ms Os parents 
unfairly and as a business they could set their insurance premiums as they saw fit or choose 
which customers they offer discounts or offers to. He also found that the setting of premiums 
in this case wasnt influenced by Mr and Mrs Os personal circumstances, rather factors like 
the age and condition of their boiler.
Ms O didnt accept our investigators findings and the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I acknowledge that this is an emotive complaint for Ms O given the issues involved and her 
parents circumstances. But when coming to my decision the key finding I need to make is 
whether or not British Gas have treated Mr and Mrs O fairly and reasonably.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms O that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here regarding the main part of Mr and Mrs Os complaint. So I wont be asking British Gas 
to refund the difference between what her parents paid and what a new customer wouldve 
paid each year. However, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion overall and Ill explain 
why below.
British Gas have said that their premiums for this type of policy are set based on factors like 
the age and condition of a boiler. Ive also seen the underwriting criteria that is at the back of 
the premiums charged in this case and I think that Mr and Mrs O have fairly been charged 
what any other existing customer would have been with a similar boiler.
British Gas accept that often new customers will benefit from discounts or introductory offers 
during the first year of a policy. This isnt at all unusual and common across the insurance 
industry. So I cant say that theyve done anything wrong here. 
Its also not within my remit to direct British Gas to set their insurance premiums in a 
particular way or tell them how they should offer discounts or promotions to individual 
customers or to dictate what literature they can or cant use. Ultimately, customers are free 
to shop around for a better deal if they so wish. I appreciate in Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances that may have been more difficult, but Im pleased to see that following       
Ms Os intervention Mr and Mrs O benefited from a cheaper premium for the current year.
A large part of Ms Os complaint is about what she perceives to be British Gas going against 
what its set out in the treating customers fairly literature. This is a publication that Ms O 
was referred to after she made her complaint to British Gas. Having reviewed the document, 
Im more persuaded that, although it refers to vulnerable customers, its more likely than not 
aimed at British Gas energy supply customers as it refers to tariffs throughout. I also note 
that Ms O told us in her complaint form that she was also given this impression by the British 
Gas complaints team. 
Regardless, Ive still found overall that I think British Gas have treated Mr and Mrs O fairly 
and reasonably given their personal circumstances. They wrote to Mr and Mrs O to let them 
know what the renewal price would be and Ive seen evidence of this for the past 5 years as 
well as the breakdown of how the premiums were calculated each year.Moving forward, if Ms O wants to act on behalf of her parents policy she can speak to British 
Gas more about this.
In summary, British Gas have treated Mr and Mrs O fairly at the point of each renewal, but 
somewhere along the line, the number of radiators in the property has been recorded as 14 
instead of 12 which resulted in slightly higher premiums for Mr and Mrs O.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs Os house has 12 radiators rather than the 14 that British Gas based their 
premium calculations on. Its not entirely clear how this error came about, but British Gas 
should now recalculate what Mr and Mrs O would have paid since policy inception had the 
number of radiators correctly been recorded as 12 instead of 14. They should refund the 
difference to Mr and Mrs O along with 8% simple interest. As already explained to Ms O, this 
is unlikely to be a large amount of money, but its important that British Gas correct the 
mistake. 
I know Ms O will ultimately be disappointed with this outcome as Im not upholding the main 
complaint point here. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally 
resolve this dispute with British Gas  can do for her on behalf of her parents.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and direct British 
Gas to do what Ive set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O on behalf of  
Mr O and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman