DRN-3128248
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide her with information which
meant that she missed being able to make an annual contribution to her ISA.  
What happened
Mrs G called Barclays in late March 2021 to confirm what steps she needed to take to
contribute to her ISA before the 2020/21 tax year end. Following this discussion, Mrs G
made a transfer to her ISA, but several days later this contribution was returned to her in the
form of a cheque by Barclays who advised that theyd been unable to process Mrs Gs
intended contribution because she hadnt completed a new ISA declaration form for the
2020/21 tax year before making the contribution.
Mrs G wasnt happy about this, especially as it hadnt been mentioned to her when she
called Barclays that she would need to have done this, and also because the cheque wasnt
received by her until after the end of year cut-off date, meaning that she had effectively lost
the opportunity to contribute to her ISA for that tax year. So, Mrs G raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Gs complaint. But while Barclays acknowledged that the need for a
new ISA declaration form should have been discussed with Mrs G when shed called, they
also noted that the requirement for the completion of this form was included in the product
literature that Mrs G had been supplied with when she opened her ISA account a few years
previous. Because of this, Barclays didnt feel that they should be held solely responsible for
what had happened and they offered Mrs G a payment of £25 for the trouble and upset this
matter had caused.
Mrs G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays had
provided information to Mrs G about the need for a new ISA declaration form, and so they
also didnt feel that Barclays should be held solely responsible for Mrs G not completing that
form.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to a ombudsman for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 October 2021 on this complaint as follows:
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs G to have contacted 
Barclays to ensure that the ISA contribution that she wished to make for the 2020/21 
tax year would be made, only to then discover that because she hadnt completed a 
form that she hadnt been told about during her conversation with Barclays that the 
funds that shed transferred to her ISA had been returned to her.
Barclays have acknowledged that when Mrs G called them about her ISA 
contribution, the agent to whom she spoke did mention at the start of that telephone 
call that they needed to check that the ISA declaration had been made correctly. 
However, this point wasnt returned to at any point during the call, and it appears that 
the point was ultimately overlooked.
Its difficult not to conclude that had Barclays agent remembered to revisit the issue 
of the ISA declaration that it would have been confirmed that Mrs G needed to 
complete a new ISA declaration form and this entire complaint would have been 
avoided.
However, it doesnt follow from this that I feel that Barclays should be held solely 
responsible for Mrs G not being able to make the contribution to her ISA that she 
wanted, and I say this because I do feel that there was a responsibility on Mrs G to 
have understood the ISA that she had signed up to and to have recognised that a 
new ISA declaration form would or might have been required. And it also must be 
noted that the need for a new ISA declaration form in the circumstances that Mrs G 
found herself in was explained in the product literature which Mrs G had been 
provided with.
Its also notable that Mrs G was seeking to make this contribution very close to the 
deadline for contributions for the 2020/21 tax year, and that this meant that when the 
funds were ultimately returned to her by cheque  which Barclays did because Mrs G 
holds no other accounts other than her ISA with Barclays  it was then too late for 
Mrs G to resubmit the funds as intended, because by that time a new tax year had 
commenced.
I recognise that Mrs G feels that the actions of Barclays mean that she has been 
effectively denied the possibility of contributing to her ISA in the 2020/21 tax year. 
While I sympathise with Mrs G here, I struggle to concur with this conclusion, and I 
say this because I do feel that Mrs G must herself bear some responsibility for not 
recognising the need for a new ISA declaration form and also because had Mrs G 
sought to resolve this matter sooner the return of the funds would likely have been 
done before the end of the tax year meaning that opportunity to resubmit the funds 
would have been available.
However, it is clear to me that Barclays must bear some responsibility here, and it 
remains my position that this issue could and should have been avoided had their 
agent followed up on their initial note that they needed to check Mrs Gs ISA 
declaration form.
As such, while I dont feel that it would be fair to ask Barclays to reimburse Mrs G for
potential future losses here  given that I dont feel that Barclays can reasonably be 
said be solely responsible for what took place  I do feel that an amount of 
compensation is warranted, and I dont feel that the £25 that Barclays have 
previously offered Mrs G is sufficient in this instance.
It follows from this that my provisional decision here will be that I uphold this 
complaint in Mrs Gs favour and my provisional instruction will be that Barclays must 
make a payment to Mrs G of £150 to more fairly compensate her for the upset and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
In my provisional decision letter, I invited both Mrs G and Barclays to provide any comments 
or further information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final decision. Barclays confirmed that were in acceptance of my provisional decision, whereas Mrs G 
spoke with our investigator and relayed her concerns.
During one of her calls with our investigator, Mrs G asked that it be confirmed by myself that 
I had listened to those calls. As such, Id like to confirm to Mrs G that I have listened to the 
calls that she had with our investigator and have considered the points that she raised in 
those calls accordingly.
For instance, Mrs G explained to our investigator that she felt that it wasnt reasonable to 
expect her, as a customer, to have read the terms and conditions of the ISA account and to 
be aware of the need for another ISA declaration to be submitted. Mrs G also stated that, at 
the time of the telephone call she held with Barclays, that the onus was on the Barclays 
agent who handled the call, to have provided details of any further administrative steps, such 
as the need for a new ISA declaration, that were required to enable her intended ISA 
contribution to be successful.
I can appreciate Mrs Gs position here, to a degree. But I dont accept that a customer 
shouldnt be expected to understand the type of account that they hold, including the key 
features and terms of that account. And this is especially so in this instance given that the 
term in question referred to a regulatory requirement. 
However, I do acknowledge that the onus was on the Barclays agent at the time of the call 
to have confirmed to Mrs G that a new ISA declaration submission was required. Indeed, as 
mentioned in my provisional decision, I note that the matter of a new ISA declaration was 
referenced by Barclays agent at the start of the call with Mrs G, but unfortunately wasnt 
referred to again by either Barclays agent or Mrs G. But I dont feel that the failure of the 
Barclays agent to return to the matter of the ISA declaration before ending the call 
supersedes or overrides in full Mrs Gs responsibility to understand the requirements of the 
ISA account that she held.
As such, I continue to feel that neither Mrs G or Barclays should be considered as being fully 
responsible for Mrs G not submitting the new ISA declaration that was required. And, 
because I dont feel that I can consider Barclays as being solely responsible for Mrs G not 
being able to make her annual ISA contribution, I dont feel that I can reasonably or fairly 
instruct Barclays to cover any financial loss that Mrs G may claim in consequence of her not 
being able to make that contribution.
But I do continue to feel that Barclays bear some responsibility here  given the failure of 
their agent to return to the issue of the ISA declaration during the call with Mrs G  and that 
Barclays should provide some compensation to Mrs G for this. And, after consideration of 
the concerns and further information that Mrs G has raised with our investigator, it remains 
my position that a payment of £150 compensation to Mrs G does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. As such, my final decision will be a confirmation of 
my provisional decision in that I will be upholding this complaint on the basis described 
above only.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs G was wanting here, and I sympathise with 
the difficult personal circumstances that shes experiencing presently, as Mrs G described 
them to our investigator. But I hope that Mrs G will understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
 
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mrs G.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman