DRN-4163335
The complaint
Miss O complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost, after she fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. In making her complaint Miss O is represented, but 
for ease Ill refer to Miss O throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In January 2022, Miss O was contacted by somebody claiming to be from the Ministry of 
Justice (MOJ). The caller told Miss O that there was an arrest warrant out in her name and 
she needed to make payments to avoid imprisonment. Miss O said she checked the number 
she was being called from online and saw that it was the MOJs number, which convinced 
her the call was genuine.
Believing she was talking to the MOJ and fearful of not following their instructions Miss O 
went ahead and made the payments listed below. She had been told that the payments 
would be pended and the transactions were just being made to prove that she had the 
available funds to pay the money she was told she owed. But unknown to her at the time, 
Miss O was speaking to a fraudster and shed sent the money to an account the fraudsters 
controlled;
24 January 2022 @ 10:14 £1,971.11
24 January 2022 @ 10:54 £1,675.00
Miss O has said she became suspicious when, after she had told the fraudsters she didnt 
have any more money to send, they became aggressive and less professional. Following 
which the call ended.
Miss O contacted Revolut through its in-app chat. Revolut looked into Miss Os complaint but 
didnt uphold it. In summary, it said it had acted on best practice and was not liable for the 
transfers. It added that it had contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the money 
was sent) to try and recover the money, but unfortunately no funds remained.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Miss O brought her complaint to our service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she said that while the payments Miss O made were larger than payments shed 
made previously, she didnt think Revolut should have done more than it did.
As Miss O didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss O was the victim of a scam and I can understand why she wants to do 
all she can to recover the money she lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Miss Os 
losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
It is the case that Miss O authorised all the transfers in dispute. And under the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means   
Miss O is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Miss O was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an 
amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to 
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide 
a suitable warning.
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in situations 
where Revolut do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the payment.
I can see that the payments Miss O has made were higher than other payments shed made 
in the lead up to the scam. Ive no doubt that the combined value of this fraud is significant to 
Miss O. But as Ive mentioned, payment providers process a large number of transactions 
every day and its also reasonable to assume that a customer may occasionally make higher 
value payments on their accounts. Im mindful here that the second payment was for less 
than the first, which can, but of course not always, be less of an indication of a fraud. 
While I recognise it is finely balanced, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made. From the evidence provided I can see 
that Revolut did provide Miss O with some online warnings before allowing the payments to 
be progressed. All things considered I think that Revolut did enough in providing these 
warnings to Miss O when she made the payments. I think these were proportionate 
interventions, given the individual circumstances of this case, and Im not persuaded Revolut 
needed to do anything more.
Im also satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in attempting to recover Miss Os funds, but that 
unfortunately it wasnt able to recover any of the money she sadly lost. Here the funds were 
initially sent to another account held with Revolut, but then moved immediately from there. 
Ive seen that Revolut did follow the trail to the second generation bank, but wasnt 
successful in recovering any of the money. It is quite typical with these types of scams for 
fraudsters to move money away from the beneficiary account, straight after the payments 
are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of recovery. Sadly, that was the 
case here.
Its very unfortunate Miss O has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have done more to 
prevent Miss O from losing this money.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman