DRN-3789207
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt address its issue with 
telephone banking and provided poor service leading to the closure of its account.
What happened
The director of K explains that the numbers on a security device used to access online 
banking were fading and requested a replacement. The director didnt know the password 
for telephone banking and so wasnt able to discuss the account. She was unhappy to be 
told that branch staff couldnt deal with a business banking account anymore. She uploaded 
a form for K to reset telephone banking and handed another into a branch in November 
2021. But neither were dealt with. Shed tried to complete a required safeguard review for K 
online. And although K was told that more information was needed this wasnt set out and 
due to the access problems couldnt be completed. K says the account was closed in March 
2022 as a consequence of what happened. 
HSBC said that it accepted that it had provided poor service and paid K £350 in 
compensation. The telephone banking access for K had been locked on 11 November 2021 
as the director wasnt able to answer security questions. It said that the forms K had 
submitted had expired and would need to be resent. It had sent a new security device and 
an activation code in March 2022. HSBC explained how K could complete the safeguard 
review. It accepted that K had made multiple calls and that call waiting times could exceed 
its targets. And that there was now a more limited role for branches for business banking 
customers and K didnt qualify for a relationship manager.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything further. It wasnt in dispute that 
HSBC hadnt addressed the request by K for telephone banking to be reset. And K had been 
paid £350 to reflect this and the inconvenience involved. Nothing more could be done as the 
account had been closed. However, he thought K had the opportunity to complete the 
safeguard review as HSBC had told it about the requirements in September 2021 and the 
last recorded log on from K online was on 1 December 2021. This was after HSBC had told 
K that there were outstanding points and how to deal with these online. 
K didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said that none of the 
issues raised about telephone banking had been dealt with by HSBC or answered. The point 
isnt about the closure of the account which was the consequence. K said the compensation 
doesnt deal with this and what was involved including time on the phone, and the effort and 
frustration. K said that it had completed the safeguard review and only received a general 
response which didnt set out what was missing. The director remained unhappy that HSBC 
hadnt resolved things but instead said that K could refer this to our service. It could have 
called the director especially as branch staff could no longer deal with business accounts. K 
maintained that it should have been contacted by a relationship manager. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that K refers to the issue of telephone banking access as key here. But it has 
also made complaint points about the safeguard review in its response so I will be looking at 
all the issues I think are relevant.
As far as telephone banking was concerned K explains that it hadnt been used for a period 
and that the director couldnt remember the security information. I can see that HSBC said 
that as a result access was locked which meant that it was more limited in how it could deal 
with calls from K. The process was for K to submit a reset form. And its not in dispute that K 
did so twice in November 2021, and nothing was done. HSBC says in its final response that 
K would need to do this again. So, I can understand why the director says that nothing had 
been resolved and that errors were made.
The account was closed, and HSBC says this was because K hadnt completed the 
safeguard review. I understand Ks concerns about not being able to access online banking 
if the security device stopped working. And that it took steps to try to address this. As our 
investigator points out there did appear to be time to complete the safeguard review in any 
event. HSBC says it first contacted K about this on 6 September 2021. In a letter of 27 
November 2021, it said that it explained that it had returned the forms to K and these could 
be accessed through online banking and there was a comments section setting out what 
was needed. And on 30 November 2021 it wrote to K to say it had requested the information 
on a number of occasions and that it was going to be withdrawing its account. On 10 
February 2022 it wrote to K to acknowledge that some of the information had been provided 
and the closure date had been extended until 11 March 2022. And it asked K to call about 
this. Taking all this into account Im not persuaded that the closure of the account was the 
consequence of the issues with telephone banking.
It's a matter for HSBC to decide what to provide in branch and whether K is allocated a 
specific relationship manager. HSBC accepts that it provided poor service and that K called 
many times. Im satisfied that the final response letter told K what it still needed to do. I 
appreciate that the director says that this reflected the past lack of action and I agree. And 
thats why I can see HSBC paid K £350 in compensation and explained why.
The account is now closed and that was a commercial decision for HSBC. I need to think 
about whether the compensation for what happened is sufficient. I take into account that K, 
the complainant here, is a separate legal entity to the director and cant suffer distress. And 
also, our published guidelines about compensation. Having done so I find that the 
compensation already paid was a fair response and I wont be requiring HSBC to do 
anything further. I know that this will be a disappointment for the director.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc does 
not need to take any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman