DRN-4112533
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss he suffered 
when he sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 Mr F was sadly the victim of a 
scam. He sent £15,000 from his account with his own bank S to an account held with 
HSBC.
At the time Mr F believed he was making a legitimate investment into a fixed term bond, but 
he later learned hed been scammed. In January 2022 Mr F complained to HSBC. He didnt 
think theyd done enough to prevent his loss. 
HSBC responded and said that Mr F should raise this through S and gave referral rights to 
our service. Being unhappy with this response, Mr F referred his complaint to us. One of our 
Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she didnt think there were 
any failures by HSBC which caused or contributed to Mr Fs loss. 
Mr F disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr F feels strongly that HSBC should refund his loss and feels its unfair that the 
bank is unwilling to do so. But I want to be clear that unwittingly falling victim to a scam 
doesnt entitle the victim (here Mr F) to a refund from the bank that received their money. In 
these circumstances I could only direct HSBC to reimburse Mr F for his loss if Im satisfied 
they did something wrong where it would be fair and reasonable to ask them to provide a 
refund. 
When considering complaints of this nature, I can understand why, with the benefit of 
hindsight, its sometimes easy to say the recipient bank ought to have identified the activity 
on the account as fraud and shouldve done more to prevent the loss, or they couldve done 
more to assist in the recovery of the funds upon receipt of notification of fraud. However, I 
must be clear, when deciding this complaint, I need to think about what HSBC knew at the 
time  not what is known today. And where it is supposed (as is the case here) that HSBC 
didnt do enough. My role is to look into the individual circumstances of the case and decide 
(within my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), based on what I have seen, whether they 
should have fairly and reasonably done more.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied HSBC carried out appropriate checks to verify the 
identity of the recipient accountholder (in line with its regulatory obligations) when opening 
the account. So, it follows that I dont think there is any reason, based on the opening of the 
account, to ask HSBC to do more here.
  
Ive reviewed the account statements prior to Mr Fs payment arriving and have also 
considered whether there was anything, prior to Mr Fs notification that ought to have alerted 
HSBC to the possibility of fraud. Im satisfied none of the account activity ought to have 
stood out to HSBC as unusual or suspicious such that they ought to have done more. So, I 
dont think there have been any failings by HSBC regarding the monitoring of the recipient 
account, so I cant say it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Fs loss in this way either.
Im also satisfied that HSBC responded appropriately when they received notification of 
fraud from Mr F. It is standard industry practice for claims to be made by the sending bank 
on behalf of their customer. This is in part to mitigate the risk of malicious claims (which is 
not something Im suggesting has happened here). So, I cant say HSBC were wrong to refer 
Mr F back to S in the first instance. 
Mr F has also said that HSBC didnt properly investigate his complaint when he made it. 
Pointing out that our services jurisdiction allows complaints about receiving banks and that 
we generally expect people to complain to the business first, before they can come to us. 
Ive considered this but it doesnt impact the outcome of this complaint. Nothing HSBC could 
have done at that point would have impacted whether a recovery could have been made. 
And HSBCs complaint response gave referral rights to our service (which Mr F duly made 
use of) as he remained unhappy. 
Unfortunately, however, by the time HSBC had been told that Mr Fs payment had been 
made as a result of a scam, Mr Fs funds had already left the recipient account (in fact these 
were spent very soon after arriving). So, I dont think there were any failings that prevented 
Mr F recovering his money. 
Mr F also says that he believes the account he paid was in the name of a business. And that 
on companies house it shows that this businesses sole director had resigned in December 
2020, before Mr F made his payment to the account. He believes there was therefore no-one 
with the appropriate authority to instruct payments from the account. He says the implication 
of this is that the payments made during this time (which includes the spending of his funds) 
were unauthorised and should therefore be credited back to the account by HSBC. And they 
would then be available for recovery. 
I understand the argument Mr F is making, but I dont agree. A claim of unauthorised 
payments is one for the accountholder to make. As far as HSBC are concerned, if the 
payments were instructed and correctly authenticated, they have no reason to believe it was 
anyone other than someone authorised to make payments on behalf of a limited company. 
And Ive not seen evidence to support that HSBC have received a report of unauthorised 
payments from their customer. There is no requirement for payments from a limited 
companys account to be authorised by a director. Its possible for there to be multiple 
persons with such authority in relation to a business account. As such, Im not persuaded 
that the outgoing payments were unauthorised or that this is a reasonable basis upon which 
I can direct that HSBC need to do more. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr F lost so much money to a scam. And if he hasnt already done 
so he could consider speaking to his own bank about this matter. But as I dont think (within 
the scope of my jurisdiction) that HSBC did anything that caused the loss or hindered its 
recovery, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman