DRN-1970900
The complaint
Miss I complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasn't settled her home emergency policy 
claim fairly.
All references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Miss I was having a problem with her boiler, so she arranged for a repair under her home 
insurance (home emergency cover) policy with Aviva.
Aviva sent an engineer around to her property, but he couldn't fix the boiler because a new 
gas valve needed to be ordered. A couple of weeks later an engineer returned with the new 
part but couldn't fit it because the gas connector was broken. Aviva tried to source a new 
connector but wasn't able to do so as the part was obsolete. So, it offered Miss I £500 
towards a replacement boiler.
Miss I arranged for a private engineer to look at her boiler. The engineer said it looked like 
the connector might have been damaged when the previous engineer had tried to remove 
the part.
Miss I was unhappy with Avivas offer of £500. She believed Avivas engineer was 
responsible for her boiler needing to be replaced. So, she felt Aviva should pay the full cost 
of the new boiler she needed to buy.
Aviva disputed that the connector was damaged by its engineer during the repair. It said that 
as there was no evidence the damage had been caused by its engineers poor 
workmanship, it had paid Miss I £500 towards a new boiler per her policys terms and 
conditions.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 May 2020 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Miss Is complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss I, but based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
reach a different conclusion to our investigator. This means that I dont plan to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require Aviva to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Aviva has offered to settle Miss Is claim in line with its terms and conditions which say:
In the unlikely event that your main heating system is declared beyond economical repair, 
we will advise you to replace it and will contribute £500 towards the cost of a new boiler or 
electric heater. You are responsible for arranging a replacement.Miss I isn't satisfied that this is sufficient. She says the Aviva engineer damaged her boiler 
and she wouldn't have needed to have it replaced if they hadn't done so. Shes provided a 
copy of an email from the independent engineer shed asked to look at her boiler. This says:
The connecting piece from the gas valve to which would have connected the isolation valve 
had split in 3 places with signs of room markings on the inside which could have been 
caused by the attempted removal of this part.
The Aviva engineers who visited Miss Is property said the gas connector was already 
damaged  theyd discovered a hairline crack. Theyve said: On removing the gas valve we 
discovered the damaged connector, we did not attempt to remove connector tail from the 
gas valve. We followed the unsafe working procedures and ordered a new connector. 
Unfortunately this part was not available anymore
Ive considered the information from both engineers. The independent engineer said that the 
damage could have been caused by the attempted removal of the valve. It doesn't say that 
it definitely was. I acknowledge that theyve said the connector had split while the Aviva 
engineer has referred to a hairline crack. But I dont think this slight difference in wording is 
enough to say that the Aviva engineers account of what happened isnt right. And I havent 
seen any other evidence to persuade me that the Aviva engineers damaged Ms Is boiler.
Even if I was persuaded that Aviva was responsible for the damage to the connector, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask it to reimburse her for a new boiler. Miss Is boiler was 19 years 
old and from what Ive been told, she was experiencing problems with it repeatedly cutting 
out when she asked Aviva to have a look at it. So, it seems likely that it would soon have 
needed to be replaced anyway. 
Avivas terms allow for it to contribute £500 towards the cost of a new one if a boiler is 
declared beyond economical repair. In this case Aviva was unable to arrange for Miss Is 
boiler to be repaired. So, I think it was fair for it to offer her £500 instead.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me further information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Aviva said it didn't have anything further to add. 
Miss I said:
She only called Aviva once when her boiler cut. It would work for a few hours and 
then go off by itself. It would work again when the boiler was restarted. There were 
several visits from engineers because they couldn't work out what the problem was. 
The boiler stopped working altogether after new pipes were installed. 
She had been without heating or hot water for at least four weeks when an engineer 
told her he could not fit the valve because it had been modified and wouldn't fit into 
the connector. When they told her the connector was obsolete, she didn't believe 
them because shed been told various different things. She arranged for an 
independent engineer to come and look at the boiler. The engineer told her the 
connector had been broken when someone was trying to remove the valve from the 
connector. So, she called Aviva and told them they would have to pay to replace her 
boiler because they broke it. 
If she had planned to replace her boiler, she wouldn't have waited for over five weeks 
for Aviva to try to fix it. She bought a new boiler because Aviva made her boiler 
unrepairable by damaging a part of it thats off the market. The Aviva engineers were the only ones with access to the boiler when the valve was 
broken. When Miss I asked the independent engineer to write down what he told her, 
he said he didn't want to get anyone in trouble. That was why he used the words 
could have been, when he definitely told her it was broken by someone trying to 
remove the valve. Miss I asked Aviva to send someone else out to verify what the 
independent engineer had said. In her opinion, Aviva was negligent in refusing to 
come out and have another look.
She thought it was unreasonable to say that they age of the boiler excuses Avivas 
actions. She had a semi-functional boiler before Aviva got involved but by the end 
she had nothing. It would be fairer to require Aviva to pay at least half of the cost of 
the new boiler if I cant say beyond a reasonable doubt that it didn't break the boiler. 
My decision shouldn't hinge on whether or not the boiler was old, it should be based 
on whether or not Aviva broke it. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss I feels very strongly that Aviva damaged her boiler and she wouldn't have needed to 
replace it if it hadn't done so. But to uphold Miss Is complaint, Id need to be persuaded that 
this was most likely to have been what happened. And the independent engineers 
suggestion that the connector could have been caused by the attempted removal of the 
part isn't strong enough evidence to persuade me, when weighed up against the other 
information I have.
Miss I says Aviva was negligent by refusing to arrange for another engineer to verify what 
the independent engineer said. But Aviva says this wouldn't have been of any use as they 
would only have reported the connector was broken at the time. And I think this is 
reasonable.
I appreciate that Miss I doesn't feel the age of the boiler is relevant. But I think this does 
have some bearing when trying to establish the likelihood of Aviva being responsible for the 
boiler needing to be replaced. Boilers have a limited lifespan and Miss I says herself that her 
boiler was semi-functional before Aviva got involved. 
As Ive said, I dont have strong enough evidence to show me that Aviva caused the damage 
to the connector. And Aviva wasn't able to fix the boiler because the connector was 
obsolete. So, I think it acted reasonably by paying Miss I £500 towards the cost of a new 
boiler.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Miss I who has had to spend a significant amount 
of money on a new boiler. But having carefully considered her points, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman