DRN-1469629
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) made excessive charges to his account 
over the past 6 years and should have been aware he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr O holds a Graduate Account with Santander and feels over the past six years he has 
been charged excessive amounts of bank charges and Santander should have realised he 
was having financial difficulties. Mr O feels Santander havent acted in line with expected 
codes of conduct.
As a result of these charges, he is suffering financial difficulties and stress. He feels the bank 
charges for this period should be refunded. 
Santander say they gave a refund of one months bank charges to Mr O as a one-off 
goodwill gesture, but at no time did he inform them he was having financial difficulties. 
Santander say he was clearly advised of charges to his account by various methods and 
these are also included in the terms and conditions of his account. They were surprised that 
it had taken Mr O six years to raise this issue with them. 
Mr O disagreed with Santanders view and referred the case to this service.
The investigator gathered all the relevant information but didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. The 
investigator said that Santander had no records to show Mr O had advised them of his 
financial difficulties and they had charged his account in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. The investigator felt the £75 refund made by Santander had been made as a 
gesture of goodwill and they didnt need to do anything else here. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigator and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and I will explain 
how I have come to my decision.
When considering Mr Os complaint I have looked at whether Santander should have been 
aware of his financial difficulties and whether the fees charged to his account were fair and 
reasonable. 
I can see that it would be difficult for Mr O to cover his day to day living expenses as a 
student with minimal income and then be faced with regular monthly bank charges. 
Mr O says that he faced regular monthly fees on his account and this service has been 
provided with a comprehensive breakdown of the fees he refers to over a three period 
between 2015-2018. These fees are as a result of either paid/unpaid transactions, 
unarranged overdraft usage fees. 
Mr O says that the fact he regularly exceeded his overdraft, was declined a loan was 
evidence he was suffering financial difficulties and under the Lending Code section 9 and 
Banking Conduct of Business, Santander had a responsibility to help customers they have 
reason to believe is in financial difficulty and therefore havent treated him fairly as a result. 
The first occasion I can see that Mr O mentions his financial problems is in 2019, following 
which the complaint was referred to this service.  
Mr O says that the account operation and number of fees charged should have alerted 
Santander to his financial difficulties. Santander have advised that there was nothing flagged 
on the account to indicate they would be alerted to this. I have considered this point and 
have been provided with Mr Os bank transactions for the period he was being charged. 
From what I have seen I am satisfied that the account does fluctuate within the agreed 
overdraft limit, although on the occasions the account did exceed the limit, it was quickly 
brought back within the agreed arranged overdraft with regular credits to his account each 
month.  I am satisfied that the account activity I have seen wouldnt have given Santander 
cause to believe he was in financial difficulty here.
The charges to his account were detailed in his terms and conditions, which have been 
provided to this service, and it is worth saying that the account was interest and charge free 
if he had maintained his account within the approved credit limit.  
I have considered Mr Os view that because he was declined a loan by Santander this was 
further evidence he was in financial difficulties and while l can see he may feel that, loans 
can be declined for varying reasons but thats not to say when a loan is declined it is 
because of financial difficulties. It may just be a case that the applicant doesnt meet the 
criteria set for the loan requested. It follows that I am satisfied this wouldnt have given cause 
for Santander to believe he was having financial difficulties.  
The lending guidance Mr O refers to does, as Mr O says, gives advice on what Santander, 
like most banks, should do when they have reason to suspect a customer is in financial 
difficulty and this service expects businesses to treat customers fairly in those 
circumstances. What is important here is whether Santander should have known that, or as 
the rules also suggest, if the customer took the responsibility of advising them of any 
financial problems he was facing. 
I have considered these points raised by Mr O, but there was also a responsibility on his part 
to advise Santander he was having financial problems - but from the information available to 
me I cant see any evidence that he did. I can see that phone calls took place with Santander 
and they agreed to refund £75 of charges in 2015 as a gesture of goodwill but there is no 
evidence provided by either party to suggest Mr O mentions having financial difficulties at 
this time, or any time before or after this. I can see that Santander when making the goodwill 
gesture advised Mr O how to avoid future charges going forward and this is what I would 
expect to see.
While I am sorry to learn that Mr O was suffering health problems and stress  I dont feel 
that over the period in question here he didnt have the opportunity to have raised this with 
Santander. On balance, I dont think that because Mr O had regular charges to his account 
was sufficient reason for Santander to have approached him to discuss his financial position, 
as his account was operating in line with the intended purpose of the student/graduate 
account he had.
While I know that Mr O will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore of Santander here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman