DRN-4123674
The complaint
Miss S complains that Eridge Underwriting Agency Limited (Eridge) declined a claim under 
her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S had a motor insurance policy with Eridge covering her vehicle, which is a pick-up 
type. She took out the policy using a price comparison website and via a broker, who doesnt 
form part of this complaint.
Cover started in December 2021 and during the application process she described herself 
on the website as self-employed and said her business was as an Animal Breeder.
In January 2022 Miss S was involved in a major incident with a third party, and her vehicle 
was severely damaged.
She made a claim and Eridge declined it. It said she had mis-declared her occupation as she 
wasnt earning an income from animal breeding. It said she had made a careless 
misrepresentation and she should have said she was a houseperson, not in employment, or 
unemployed.
It voided the policy ab initio and refused to refund the premium as there was a third-party 
claim in progress.
Miss S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. 
She said Eridge should reinstate the policy and consider the claim. It should issue a letter of 
apology and remove records of the policy being voided. She also said it should pay Miss S 
£500 for her distress and inconvenience. 
Miss S agreed with the view, but Eridge didnt. It maintained that itd had no confirmation of 
Miss Ss self-employment, so it regarded her statement as a misrepresentation. It said it 
wouldnt have covered Miss S if shed disclosed that she was a houseperson or 
unemployed.
Because Eridge didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the file of evidence Ive been provided and I can see that Eridges approach to Miss 
Ss claim has been very poor.
At the heart of this complaint is Miss Ss answer to the questions asked on the price 
comparison website about her occupation. I can see that she answered Self-Employed as 
an Animal Breeder in the trade of Animal Breeding. 
Its Eridges position that Miss S wasnt doing this activity. Our investigator asked Eridge to 
clarify what it meant by Self-employed but Eridge didnt have any further information to 
supply. It provided some information from the government website about what self-
employment might mean.
Our investigator asked Miss S what information she might be able to supply to show she was 
self-employed. Ive looked at this information and there is nothing in it to say that Miss S is 
NOT self-employed. I emphasise that point because Miss S has provided extensive 
anecdotal evidence about what she was planning to do with her business  which she was in 
the process of setting up. 
For example, I can see that she was intending to breed from a dog, which typically come into 
heat every six months. Ive thought about what this would mean, and I think its fair to say 
that a business such as this starting from scratch would necessarily have a lengthy lead-in to 
generating an income. Certainly six months for the first litter, then weaning, advertising and 
selling. Although Miss S has extensive knowledge in this field, I think its reasonable to say 
that most buyers would expect to see a track record in breeding from the animal before they 
buy its offspring.
All of this indicates to me that its very likely Miss S was a self-employed animal breeder at 
the time she bought the policy and that she correctly disclosed that status to Eridge.
I dont think Eridges rebuttal of this point is acceptable. 
It hasnt shown me evidence to say what it would expect to see as proof of self-employment 
as part of its underwriting procedures. Its mentioned getting some suitable information, and 
timescales, but I dont think its fair that it does this at the point of claim.
So it follows that I dont think Miss S misrepresented her occupation and Eridge hasnt acted 
fairly towards her.
In order to put things right for Miss S, I will require Eridge to put her back in the same 
situation she was before the incident happened. I cant ask that Eridge reinstate Miss Ss 
policy as that may mean it backdates cover. But I can require Eridge to handle Miss Ss 
claim under the remaining terms and conditions of her policy as if it existed.
Im also requiring Eridge to remove reference to avoiding Miss Ss policy from its own and 
any external databases. Having done this, Eridge should write to Miss S confirming this fact 
and telling her she does not need to tell insurers about the cancellation and avoidance in 
future.
Miss S has told this service about the distress shes suffered from both the incident and 
Eridges handling of her claim. I can see that she continues to suffer from this and Id like to 
offer my best wishes for the future.. Shes also talked about the inconvenience of not having 
a vehicle and relying on friends and family for lifts for some considerable time. 
Taking this into account, I think a suitable level of compensation is £500.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Eridge Underwriting Agency Limited 
to:
Handle Miss Ss claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy, as if it 
existed.Remove any reference to her policy being cancelled or avoided from its own 
database and any other databases it has updated.
Write Miss S a letter confirming this has been done and that she does not need to 
declare the avoidance in future.
Pay Miss S £500 for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman