DRN-3030474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) declined their 
claim for medical and travel expenses incurred after they contracted Covid-19 whilst abroad. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F booked a trip to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to stay with family. Alongside 
their flight tickets, they purchased a single trip travel insurance policy which was 
underwritten by AIG. 
They flew to the UAE on 22 December 2020 and their intended return date was 16 January 
2021. They tested negative for Covid-19 both before they left the UK and also when they 
arrived in the UAE. 
On 6 January 2021, Mr and Mrs F took a test but the results were positive for Covid-19. 
They contacted AIG to inform it of the results. In accordance with the UAE government 
guidance, Mr and Mrs F had to self-isolate for 14 days. They couldnt therefore return to the 
UK as theyd planned. Their flight provider (A) rescheduled their flights for return on 
20 January 2021 which was subject to them testing negative for Covid-19 after the 14 days. 
They carried out a further test on 18 January 2021 and still tested positive, so A changed 
their flights to open tickets. They continued to stay with family and further tests were done on 
25 January 2021, where they both tested positive and again on 26 January 2021, where only 
Mrs F tested negative. A final test was done on 29 January 2021, where Mr F also tested 
negative. They kept AIG informed of what was happening.
On 28 January 2021, the UK Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
announced that travel to the UK from certain countries (including the UAE) would be banned 
from 1pm on 29 January 2021 to prevent the spread of a new Covid-19 variant. But as 
British Nationals, Mr and Mrs F could arrange to return to the UK as theyd tested negative 
for Covid-19. Additionally, the UK governments new travel restrictions included a ban on 
direct passenger flights from the UAE. This meant Mr and Mrs F couldnt fly directly back to 
the UK using their open flight ticket provided by A.
Mr and Mrs F were left with options to fly with A to one of two European cities, stay there for 
24 hours, test negative for Covid-19 again before entering the UK. So, on 30 January 2021, 
they flew to one of the cities utilising their open ticket and then taking a further flight from 
there (with a separate flight provider  B) the next day. They returned to the UK on 31 
January 2021. 
On their return, they submitted a claim to AIG for the following costs incurred:
Covid-19 tests carried out while abroad;
Payments made for quarantine/isolation while abroad;
Additional expenses paid for while returning back to the UK;
Additional flights from the European city to the UK; and
Accommodation for the overnight stay in the city.
Mr and Mrs F provided AIG details of their claim, including all expenses and receipts.
AIG declined their claim on the basis that Mr and Mrs F were staying with family in the UAE 
and that they didnt require medical attention. AIG said their claim fell outside the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy.
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with AIGs decision and made a complaint to it. AIG reviewed 
the claim and paid the cost of Mr and Mrs Fs first Covid-19 tests (£59.89) carried out on 
5 January 2021. It also confirmed that its decision not to accept the rest of the claim 
remained. 
Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and partly upheld it. Shed considered the policy terms and conditions and where 
the various cost claims fell under. She thought, in summary:
Mr and Mrs F didnt meet the policy criteria to benefit from a quarantine payment as 
they stayed with family while they were self-isolating in the UAE;
As Mr and Mrs F would have incurred costs for airport food and fuel if they had 
returned to the UK as planned, our investigator didnt think these costs would be 
covered under the policy. She thought it was reasonable for AIG not to have paid out 
for these;
In terms of the medical (Covid-19 tests), return flight and the accommodation costs, 
she thought while Mr and Mrs F wouldnt be covered under the travel delay and 
abandonment and missed departure sections, she did think the costs could be 
provided under the emergency medical expenses section of the policy terms. She 
thought, strictly speaking, the claim for these could fall outside the criteria in this 
section. However, as the Covid-19 tests were carried out in a hospital and that they 
were crucial to the continued monitoring of their health while in the UAE, and the 
determination of whether they could return to the UK, it would be reasonable for AIG 
to consider these costs under this policy term. She explained that Mr and Mrs F 
would not have stayed in the UAE and would have returned to the UK on 16 January 
2021 had it not been medically necessary. 
She recommended overall that AIG accept and settle Mr and Mrs Fs claim for the 
overnight accommodation, the return flight cost from the European city to the UK, 
and the medical costs relating to the Covid-19 tests carried out less the one test each 
that AIG had already paid out on.
AIG didnt agree with our investigator. It said the circumstances that Mr and Mrs F found 
themselves in were due to the pandemic which they were very much aware of and travelling 
during these uncertain times carried the risk of different rules being imposed as and when 
necessary. For this reason, it didnt agree it would be fair to cover the additional costs. AIG 
said the policy terms and conditions are clear with regards to what is covered when it comes 
to the current pandemic as well as the normal stipulations. Every eventuality relating to the 
pandemic cannot be covered.
As AIG didnt agree, the complaint has now been referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant rules and industry
guidelines say that AIG has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The key issue I need to decide is whether AIG has considered the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy and whether in doing so, theyve have been 
treated fairly and reasonably. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr and Mrs F have referred 
to various costs and provided receipts for all the expenses they incurred. These relate to 
different sections of the policy, so Ive separated these below and will refer to each in turn. 
Overseas Quarantine Allowance
The specific term states:
C.3. Overseas Quarantine Allowance
Please note: This benefit is only payable for the time that You are placed into an
unexpected mandatory Quarantine Overseas and ceases if You are required to
Quarantine upon Your return to Your Country of Residence. This amount is meant to
help You pay reasonable and necessary accommodation costs directly related to 
Your Quarantine.
What You are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits if while on an Overseas 
Trip, You are unexpectedly placed into a mandatory Quarantine outside Your 
Country of Residence by an order of a governmental body for one of the following 
two reasons:
You test positive for a communicable disease the outbreak of which is declared
an Epidemic or Pandemic; or
Such governmental body identifies You or any Travelling Companion,
specifically, as having been exposed to a communicable disease the outbreak of
which is declared an Epidemic or Pandemic.
We will pay to cover reasonable and necessary accommodation costs directly related 
to such Quarantine up to the amount specified in the Table of Benefits for up to 14
consecutive days.
Looking at the above, its clear the policy does provide cover for unplanned accommodation 
in the event theres a pandemic. However, while there is cover on their policy, when Mr and 
Mrs F tested positive for Covid-19, they had to self-isolate for 14 days. They didnt stay in 
separate accommodation and instead stayed with family. My understanding therefore is that 
they didnt incur any additional unplanned accommodation costs in relation to this.
The policy provides a quarantine allowance of £100 per day for 14 consecutive days so I can 
appreciate Mr and Mrs F believe they are entitled to claim for this. And if they incurred a cost 
for this, its likely the policy would have covered them. But, in the circumstances here, as 
they stayed with family, Im satisfied they dont meet the policy criteria and its fair and 
reasonable for AIG to decline their claim for the quarantine benefit.  
Additional general costs Mr and Mrs F had to stay overnight in a European city on their return journey. They incurred 
costs for food (during overnight stay) and fuel (when their daughter picked them up from the 
airport). There are some general exclusions that apply to the overall policy and general 
exclusion 21 states:
We will not cover the following
21. Any costs which You would have been liable to pay had the reason for the 
Claim not occurred (for example, the cost of food which You would have paid for in 
any case).
Ive considered this exclusion in relation to Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. Had everything 
gone to plan and Mr and Mrs F hadnt contracted Covid-19, they would have returned to the 
UK as planned on 16 January 2021. In doing so, its most likely they would have incurred 
costs such as food at the airport and had travel costs in returning home, regardless of what 
date they returned, and they would have had to pay for these in any case. So, while I 
understand their reasons for submitting a claim for these costs, I dont think AIG have 
treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly in declining this part of the claim as theres an overall general 
exclusion in relation to this part of the claim which I think is clear. I dont think AIG has done 
anything wrong here. 
Medical, travel and accommodation costs
Ive considered here the element of Mr and Mrs Fs claim which relates to the medical 
(Covid-19 tests) costs, the cost of the additional flights and also the overnight 
accommodation cost, while returning to the UK.
AIG refers to two specific sections of the policy terms and in considering this, it declined Mr 
and Mrs Fs claim. The specific terms and conditions are as follows:
SECTION B  PERSONAL BELONGINGS AND TRAVEL INCONVENIENCE
B.6. Travel Delay and Abandonment
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits if Your departure from 
Your Country of Departure by aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train or any other mode 
of conveyance of public transport is delayed for more than 12 hours due to poor 
weather conditions, a strike, industrial action or mechanical breakdown. We will pay a 
benefit for each complete 12-hour period that You are delayed
and, 
B.7. Missed Departure
Specific definition relating to section B.7
Public Transport: A bus, coach, ferry, sea-vessel or train operating according to a
published timetable or any other mode of conveyance of Public Transport.
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for the reasonable extra
costs of travel and accommodation You need to arrive at Your booked holiday
destination if You cannot reach the departure point on the outward or return travel 
from or to Your Country of Departure because:
Public Transport services (please refer to the definition of 'Public Transport'above) fail due to poor weather conditions, a strike, industrial action or
mechanical breakdown; or
The vehicle in which You are travelling is directly involved in an Accident or
suffers a mechanical breakdown or immobilisation.
In applying a strict interpretation of the terms, I agree with AIG that Mr and Mrs Fs policy 
doesnt provide cover for their claim. The event (Mr and Mrs F testing positive and 
contracting Covid-19) happened while they were at their destination and, as a result of this, 
Mr and Mrs F had to delay their return journey to the UK. In other words, the event itself falls 
outside of the above policy terms and conditions as set out above as its not one of the listed 
events that would provide cover under those sections of the policy.
Our service is however permitted to also consider whether AIG has looked at the claim in a 
fair and reasonable way. With that in mind, Ive gone on to consider whether there are other 
sections of the policy which would have offered the benefit of cover to Mr and Mrs F. 
On page 15, section C1 of the policy document sets out what cover is available for 
emergency medical expenses and states:
C.1. Emergency Medical Expenses
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for the necessary and
reasonable costs as a result of You becoming ill (including due to any Epidemic or
Pandemic), being injured or dying during Your Trip. This includes:
1. Emergency medical, surgical and Hospital treatment and ambulance/transportation
costs.
2. Emergency dental treatment up to £260 as long as it is for the immediate relief of
pain only.
3. The cost of Your return to Your Country of Residence earlier than planned if this is
medically necessary and the Assistance Department approve this.
4. If You cannot return to Your Country of Residence as You originally planned and 
the Assistance Department approves this, We will pay for:
a. Extra accommodation and travel expenses (economy class unless a higher
grade of travel is confirmed as medically necessary and authorised by the
Assistance Department) including the cost of a medical escort, if necessary, to
allow You to return to Your Country of Residence
Mr and Mrs Fs claim for medical costs related to the Covid-19 tests that were carried out in 
the UAE. I appreciate they werent admitted to hospital and neither did they receive any 
medical treatment other than the tests that were carried out. 
However, the policy does cover reasonable costs as a result of a policyholder becoming ill 
and the list of costs insured isnt exhaustive. And, the policy also covers extra 
accommodation and travel expenses if the policyholder cant return home as originally 
planned as a result of illness. That includes being ill due to an epidemic and pandemic. 
I can see from the evidence provided, Mr and Mrs F carried out the tests in an American 
hospital in the UAE. The regular tests were a requirement to monitor their health and were 
important to determine whether Mr and Mrs F were eligible to return home once they no 
longer had Covid-19. As such they needed to have more than just the one test. And, I can 
see, as soon as they tested negative, they arranged their return flight back to the UK. 
Therefore, it was medically necessary for them stay in the UAE until they tested negative.In the circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be reasonable for AIG to pay for the 
cost of the Covid-19 tests Mr and Mrs F had to carry out in the UAE. I think the tests they 
had to have were both necessary and reasonable.
 
And in looking at this alongside the additional flights they had to arrange as well as the 
additional overnight stay in the city, I think its fair and reasonable that, by extension, these 
costs should also be covered by AIG. While I agree that costs of food and fuel expenses 
arent covered and are listed as a specific exclusion under that policy term, I do think its 
reasonable for AIG to cover the additional fight and overnight stay costs. 
I say this because it was never Mr and Mrs Fs intention to stay longer than they had 
planned, and they continued to test positive beyond their return travel date of 
16 January 2020. They tested positive for Covid-19 and that was the cause of them not 
being able to return home as planned and incurring additional travel costs. Due to 
circumstances which were out of their control, Mr and Mrs F incurred expenses which 
werent planned for. They returned to the UK as soon as they tested negative for Covid-19 
and while Mrs F could have returned sooner, I dont think it was unreasonable for her to 
have waited until Mr F had also tested negative and for them to travel back together. 
Mr and Mrs F had to extend their stay in the UAE because of medical reasons and not 
because of a border closure. They had to extend their stay until such time that they tested 
negative from a Covid-19 test. 
I appreciate the travel situation changed but the crux of the issue was that Mr and Mrs F 
could only travel again once they tested negative. Therefore, the reason for their stay being 
extended was medical and it follows that they incurred additional expenses because they 
werent medically able to travel. 
I dont think the fact that the UK later introduced border restrictions, which meant Mr and Mrs 
F couldnt use their open return, means that AIG can fairly decline the claim. Mr and Mrs F 
needed to return to the UK later than planned because they tested positive for Covid-19 and 
incurred additional expenses as a result. As a result of the delay because of their illness, 
they needed to return via a different route, and I think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case for AIG to cover those additional costs.
In reaching that conclusion, Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs F made every effort to 
consider the costs of the flights and accommodation they paid  they looked for the most 
efficient way to return home and followed guidelines provided by the relevant governments. 
So, overall, I think its fair and reasonable for AIG to now consider and settle Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim for the additional flights and overnight stay under section C1 (Emergency Medical 
Expenses) of the policy terms and conditions. 
  
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for AIG to settle the claim for Mr and Mrs F for the following 
costs:
The Covid-19 tests carried in the UAE less the amount AIG has already paid for their 
first test;
Additional flights from the European city back to the UK; and
Overnight stay in the hotel.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against American 
International Group UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman