DRN-3890626
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid was irresponsible in its lending to her.
Mrs B is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mrs B 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs B was provided with a Fluid credit card by NewDay in October 2019. The credit limit was 
£450. The credit limit was increased on two occasions. Mrs B says that the lending was 
unaffordable.
NewDay says that before lending it carries out checks based on the information it receives 
through the application process, checks with credit reference agencies and any history it has 
with the applicant. It says that at the time of application, Mrs B declared an annual income of 
£15,000 with additional household income of £11,000 and had £400 of unsecured debt. It 
says Mrs B had two defaulted accounts with the most recent default being 61 months before 
the application, had no adverse public records, payday loans or accounts in arrears. It says 
based on this it was reasonable to provide a credit card with credit limit of £450.
Mrs Bs credit limit was increased to £1,700 in April 2020 and then to £2,950 in August 2020. 
NewDay says before the increases it carried out an evaluation of how Mrs B had been 
managing her account and other external accounts. It says Mrs B was contacted about the 
credit limit increases and could have opted out. It didnt accept the lending was irresponsible.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. She didnt think that the credit limit on Mrs Bs 
credit card should have been increased beyond £450.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The information gathered through the application process showed Mrs B as having 
an annual income of £15,000 and unsecured debt of £400. The credit search showed 
she had two defaults but as these were both historic (most recent 61 months 
previous to the application) and the credit results didnt show any accounts in arrears, 
adverse public records or payment arrangements, I didnt think the credit results 
meant that further checks were required. 
Noting the initial credit limit provided and Mrs Bs declared income I thought the 
checks were reasonable and I didnt find I had enough to say the initial lending 
decision with a credit limit of £450 was unreasonable.
In April 2020, Mrs Bs credit limit was increased to £1,700. Although Mrs B had the 
choice to opt out of the credit limit increase it was NewDays responsibility to ensure 
the additional lending was affordable. Mrs Bs account management showed she 
didnt start to use the card in October 2019 and the first balance was in her January 
2020 statement. Therefore, at the time of the limit increase, there was only three 
months worth of spending information available. During this period, Mrs B was 
charged an overlimit fee that was then reversed. Mrs B used just over 50% of the 
limit in the first months she started to use the credit card and then increased this to 
around the credit limit. While I saw Mrs B was making repayments and these were 
above the minimum requirement, I didnt think the account information was sufficient 
to give a clear indication that a limit increase, over three times the initial limit, would 
be sustainably affordable for Mrs B. Therefore, I thought that further checks should 
have taken place before this credit limit increase was applied.
Given the size of the limit increase and the account information I thought it would 
have been reasonable to get a more thorough understanding of Mrs Bs financial 
circumstances before increasing her credit limit. NewDay wasnt required to see 
Mrs Bs bank statements, but in the absence of anything else I considered the 
information contained in these as a good indication of what NewDay would have 
been aware of had further checks taken place.
I looked at bank statements for the three months leading up to the credit limit 
increase. These showed that Mrs Bs monthly income was just under £620. She had 
committed payments for utilities, credit costs (excluding payments to her Fluid credit 
card) of around £100. She was making repayment towards her Fluid credit card and 
these appeared to be slightly above the minimum required. Mrs B was also spending 
over £400 a month in supermarkets. So, while this left her with a low disposable 
income, her accounts werent showing signs of financial difficulty at this time and 
assessing the additional minimum repayment requirements, I didnt find I could say 
that further checks would have shown the credit limit increase to be unaffordable.
Mrs Bs credit limit was then increased to £2,950. Mrs B had exceeded the credit limit 
the month before the limit increase and noting the minimal disposable income 
available I thought a thorough check should have been carried out before any 
increase beyond £1,700 was applied. In this case the increase brought the limit to 
over six times the original credit amount. I looked through Mrs Bs bank statements 
and these didnt show any significant changes in her income or expenses and so, 
based on previous calculations and noting the amount of credit being provided 
compared to her income, I didnt think that this increase should have been 
considered sustainably affordable.
Based on the above I upheld Mrs Bs complain tin respect of the second credit limit increase.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out before the credit card 
was provided with an initial credit limit of £450 were reasonable. As these didnt suggested 
the lending was unaffordable, I do not find NewDay was wrong to provide Mr B with the 
credit card account.While I think further checks should have taken place before Mrs Bs credit limit was 
increased to £1,700 in April 2020, having looked at the information provided, I do not find I 
have enough to say that had these checks happened the additional lending would have been 
found to have been unaffordable.
However, I do not think that Mrs Bs credit limit should have been increased above £1,700. 
As I have previously explained, Mrs B had limited disposable income and considering the 
repayments on the increased credit limit against her income and noting her other expenses, I 
do not find that NewDay should have considered the credit limit increase in August 2020 to 
have been sustainably affordable for Mrs B.
Therefore, I uphold this complaint in respect to the second limit increase to £2,950 in August 
2020.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mrs Bs credit limit from £1,700, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit.
However, Mrs B has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I think she 
should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £1,700.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after August 2020 regarding this account from Mrs Bs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,700 NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B for the remaining amount. Once 
Mrs B has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
August 2020 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman