DRN-1313320
 
The complaint
Miss G complains that Insurance Factory Ltd applied a cancellation fee when she cancelled 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G intended to move to a new house, and she told Insurance Factory that she would be 
parking on the road rather than in a garage as she did currently. Her insurer wouldnt provide 
cover for this and so the policy was cancelled. Miss G has now taken cover for her new 
address with another insurer. But Miss G was unhappy that Insurance Factory charged her a 
cancellation fee.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss G 
should complain to the insurer if she was unhappy that it wouldnt provide cover at her new 
address. But he thought Insurance Factory had applied its cancellation fee fairly and 
reasonably and in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
Miss G replied that she hadnt cancelled the policy. She said it was the insurance company. 
She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss G feels frustrated that shes been charged a cancellation fee 
when the insurer was unable to provide cover at her new address. As the investigator has 
already explained, the decision to not provide cover was made by the policy underwriter, the 
insurer. So as this is a separate business, Im unable to consider this part of Miss Gs 
complaint here. I can see that a separate complaint against the insurer has been set up.
Miss G said she didnt cancel the policy. I can see in its response to her complaint that 
Insurance Factory said that a notice of cancellation was issued as the insurer didnt provide 
cover for cars parked on the road. And I can see that in the cancellation letter, Insurance 
Factory said the policy had been cancelled in line with its terms and conditions. 
So I think its clear that the policy was cancelled by Insurance Factory, not by Miss G, and it 
then applied its fees. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers 
acted in line with its Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Insurance Factorys Terms of Business. I think these clearly set out the 
cancellation arrangements and the fees charged by Insurance Factory. These dont 
distinguish between a policy cancelled by a consumer or one cancelled by Insurance 
Factory. So I dont think it makes a difference that Miss G didnt cancel the policy. 
Insurance Factorys list of fees include some non-refundable elements for the policy 
arrangement and a mid-term adjustment. The cancellation fee charged by Insurance Factory 
was £50, which I think is reasonable as its keeping with what other brokers charge. 
I think these fees are clearly set out in the Terms of Business that Insurance Factory sent to 
Miss G when she took out her policy. So I think Miss G was made reasonably aware of them 
and I think she would have agreed to them when she took out her policy. And I think they are 
clearly set out in the cancellation letter that Insurance Factory sent to Miss G. 
So I think Insurance Factory applied the cancellation fee fairly and reasonably and in 
keeping with its Terms of Business. So I cant say it treated Miss G unfairly or needs to 
waive its fee.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman