DRN-3646510
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice and level of service provided by Albert 
Goodman Financial Planning Limited (Albert Goodman) since 2009.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment. Both parties provided comments in response. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary of the key events that led to this 
complaint.
In 2003, Albert Goodman advised Mr M to start an open annuity with an initial 
investment of £249,250. Albert Goodman also advised Mr M on the underlying 
investments for the annuity  these were held on the Transact investment platform. 
The rules of the annuity contract required Mr M to draw a minimum level of income 
each year. Therefore, each year, a proportion of the underlying investments were 
sold and transferred, as a cash sum, to the annuity provider who would, in turn, use 
the money to provide monthly income to Mr M;
In 2009, Albert Goodman advised Mr M to switch the management of the underlying 
investments for the annuity from Transact to Quilters discretionary fund management 
(DFM) service;
In 2013, Albert Goodman advised Mr M to switch the management of the underlying 
investments for the annuity from Quilter to Brooks MacDonalds DFM service;
In line with the long-standing agreed process, in January 2019, Brooks MacDonald 
transferred a cash sum to the annuity provider so that it could provide monthly 
income to Mr M. He decided to change the annuity income payment frequency from 
monthly to annually in arrears, with the next annual payment scheduled for                  
March 2020. This change meant the annuity provider would hold cash of about 
£20,900 for over 12 months, pending the next annual payment. Mr M didnt want that 
to happen. So on 10 February 2019 he asked Albert Goodman to arrange for the 
excess cash held by the annuity provider to be reinvested by Brooks MacDonald. 
After retaining about £3,400 to cover charges and minimum balance requirements, 
the annuity provider returned the cash balance to Brooks MacDonald for 
reinvestment. Reinvestment occurred on 14 March 2019; and
In 2020, Mr M became aware that Albert Goodman offered a centralised investment 
proposition (CIP) but it hadnt recommended it to him. This upset him because the 
charges under the CIP were less than Brooks MacDonalds DFM service. 
This complaint
During 2020, Mr M complained to Albert Goodman. The issues complained about were 
broad and covered several events since 2009. These concerned the suitability of the switch 
advice provided by Albert Goodman in 2009 and 2013, failure to recommend investment in 
the CIP, the provision of misleading information about costs and charges, poor and 
unprofessional service and delays in acting on his instructions. Overall, in exchange for the 
fees it had been paid, he felt that Albert Goodman hadnt provided value for money and that 
he shouldve been advised in 2009 to retain investment on the Transact investment platform.
Albert Goodman didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It was content that the switch advice it had 
provided in 2009 and 2013 was appropriate for his circumstances and met his needs. It 
didnt think it had made any error regarding the CIP option because, while it came with lower 
costs, it wasnt actively managed unlike Brooks MacDonalds DFM service which, despite 
the higher costs, had generated better overall returns than the CIP. It noted that, as at            
March 2020, the value of Mr Ms investment portfolio was about £260,000 despite him 
having withdrawn £275,000 since 2003 following the initial investment of £249,250. It was 
satisfied that, in response to his concerns about costs, it had adequately explored and 
presented alternative options to reduce ongoing costs but he had declined these. While it 
accepted its adviser had mistakenly provided incorrect information relating to costs for which 
she had apologised, it was satisfied she had acted professionally and acted in his best 
interests.
Mr M didnt accept Albert Goodmans response and referred the matter to this service. Albert 
Goodman objected to this service considering the parts of Mr Ms complaint regarding its 
switch advice in 2009 and 2013 because it thought he had complained too late about those 
specific points.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. In his 
assessment he stated, in summary, that:
He couldnt consider the parts of Mr Ms complaint about Albert Goodmans switch 
advice in 2009 and 2013 because, in his opinion, he had complained too late under 
the rules of this service;
Albert Goodman wasnt at fault for not recommending its CIP to Mr M. 
Notwithstanding this point, the evidence confirmed that, after becoming aware of the 
CIP option, Mr M wasnt inclined to move his investment away from Brooks 
MacDonalds DFM service at that time;
Albert Goodman couldve provided a better level of service by responding sooner to 
Mr Ms email of 10 February 2019 in which he instructed it to arrange for excess cash 
held by the annuity provider to be reinvested by Brooks MacDonald. Reinvestment 
occurred on 14 March 2019. The investigator thought reinvestment couldve occurred 
on 20 February 2019 had Albert Goodman acted in good time; and
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Albert Goodman do two 
things. Firstly, pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused 
by the level of service he had received. Secondly, to carry out a loss assessment and 
pay any compensation due to Mr M on the basis that reinvestment of the excess 
cash was carried out by Brooks MacDonald on 20 February 2019 and not                         
14 March 2019.
While Albert Goodman accepted our investigators assessment, Mr M didnt. He provided 
comments in response. Our investigator considered those comments but wasnt persuaded 
to change the outcome of his assessment. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint has been referred to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
The nature of this service
Its clear that Mr M is unhappy about our investigators approach to assessing this complaint. 
He questioned the veracity of some of the documents provided by Albert Goodman and our 
investigators reliance on these in reaching his conclusion.
For Mr Ms benefit, I think its necessary to set out how this service reaches decisions. We 
were set up as an informal and free alternative to the courts. To use our service, consumers 
don't need to make their case in person. And theres no cross-examination, where both 
sides ask each other questions. We make decisions on the facts and evidence available in 
each case. Either side can tell us what they remember saying or being told. Written evidence 
or paperwork from the time is often very helpful. The decision we come to on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case may be different to what a court would 
decide applying legal rules. 
The purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by Mr M 
and Albert Goodman. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. If Mr M accepts this final decision in the 
specified timeframe, Albert Goodman must do what Ive told it to do. If Mr M doesn't want to 
accept this final decision, he doesn't have to. But it does mean our involvement has come to 
an end and Albert Goodman doesn't need to do anything. Mr M may still be able to take 
legal action against Albert Goodman, but we won't be involved in this. 
Ive considered all the evidence afresh. Despite Mr Ms concerns, I have no reason to 
question the veracity of the documents provided by Albert Goodman. Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator for the following reasons.
Albert Goodmans switch advice in 2009 and 2013
The investigator explained to Mr M that this service operates under a set of rules called the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. 
The relevant rules applicable here are under DISP 2.8.2. These state that this service cannot 
consider a complaint if the complainant referred it to us more than six years after the event 
complained of or, if later, three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint. For the 
reasons outlined by our investigator, Im satisfied that, in respect of Albert Goodmans advice 
to switch investment manager in 2009 and again 2013, Mr M ought reasonably to have been 
aware he had cause for complaint more than three years before he made this complaint. I 
havent seen any evidence that exceptional circumstances prevented Mr M from complaining 
sooner. Therefore, under this final decision, I wont be considering the suitability of Albert 
Goodmans advice to Mr M in 2009 and 2013.
Albert Goodmans CIPI can see that Mr M describes himself as having an aggressive risk profile and his 
overarching objective has always been to draw annuity income while maintaining his 
investment portfolio at around £250,000, in line with his initial investment of £249,250 in 
2003. It seems that this objective had largely been met by the time Mr M complained in 
2020.
Despite this, Mr M said that Albert Goodman shouldve advised him to switch the 
management of his investment portfolio from Brooks MacDonald to its CIP to reduce costs. 
Albert Goodman developed its CIP in 2015. It offers a range of diversified model investment 
portfolios aligned to different client risk profiles. Since the underlying investments in the CIP 
arent actively managed, costs are lower when compared to actively managed options, such 
as Brooks Macdonalds DFM service.
In my view, lower costs available through an alternative option doesnt automatically 
transform an existing suitable arrangement into an unsuitable one. If higher costs are 
incurred but with good reason  such as providing genuine potential for higher investment 
returns  then it could, in some circumstances, be deemed suitable. This means that I wont 
automatically uphold a complaint simply because an alternative course of action entailed 
lower costs. Theres a broad spectrum of suitable investment options, all with different costs 
and features. Considering Mr Ms income needs and investment objective, I havent seen 
any evidence that persuades me it was unsuitable for his investment portfolio to continue to 
be managed by Brooks MacDonald rather than switching to Albert Goodmans CIP. So I 
dont intend to uphold this element of his complaint.
In any event, I note that in response to Mr Ms concerns about costs, Albert Goodman 
presented alternative options to him including its CIP. But he declined the options presented 
and was, at that time, despite the costs involved, content to continue with Brooks 
MacDonalds DFM service, seemingly because of the investment returns it had achieved.
Returning excess cash to Brooks MacDonald for reinvestment
Like our investigator, I think Albert Goodman couldve responded sooner to Mr Ms email of                  
10 February 2019 in which he instructed it to arrange for excess cash held by the annuity 
provider to be reinvested by Brooks MacDonald. Reinvestment occurred on                          
14 March 2019. Like our investigator, I think its fair to say that reinvestment couldve 
occurred on 20 February 2019 had Albert Goodman acted in good time. So I think its fair 
and reasonable to uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint and direct Albert Goodman to carry 
out a loss assessment and pay any redress due to Mr M as a result of the delay in 
reinvesting his money.
Putting things right
What Ive set out below is in line with what our investigator previously recommended in his 
assessment. 
Albert Goodman must pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused 
by the level of service he received. In addition, Albert Goodman must carry out a loss 
assessment to determine if the undue delay in reinvesting the excess cash led to Mr M 
suffering a financial loss. My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr M into the 
position he wouldve been in had the undue delay not occurred. 
Albert Goodman must carry out a loss assessment on the following basis:
Compare the actual value of Mr Ms investment portfolio with the notional value had 
the cash returned to Brooks MacDonald been reinvested on 20 February 2019 and not 14 March 2019. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, theres 
a loss and compensation is payable;
The actual and notional values should be obtained as at the date of this final 
decision;
Interest at 8% simple per year from the date of this final decision to settlement should 
be added to the compensation figure if it isnt settled within 28 days of Albert 
Goodman receiving Mr Ms acceptance of this final decision;
If theres a loss, this should be paid to Mr M's current investment portfolio to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid to the portfolio if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance;
If compensation cannot be paid to Mr M's portfolio, it should be paid direct to him. But 
had it been possible to pay it into the portfolio, it wouldve ultimately provided a 
taxable annuity income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid on that income. This is 
an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation 
is paid;
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of income tax. Ive decided its reasonable to assume that hes likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer, so the reduction would equal 20%. Since the money would 
provide taxable annuity income only, there arent any tax-free lump sum issues to 
consider; and
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Albert Goodman considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell         
Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect 
of interest if he asks for one so that he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
I note that Albert Goodman no longer has servicing rights on Mr Ms investment portfolio. 
Therefore, its likely hell need to sign a letter of authority giving his permission for Albert 
Goodman to obtain the information it requires from other businesses to enable it to carry out 
the loss assessment calculation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Albert Goodman Financial Planning Limited must redress              
Mr M as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman