DRN-2390162
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) unfairly turned down parts of 
their claim for medical expenses incurred abroad. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R and their children (Miss R and Mr R) hold a travel insurance policy with URV. 
They travelled abroad and Mrs R suffered an accident while skiing, injuring her knee.
Mrs R visited a local clinic and was diagnosed with a tear in her knee cartilage. The clinic 
drew blood from the knee, strapped it up and discharged Mrs R with some anti-inflammatory 
medication. 
Mr and Mrs R contacted URV to let it know what had happened, and URV asked for a 
medical report. They later contacted URV again as Mrs R was still in pain, and said they 
thought an MRI scan was needed to confirm exactly what was wrong. 
URV reviewed the medical report, and although it recommended an MRI scan, it didnt say 
this was medically necessary. So URV thought this could wait until Mrs R returned to the UK. 
Mrs R had said she was worried about her condition and thought the person shed seen 
previously wasnt properly trained. URV advised Mrs R to visit one of the local private clinics 
and to ask for confirmation she was fit to fly and whether she would need DVT injections. 
Mr and Mrs R contacted URV again later the same evening. They said they went to the clinic 
to ask about DVT injections, but the clinic had done scans and identified a fracture, so Mrs 
Rs knee had been put in plaster, and an operation was planned for later that evening. 
URV reviewed the new medical report and advised Mrs R should be transferred to a public 
hospital to have the operation. And it told Mr and Mrs R that private medical costs were not 
covered under the policy.  
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with this  they said they were concerned about how long Mrs 
R might have to wait if she moved to a public hospital. And ultimately, they decided to go 
ahead with the operation at the private facility. 
After they returned to the UK, Mr and Mrs R submitted a claim for their expenses including 
the medical bills and additional seats on their return flight, so that Mrs R could extend her 
leg. 
URV agreed to pay the claim for the additional seats, the first private clinic visit, and 
medication only. It said it was unable to cover the costs of the further private medical 
treatment. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to URV. They said Mrs Rs operation was necessary, and itd not 
been confirmed that suitable public facilities were available. URV said itd advised Mr and 
Mrs R that private treatment would not be covered, before they chose to go ahead with the 
surgery. And it thought its decision on the claim had been correct. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said she didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She said the medical evidence hadnt shown that surgery had to be 
carried out immediately in the private facility. She thought URV had been clear from the 
outset in advising Mr and Mrs R that private treatment wouldnt be covered, and had 
encouraged a transfer to a public hospital. 
URV said it agreed with the investigators view. Mr and Mrs R disagreed and in summary 
they raised the following points: 
the medical evidence showed the treatment was necessary;
URV took too long to make a decision when Mrs R was scheduled for surgery, and 
this left them with no choice but to go ahead;
URV should have known the clinic would want to carry out its own assessments 
before providing any DVT injections;
URV advised Mrs R to attend a private clinic for DVT injections, because it didnt 
want to pay the taxi costs to get to a public facility. And had it agreed to pay the taxi 
costs to the public facility, Mrs R would likely have had the scans and her knee 
plastered there; and
URV should at least cover the costs of diagnosis and plastering Mrs Rs knee, as this 
was required whether she had surgery or not.
The investigator said these points hadnt changed her mind. She still didnt think the medical 
evidence showed Mrs R couldnt have been transferred to a public facility. And she said 
shed listened to the calls with URV, and didnt find it had said Mrs R should attend the local 
facility (for confirmation she was fit to fly), because of the costs of a taxi to the public 
hospital.  And she didnt think thered been any unnecessary delay in URV responding to Mr 
and Mrs R on the evening of the surgery. She said it wouldnt be fair to ask URV to cover the 
costs of some of the treatment Mrs R had at the private clinic, as it had been made clear that 
private treatment wasnt covered. 
Mr and Mrs R still disagreed, and they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So the 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Rs travel insurance policy state the following, in several places, in 
relation to private medical treatment. 
This is a travel insurance policy and not private medical insurance. This means there is no 
cover for any medical expenses incurred in private facilities if we have confirmed that 
medically capable public facilities are available.
And the policy gives the below definition of emergency and necessary medical treatment. 
any ill-health or injury which occurs during your trip and requires immediate treatment either 
before you return home or to enable you to return home.Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say URV has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. And having 
done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld for the following reasons. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Rs travel insurance policy clearly states that private 
medical treatment is not covered when public facilities are available. And I note that 
when URV asked Mrs R to transfer to a public hospital, it had identified two public 
facilities. Mr and Mrs R have said itd not been confirmed to them that these facilities 
were medically capable or that they had availability. However, I dont think this 
means suitable public facilities were unavailable. The evidence Ive seen shows that 
URV was looking into options for Mrs R to transfer to a public hospital and discussed 
this with Mr and Mrs R, but they declined this and made a decision to remain at a 
private facility for surgery. 
Ive found the medical reports provided by the hospital abroad to be the most 
persuasive medical evidence, as these were written by medical professionals who 
assessed Mrs R at the time. And based on these reports, whilst I accept surgery was 
recommended after the fracture was identified following the CT scan, conservative 
treatment was also stated as an option. So Im not satisfied that Mrs R met the policy 
definition of emergency and necessary treatment. And because of this, I dont think 
it was necessary for her surgery to go ahead as soon as it did, or that she couldnt 
have been transferred to a public hospital for treatment. 
Ive also considered the timeline of the calls and events in the hours before Mrs R 
underwent surgery. URV requested a medical report, and reviewed this, providing a 
response to Mr and Mrs R in around an hour. So I dont agree that URV caused any 
unnecessary delays, leaving Mr and Mrs R with no choice but to go ahead with the 
surgery. The calls evidence that URV had detailed conversations with Mr and Mrs R 
about their cover and explained if they went ahead and paid for the surgery, URV 
may not reimburse them. It also spoke with one of the doctors who confirmed Mrs R 
could choose to move to a public facility if she wished. And URV said it would 
contact one of the public hospitals to find out if they could assist. However Mr and 
Mrs R declined and said they wanted to stay at the private facility for the surgery.
Mr and Mrs R have said they think URV should at least cover the costs of the scans 
and plastering of the knee carried out prior to Mrs Rs surgery at the private facility. 
URV agreed for Mrs R to visit a local private facility for confirmation of whether she 
was fit to fly, and to have DVT injections, if needed. I didnt find any evidence within 
the calls that URV had refused to cover taxi costs to and from a public facility further 
away. So Im not persuaded that it agreed for Mrs R to visit a private clinic because it 
didnt want to pay for taxis. 
I note from earlier calls that Mr R had been concerned that the original clinic that 
assessed Mrs R had been unable to perform an MRI scan. URV had said, based on 
the medical report, it didnt think a scan was needed until Mrs R returned to the UK. 
So I think it was made clear to Mr R that URV had not authorised the costs of any 
scans at the private clinic, and had only advised Mrs R to go there for confirmation 
she was fit to fly, and a DVT injection if needed. 
Mr and Mrs R have said they think it should have been obvious that the clinic would 
have wanted to carry out an assessment before providing DVT injections. However, 
based on the advice URV had already given about cover for private treatment and 
the opinion it had given on the medical necessity of the scans (based on the medical 
report it had seen up until that point), I dont think its unreasonable to expect that Mr 
and Mrs R would check with URV again before receiving further private treatment. So it follows that I dont think its unreasonable that URV refused to pay those costs.
The taxi costs Mr and Mrs R claimed for were not met by URV, although they were 
told they could submit receipts as part of their claim. Having reviewed the policy, it 
specifies the travel costs which are covered in the event of emergency and 
necessary medical treatment. But as Ive explained above, I dont think the medical 
evidence showed Mrs Rs surgery met this policy definition. So it follows that I dont 
think URV was required to reimburse Mr and Mrs R for any taxi costs. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, Ive not 
found that URV has acted unfairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against Union Reiseversicherung AG. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, Miss R, Mr 
R and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman