DRN-2225745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them 
endowment policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were sold endowment policies in 1993 and 1994. The former had a target of 
£6,000 over a 16-year term with monthly premiums of £21.33. And the latter had a target of 
£12,000 over a 14-year term with monthly premiums of £48.94. 
Mr and Mrs R said they surrendered the policies in 2005 when they werent performing as 
expected. 
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy as theyve said they were told the policies would pay off their 
mortgage and leave a lump sum. Theyve said their attitude to risk wasnt assessed, and that 
they werent prepared to take any risk with paying for their home. Theyve said that no other 
options were discussed and that they wouldve chosen to take out a repayment mortgage 
had they been made aware of the associated risks, and the alternative options available. 
While some information about the policies was available, neither party was able to provide 
any documentation from around the time of the sales. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. In the absence of point of sale documentation, 
she couldnt safely say what had happened. But, having thought about Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time, she didnt think there was anything to indicate that the policies 
were unsuitable. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They said they were very cautious in their attitude to risk, 
particularly due to their occupations, so a unit-linked policy was unsuitable. Theyve said that 
the end date of the policies wouldnt have allowed them enough time to make up the shortfall 
before their intended retirement age. And theyve said that NatWest cant prove the advice 
given was suitable.
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, I dont uphold their 
complaint  Ill explain why. 
Ive been given some information about the policy; the start date, the maturity date, the sum 
assured, the monthly premiums and the surrender value. But all this confirms to us is that 
there were policies  and thats not in dispute here. The complaint thats been brought to us, 
however, is about the advice that was given at the time of the sales.
But, because of the amount of time thats passed since the policies were sold, and 
surrendered, neither party has any written evidence from the time of the sales. This is 
understandable  I cant reasonably expect either party to have information about sales that 
happened around 25 years ago. But this, alongside quite limited testimony from Mr and 
Mrs R, means there isnt persuasive evidence of what happened during the sales. 
Given that the policies didnt perform as hoped, its understandable that Mr and Mrs R feel 
that they were sold policies were too high a risk. But Id need to consider what was known at 
the time, not what we now know in hindsight. And, as Ive said, theres very limited 
information available.
I note that Mr and Mrs R had been sold endowment policies by other providers around 10 
years prior, so its possible that they had some existing knowledge of them. And its likely 
they wouldve had an opportunity to see how those policies had performed prior to being 
sold these. But this is just something Ive noted, rather than it greatly impacting my decision.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Rs point that they had a cautious approach to risk due to 
their occupations. I note that both Mr and Mrs R were employed. They havent provided me 
with information about their salaries at the time, nor have I seen what their income and 
expenditure was. So theres nothing that leads me to think theyd have had a particularly 
cautious approach to risk as a result of their occupations. In addition, I dont know whether 
they were asked about their attitude to risk or, if so, what they answered. So I cant say that 
unit-linked policies were inappropriate for their attitude to risk.
Looking at the available evidence  which is minimal - Im not persuaded that I have enough 
to conclude that NatWest did something wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman