DRN-3171301
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) are using 
text short codes when this type of message is classed as a premium rate with his mobile 
network provider. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Im only going to include a 
brief summary here. Mr G has a Barclaycard credit card. Barclaycard sent Mr G a short 
code text message to alert him to a potential fraud purchase. But Mr Gs network provider 
doesnt allow him to reply to these type of text messages, so he had to get in touch with 
Barclaycard in a different way. 
Mr G complained to Barclaycard, and to us, about their use of short code texts. Our 
investigator didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly. Mr G has asked for a final decision, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclaycard have a responsibility to protect customers against fraud. From what Mr 
G says the online purchase he was making was unusual, so Barclaycard contacted 
Mr G to make sure this was a legitimate transaction.
I appreciate Mr Gs frustration that he was sent a text from Barclaycard using a short 
code to gain authorisation, which he wasnt able to reply to, this was due to his 
mobile phone provider. He was given an alternative way to contact Barclaycard by 
calling telephone banking and completing security, which he did to get the 
transaction approved. Barclaycard dont solely rely on text messaging to approve 
transactions  but its the preferred method.
The problem Mr G had with replying to the text was that his mobile network provider 
doesnt currently support messaging short codes and categorises them as a 
premium rate number. Barclaycard say texts are free to reply to in the UK, and they 
are, as long as the network provider supports this and/or the customer has selected a 
plan where short codes are categorised the same as a text message. 
Barclaycard are free to decide what systems they put in place to communicate with 
their customers, as long as there are alternatives provided, when the preferred 
method may not be accessible. Its Mr Gs network provider that are choosing not to 
offer this service to their customers. Barclaycard are free to decide what systems 
they put in place to communicate with their customers. Barclaycard have decided to 
communicate using short codes and I dont think theyve done anything wrong by 
using them. Especially given the fact there is an alternative available for Mr G.
So, Im not going to tell Barclaycard to change this. I appreciate Mr G may not find 
this convenient, but I dont think Barclaycard are treating him unfairly by 
communicating in this way. There are alternatives methods Barclaycard use to check 
the validity of certain transactions, but I recognise it may not be as quick or 
convenient and reply to a text.
I acknowledge what Mr G says  that there are customers that cant afford higher 
priced network plans that cover short codes as standard. But as our investigator 
explained, Im only able to comment on what happened in Mr Gs case.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Gs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman