DRN-3631502
The complaint
Mr F complains that CB Payments Ltd (Coinbase) blocked his account without reason or 
notice. Mr F wants compensation for the inconvenience and poor customer service.
What happened
Mr F had an account with Coinbase. On 3 January 2021 the account was restricted. The 
restriction was removed on 22 January 2021 and reapplied again on the same day. The 
restriction was finally removed on 3 February 2021.
Mr F has said the restrictions on the account meant he wasnt able to trade at a time of high 
volatility. He also contacted Coinbase numerous times and they werent able to give him a 
satisfactory answer.
Mr F said he engaged the services of a solicitor to get advice on how to make Coinbase 
allow him access to his account. He is out of pocket and wants Coinbase to cover these 
expenses.
Coinbase said they were entitled to restrict the account under the user agreement. They 
agreed they hadnt provided Mr F with good customer service and credited his account with 
£50.
Mr F was unhappy and complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said Coinbase had restricted Mr Fs 
account to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. It didnt need to give Mr F a 
reason or notice. She was satisfied Coinbase hadnt caused any delays. She thought £50 for 
the failures in customer service was reasonable.
Mr F disagreed with the view. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review of the account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Fs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Coinbase were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Fs account. 
Financial businesses, like Coinbase, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments. This is reflected in Coinbases terms and conditions. These say Coinbase 
can block an account to meet its legal obligations. 
Because Coinbase has procedures it must follow to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations I dont think its done anything wrong when it blocked Mr Fs account.
Mr F has said he wanted to know the reason for the block and he also wanted to be given 
notice that Coinbase were thinking of blocking his account. Whilst Mr F may have expected 
to be given the reasons for the block, Coinbase isnt required to give him a specific reason 
for blocking the account. So, I cant say Coinbase has done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr F this information  as much as hed like to know.
I know Mr F has said he wouldve liked Coinbase to give him notice of their intention to block 
his account. I appreciate this wouldve been convenient for Mr F but Coinbase arent obliged 
to do so and I wouldnt have expected them to  so I cant say theyve been unreasonable.
Potential losses
Mr F said the block on the account came at a very bad time because the market was volatile, 
and he wasnt able to trade. Mr F has said the value of his account varied by up to 100,000 
US dollars and he was prevented from realising those gains.
I appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr F. I have already said I dont think 
Coinbase did anything wrong when it restricted Mr Fs account so it follows I dont think they 
can be held liable for the potential gains Mr F didnt realise during this period.
Solicitors fees 
Mr F said he consulted solicitors in order to seek advice on how to get Coinbase to allow him 
access to his account. Mr F said he incurred costs as a result of the block on his account. 
Mr F's raised that he'd like his legal fees repaid. I've considered this, I appreciate this was a 
frustrating time for Mr F and I understand why he decided to seek legal advice. But I've not 
seen any evidence that Coinbase directed Mr F to do so, or it was something he needed to 
do in the circumstances. Mr F had other options available to him including complaining 
directly to Coinbase and bringing his complaint to our service. It follows it wouldn't be fair for 
me to ask Coinbase to repay his legal costs. 
Service issues 
Mr F said he had received bad customer service. Coinbase acknowledged this and have 
credited Mr Fs account with £50. I can see from the file that Mr F contacted Coinbase 
repeatedly to seek updates about his account. I can imagine it was frustrating to him not to 
be given the updates he wanted. As Ive said Coinbase were entitled to review the account, 
so I think the offer of £50 is reasonable in the circumstances and I wont be asking Coinbase 
to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont require CB Payments Ltd trading as Coinbase to do 
anything else.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman