DRN-4070068
The complaint
Mr B complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Jacamo (J D Williams) 
irresponsibly gave him a running account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 12 January 2018, Mr B applied for a credit account with J D Williams. He was given 
an initial credit limit of £100. The credit limit was increased eight times by 26 February 
2019 to £1,750. Later, after the last credit limit increase, the account had arrears and was 
sold eventually to a third-party debt agency. 
In 2022, Mr B complained to J D Williams to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Bs complaint is that J D Williams made credit available that was unaffordable. J D 
Williams has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine 
the amount of credit it was able to offer. With that information and using their own scoring 
metric, J D Williams offered Mr B the modest credit limit of £100. And for the later credit 
increases J D Williams also had the knowledge of how Mr B was managing his account with 
them. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the sale.
The J D Williams checks showed that Mr Bs credit file was very clean at the time of the 
credit application. This is confirmed in the copy of Mr Bs credit report that he provided us. 
At the time of the application there were no defaults or any adverse credit history in the 12 
months prior to the application. Mr Bs management of his existing credit showed no recent 
history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, it would have seemed to J D Williams 
from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made that Mr B was 
affording his existing credit. There was one default over a year before the lending and that 
was for a very modest amount. So, I dont think that was sufficient to have put J D Williams 
off the very modest amount of lending they initially provided. 
And so, I dont think that the information that J D Williams had at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr 
Bs finances. 
For the subsequent increases to the credit limit, J D Williams could look at how Mr B was 
managing his account with them. I have seen no evidence of missed or late payments and 
no evidence that Mr B was utilising the full credit limit throughout that time. 
Mr B thinks that his complaint should be upheld because he was not in paid employment. 
But Mr B has told us he was in receipt of income in his role as a carer. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability and in this case Mr B has not wanted to 
provide his bank statements from the time. But even had he provided his bank statements, it 
is not the case that they would have been required to be seen by J D Williams as part of 
proportionate checks at the time of the lending. 
From all the information that J D Williams had or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decisions, Im not persuaded that J D Williams would have been put on notice to 
make more searching enquiries into Mr Bs finances at those times. But even had they done 
so, its not certain that they would have found anything that would have led them to think 
their lending was unreasonable. 
It does seem to be the case that Mr B did start to exhibit financial difficulty from his credit 
report shortly after the last increase to the credit limit was provided. But, I have to look at the 
information that was available to J D Williams at the time it made its lending decisions and 
not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that J 
D Williams acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have 
led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Bs financial position more 
closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit J D Williams provided to Mr B was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman