DRN-3143727
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refused his credit card account application.
What happened
Mr P says he applied for a Lloyds credit card account online that was unfairly refused. He 
says he made a second application that was also refused on the basis that he had exceeded 
the number of permitted applications. Mr P says there was not a genuine justification for the 
refusals, and he would like compensation for what took place. He says there will be an 
impact on his credit worthiness, as he may be asked in future credit applications, if in the 
past, he has had similar applications refused. Mr P says he was given one reason by Lloyds 
for the rejection which was due to him declaring he had a mortgage but didnt make a 
monthly repayment. He says his mortgage was largely paid off in 2000 but there remains a 
notional amount to allow his deeds to be safely retained.
Lloyds says its policy is that a second application for a credit card account needs to be made 
a month after the first and so didnt make a mistake by rejecting the second application. It 
accepts poor service for part of the complaint and has offered £50 compensation for that. 
Lloyds has provided us with a copy of the application form and says Mr P declared his 
income at zero and other income as £4,100. It says he stated zero in answer to the question 
how long he had been with Lloyds. 
Mr P had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there were answers in the application such as the mortgage payment and the 
income which meant Lloyds was entitled to refuse the application. The investigator didnt 
think Lloyds made a mistake in the circumstances.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and in summary says Lloyds has provided directly 
contradictory information to us that it provided to him about the rejection reasons. He 
disputes telling Lloyds his income was zero or £4,100 and says if he had entered his income 
then it would have been £41,000. Mr P questions how he could have zero income but 
accepts he may have left the income question blank. He says Lloyds has withheld this 
information from him and that justifies compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels 
about this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr P applied for the credit card account himself online and that he was 
responsible for the insertion of accurate information. I appreciate Mr Ps point about the 
mortgage and that his repayments were nil. But having looked at Lloyds records Im satisfied 
that Mr Ps monthly income was recorded as zero and his annual income recorded as 
£4,100. I think on balance that it likely that Mr P was responsible for that information and can 
see that he has told us that he may have left the monthly income question blank. I can also 
see that Mr P has told us his annual income was closer to £41,000 rather than £4,100. So, I 
think it likely on balance that Mr P made a mistake in the online application and recorded his 
monthly income as zero and his annual income as £4,100.
I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for that information as this was Mr Ps online application 
and it was his responsibility to ensure the correct fields were completed and completed 
accurately. I can also see that Mr P was asked how long he had banked with Lloyds and 
again the answer was recorded as zero. I think it unlikely Lloyds systems were at fault as I 
can see that Mr P did provided required information on a number of other questions.
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds was reasonably entitled to reject Mr Ps credit card account 
application. I also think its up to Lloyds to decide with whom it enters into a credit agreement 
and that it was reasonably entitled to assume the information Mr P provided was accurate. I 
also think its up to Lloyds to decide when exercising its commercial judgement what its rules 
are for the time period between an initial application and a second application. It follows that 
I dont think Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing to consider Mr Ps second 
application and telling him he needed to wait before such an application could be made.
I appreciate Lloyds didnt provide Mr P with the exact reasons why it rejected the application. 
I agree it would have been helpful for Mr P to have known that. But I also think its up to a 
business to decide, again when exercising its commercial judgement, how much information 
it provides about such matters. And I have made clear that I think there were mistakes and 
omissions in the application which on balance were made by Mr P. I dont think a failure to 
provide all of the reasons justifies compensation in these circumstances. And I dont think 
the reasons Lloyds has now provided contradicts the earlier information Mr P was given but 
rather adds to them.
Overall, I find Mr P made the online application and that it was his responsibility to ensure 
the correct details were provided I think that if Mr P had any questions about the application 
form such as the issue about the mortgage then he ought to have spoken to Lloyds about 
that. I dont intend to say anything in detail about the compensation paid by Lloyds as that 
related to other matters and were not the subject of this main complaint. But make clear that 
I think the compensation award fair and reasonable for that aspect about how Lloyds dealt 
with what I think were service issues.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman