DRN-2093554
The complaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
Mr B had agreed to pay his motor insurance premiums by direct debit on the 8th of 
each month.  However, in February Direct Line attempted to take the payment, but 
Mr Bs bank rejected the request. So Direct line requested the payment again, but it 
was rejected. Mr Bs payment for March was also requested and rejected. This 
therefore resulted in missed payments.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy which states:
11. If you miss a payment
If we have been unable to collect the instalment payment(s) due under your credit 
agreement on the date(s) due, we will write to you in order to give you the opportunity to 
make the payment(s).
If any instalment amount remain(s) unpaid by the date we set out in our letter, we will give 
you 14 days' notice that we will cancel your policy, and inform you in writing when this 
cancellation has taken place.
I have seen evidence to show that letters were sent to Mr B on 13 February 2020 and          
3 March 2020 explaining that he had missed payments and if a third payment was 
missed it could result in Mr Bs policy being cancelled. First Direct have also provided 
system notes demonstrating that these letters were issued.
So, while I appreciate that Mr B has said he didnt receive these letters (as he has 
explained he has had issues with receiving post), I cant hold direct line responsible 
for issues relating to the postal service. I say this because I can see that the letters 
were issued from Direct line to the address it held for Mr B on file, which correlates 
with the address Mr B provided this service with.
After the third missed payment Direct line issued a letter dated 13 March 2020. This 
letter explained that Mr B was in breach of the terms and so the policy would be 
cancelled on 27 March 2020. Again, Direct line have provided evidence to show the 
cancellation notice was sent to Mr B.
Mr B has said he didnt receive any of the letters from Direct line and wasnt aware 
his policy had been cancelled. But in his complaint form he submitted to our service, 
Mr B said:
I have contacted the insurance after receiving a letter informing me my insurance had 
been cancelled.
So, on balance I think it is likely Mr B did receive the cancelation notice as he 
indicated he did on his complaint form to our service. 
I have also gone on to consider how Mr B asked direct line to correspond with him. In 
the terms and conditions of the account it says Direct Line will write to Mr B if there 
are issues with his payments. And having reviewed its system notes, I cant see that 
Mr B specified a preferred method of contact. So overall, I dont think it was wrong of 
Direct Line to correspond by post. If Mr B was aware he was having issues with his 
post, he could have contacted Direct line to make it aware and requested all 
correspondence via email. 
Mr B has also said at the time he was in financial difficulty and had issues with his 
bank. I am sorry to hear that Mr B was experiencing financial hardship at the time. 
But I cant see that he made Direct Line aware of this. If he had, I would have 
expected it to act positively and sympathetically towards Mr Bs circumstances.
However, in line with the terms and conditions of the account, it is Mr Bs 
responsibility to ensure there are enough funds in his account for the direct debit to 
be taken. And as Mr B has pointed out, he was aware he was experiencing financial 
hardship and he was experiencing issue with his bank. So, I think it is fair to suggest 
that Mr B was aware there could be issues with his direct debits being successful. 
With that in mind I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that Mr B ought to have 
bene checking his online bank statements to ensure his insurance premium had 
been successful, as after all, this is his responsibility. Especially as he stated in his 
complaint form that he relies heavily on his vehicle for work. 
Overall, I am satisfied Direct Line have acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when cancelling Mr Bs motor insurance policy. It issued 
several letters, attempted to take payments on more than one occasion, made Mr B 
aware of how it would correspond with him and made him aware it was his 
responsibility to ensure his premiums were paid. And I think Mr B had enough 
information available to him in regard to his own circumstances to be concerned his 
payments may not have been taken and therefore he may be breaching the terms of 
his policy. 
As Mr Bs policy was cancelled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
Direct Line (as a responsible insurer) has a duty to report that Mr Bs policy was 
cancelled by the insurer. And so, it would be unfair for me to ask it to remove it.
My final decision
My Final Decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman