DRN-3137005
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (hereafter AXA) declined her private 
medical insurance claim. 
What happened
Briefly, Mrs C had access to a private medical insurance policy through her employer. Her 
dependant (who Ill call L) was also covered under the same policy, and in 2020 Mrs C 
submitted a claim following an open GP referral for L. 
At the time, Mrs C told AXA that she wanted L to undergo diagnostics with a specialist 
because L had been showing signs of Auditory Processing Disorder (APD). But AXA 
explained the claim wouldnt be covered due to a policy exclusion relating to learning and 
developmental disorders. 
Mrs C complained about that decision, and when AXA maintained its position she 
approached this service. To put things right Mrs C told us she wanted AXA to accept the 
claim and reimburse her for the consultation and diagnostics shed since paid for. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. They didnt think AXA had declined 
the claim unreasonably and so did not recommend Mrs Cs complaint be upheld. 
When explaining their opinion our investigator agreed there wasnt sufficient evidence to 
suggest APD was a learning disorder. But they didnt think it was unreasonable of AXA to 
decline the claim based on the same policy exclusion not covering educational or speech 
and language problems either. 
Mrs C disagreed and provided additional information which didnt change our investigators 
opinion. So, as no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA will be aware that it has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and 
not reject them unreasonably. 
As I think has been rightly explained, Ls APD would likely constitute a chronic condition in 
line with the policy terms. The policy does provide some limited provision for chronic 
conditions, namely cover for initial investigations to diagnose and treatment for a few 
months, but AXA has declined any coverage for this condition on the grounds that it comes 
within the following exclusion:
4.17 >Learning and developmental disorders
Applies to: Treatment, Out-patient, Diagnostics, Therapies and Mental Health options
We do not cover any treatment, investigations, assessment or grading to do with:
learning disorders
speech delay
educational problems 
behavioural problems 
physical development
psychological development
Some examples of the conditions we do not cover are the following (please call if you would 
like to know if a condition is covered):
dyslexia
dyspraxia
autistic spectrum disorder
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
speech and language problems, including speech therapy needed because of 
another medical condition.
Mrs C has set out her thoughts on AXAs position at length. She has provided much 
evidence to support her own position too, and I thank her for taking the time to do so. While I 
might not comment on every argument or piece of evidence either side has put forward, I 
have considered everything that has been made available. 
Mrs C says APD is not a learning disorder. She says there is much evidence to substantiate 
it being a hearing disorder: such as the World Health Organisation who wrote about APD in 
its World Report on Hearing in 2021, and an APC specific charity that commented on APD 
as a medical (neurological) condition. She says once the above is accepted the other parts 
of the exclusion relied on become invalid. 
I acknowledge the evidence Mrs C has presented but Im not persuaded that collectively the 
evidence in this complaint substantiates APD as a hearing disorder. 
As I think our investigator was right to explain, the NHS sets out that APD is not a hearing 
disorder and Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children (one of the facilities that can 
diagnose APD) also says that APD, affects how the brain interprets sound rather than how 
sound is carried through the ear to the brain.
I note Mrs C says theres limited knowledge of APD and I empathise with the difficulties she 
says this can cause. Despite the evidence Mrs C has provided in support of her position, 
neither the NHS nor GOSH, both of which I consider to be reliable sources of information 
with regard to APD, set out what particular category of disorder it would come under. And so 
Im not persuaded that the collective evidence in this complaint does demonstrate that APD 
is considered to be a hearing disorder.
That being said, Im not persuaded that the collective evidence demonstrates that APD is a 
learning disorder either. And I know that both sides are aware of there being some published 
controversy surrounding APD being categorised as a learning disorder in its own right. 
Notwithstanding the above, AXA says that treatment, assessments and investigations associated with learning difficulties, educational, behavioural, and speech problems for 
example arent covered under the exclusion. And, that irrespective of APD being a learning 
disorder in its own right or not, there is evidence of Ls APD causing such problems. So Ive 
thought about whether it was reasonable of AXA to decline the claim on this basis. 
Referring back to some of the available evidence I note a Speech and Language Therapy 
Report based on an assessment of L on both 12 and 29 February 2020. The background to 
this report explains L was referred for an assessment because teaching staff at Ls school 
had become aware that L did not always hear instructions clearly, and because Mrs C was 
concerned about Ls ability to spell and the mixing up of speech sounds. 
The body of Speech and Language Therapy Report details the tests and observations that 
took place  these were in relation to Ls attention and listening skills, her understanding, 
and her speech. 
Within its summary the report concludes L was, experiencing some lexical confusion with 
words containing th and this is causing (Ls) spelling of them to be inaccurate. And it 
further concluded that L had, difficulty assimilating complex auditory information, specifically 
when it is spoken and accompanied by a background noise and/or more dialogue. 
Looking at the open referral from Ls GP which is dated 10 September 2020, I can see it 
reiterates the above. It explains that L was experiencing quite a bit of lexical confusion, 
specifically that L was confusing the sound of th and f. It says L was confusing some 
more obscure sounds too, and it explains the way in which L was being affected had 
become more apparent when L was at school. 
Mrs C has concerns about the Speech and Language Therapy Report being relied on. She 
says it was just background to the run up of Ls diagnosis and she hadnt found it particularly 
useful. While I appreciate that, I dont think it was unreasonable of AXA to conclude that the 
available evidence demonstrated the presence of speech and language problems for L. And 
so it therefore follows that I dont think it was unreasonable of AXA to rely on the exclusion it 
did here.  
I also dont think it was unreasonable of AXA to conclude that the available evidence 
demonstrated the presence of educational problems either. I say this because as I noted 
above, the Speech and Language Therapy Report advised that one of that reasons L had 
been referred was because teaching staff had become aware that L did not always hear 
instructions clearly. It set out that L had problems with her spelling too, and a later report 
from the London Hearing & Balance Centre dated 5 November 2020 also set out that L had 
problems with spelling.   
Mrs C says a number of other conditions could result in educational problems and thus be 
excluded from cover, but the complaint being decided is in relation to APD. The other 
conditions Mrs C has referred to fall into their own respective categories, and unfortunately 
this isnt something which appears to have been collectively agreed on yet with APD. 
I realise Mrs C will likely be further disappointed by my findings. I empathise with the wider 
frustrations she has about the general lack of knowledge and understanding of APD, and I 
hope that L continues to get the support needed to assist her. This complaint was finely 
balanced, but for the reasons given above Im not persuaded I can fairly conclude it was 
unreasonable of AXA to decline this claim. So, I will not be interfering with its position. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman