DRN-4268831
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC merged her personal account details with 
business account details when she was added as an authorised signatory on a business 
account. She wants her personal and business accounts to be kept separate.
What happened
Mrs M says that in October 2022, she was asked by her employer to become an additional 
signatory. A mandate form was completed and as part of this she confirmed she was an 
existing Barclays customer. On 21 November Mrs M received a text thanking her for 
changing her phone number. As she hadnt done this, she contacted Barclays. She then 
logged on to her online account and found that this now included business alongside her 
personal account details.
Mrs M contacted Barclays as she wanted her personal and business account details to be 
on separate profiles. She was worried that she could be exposed to any liabilities of the 
business. Barclays confirmed that Mrs M wouldnt be liable for the business accounts 
(unless she had separate agreement to that effect). Mrs M accepted this but then received a 
letter which was addressed to her as a director which raised her concerns about potential 
liability for the business again. She says she was then provided with a new membership 
number. 
Mrs M says she has spent hours trying to resolve this issue, including visiting a branch, but 
she hasnt been given a satisfactory resolution.
Barclays confirmed that Mrs M was a signatory for the business and was not recorded as a 
director. It said that when the business mandate was set up the business was added to 
Mrs Ms online banking and mobile banking app. It said this is usual bank practice and is 
intended to make things easier for the customer. It accepted that a mistake had been made 
by adding Mrs Ms business phone number to her personal record when the mandate was 
set up. It apologised for this, corrected the phone number, and paid Mrs M £25.  
As Mrs M wasnt happy that she could see the business accounts on her online banking and 
mobile banking apps, Barclays separated the business and personal accounts on Mrs Ms 
online banking and told her this would result in two separate membership numbers. It 
explained it was unable to separate Mrs Ms credit card for the business from her personal 
mobile banking app. It said that if Mrs M didnt want to see this on her mobile banking app 
she could remove it from her list of accounts.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They noted the mistake made by adding 
Mrs Ms business phone number to her personal profile and thought the action taken, 
including paying £25 compensation was reasonable. They didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong by adding the business to Mrs Ms online banking and mobile banking 
apps and noted that since she raised her concerns it had taken action, where possible, to 
separate these. They acknowledged Mrs Ms concerns about potential liability for the 
business accounts but said that Barclays hadnt done anything to suggest Mrs M would be 
liable and had explained the letter sent with the new debit card was addressed to Mrs M and 
the director.
Mrs M requested her complaint be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. She said she 
really wanted a separate profile for her personal account and for the business account she is 
a signatory for.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how upsetting this experience has been for Mrs M as she wasnt expecting the 
business to be added to her online banking and mobile banking apps. But for me to uphold 
this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Barclays had done something wrong or 
treated Mrs M unfairly.
Mrs M was added as an additional signatory for the business in November 2022. As part of 
this process, Mrs M was asked what products she would require to manage the account and 
she ticked the boxes for online banking, business debit card and telephone banking. 
Mrs M received a message about her telephone number being updated. I accept that this 
was worrying as she hadnt made any changes. Barclays acknowledged that it had made a 
mistake and added Mrs Ms business phone number to her personal profile. When Mrs M 
contacted Barclays it corrected the mistake and paid her £25 compensation for the upset 
caused. I find this reasonable.
Mrs M looked at her online banking and found that the business had been added. I 
understand that Mrs M wasnt expecting this, but Barclays has explained that this is its usual 
business practice and is intended to make access easier for its customers. Mrs M had said 
she wanted online banking access when completing the mandate and so I do not find that 
Barclays did anything wrong by including both business and personal accounts in Mrs Ms 
online banking and mobile banking apps.
Mrs M was concerned about potential liability for the business. Barclays made it clear when 
she asked about this that she wouldnt be liable for the business (unless she had a separate 
arrangement in place to that effect). I understand Mrs Ms concern when she received a 
letter which she read as suggesting she was a director, but Barclays has explained the letter 
was sent to both Mrs M and the director which was why both titles were included. Therefore, 
while I understand Mrs Ms concerns, I find that Barclays has been clear that she is recorded 
as a signatory and not a director and that the presence of the business on her online 
banking doesnt result in her having liability for the business accounts.
Mrs M was concerned about the linking of her personal and business accounts, and I can 
see that Barclays tried to resolve this for her by setting up a new membership number and 
providing information on how to remove an account from her app. I understand that Mrs M 
isnt happy with this outcome, but I find that Barclays has tried to assist her.
Overall, aside from the issue with the phone number that I consider to have been fairly 
resolved, I do not find that Barclays has done anything wrong. It has reassured Mrs M that 
she isnt set up as a director but as a signatory for the business and taken steps to try to 
amend the set up on her online banking to better meet Mrs Ms preference. Because of this I 
do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman