DRN-2074219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs D in 2005, in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs D if they couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs D the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs D are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs D say Halifax gave them the impression they had to buy the PPI as part of the 
mortgage package, and that they werent given a proper choice. Ive noted everything Mr 
and Mrs D have said.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much evidence from the time the policy was sold, which 
isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. And its similar to other cases Ive 
seen.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs D and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs D have told me, I dont think I can fairly 
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs D to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr and Mrs D say they were entitled to employer benefits if they couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident, and that they had critical illness cover in place. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to their employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for 
longer. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs D could use their employer 
benefits to pay for other expenses. 
In addition, its likely that their critical illness cover wouldve only paid out in connection with 
specific medical conditions, whereas the PPI covered them if they were off work because of  
accident, sickness and unemployment. So Im not persuaded that the PPI duplicated their 
critical illness cover. As such, I think Mr and Mrs D wouldve had some use for the policy, 
despite their existing arrangements.  
- Mr and Mrs D werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely 
they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs D before they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs D 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs D werent affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still 
have taken out the policy.
Mr and Mrs D have queried the amount of commission Halifax received in connection with the 
policy. As the adjudicator has explained, Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was a regulated mortgage. 
Which means irrespective of the amount of commission Halifax received, its not required to refund 
the commission to Mr and Mrs D. As such this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about 
the case, and I wont asking Halifax to provide more information about the commission it received.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman