DRN-1720401
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that his claim for storm damage was turned down by AXA Insurance UK Plc 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R found water coming through the roof of his porch during heavy rain. He contacted AXA 
to make a claim. AXA assessed that it was borderline whether there were storm conditions 
at the time of the water leak, but offered to send a surveyor to assess the damage. Mr R 
declined to have a surveyor visit. As a result, AXA turned down the claim as it said the leak 
was most likely due to wear and tear.
Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was 
reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim because it didnt meet the conditions for it to be 
dealt with as a storm claim and appeared to be due to wear and tear, which wasnt covered 
by the policy.
As Mr R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R wants his claim for storm damage to be accepted by AXA. I therefore need to decide 
whether I think AXA should have accepted the claim. When we consider storm claim 
complaints, there are three main issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes, then the claim is likely to succeed. If the answer 
to any of these questions is no, the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be covered.
For the first question, I agree with AXA that it was borderline whether there were storm 
conditions. The policy booklet defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) which are the equivalent to 
Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale.
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour.
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours).
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
 Looking at weather reports from around the time of the claim, these show that there was 
wind and rain in the period before Mr R made his insurance claim. However, the weather 
reports didnt show that there were storm conditions, although at times the weather 
conditions got close to it. So, I think it was reasonable for AXA to offer to send a surveyor to 
see if the likely cause of the damage was a storm. However, Mr R declined the visit.
So, AXA had to make its decision based on the weather reports and what Mr R said when he 
made the claim. Mr R told AXA it was a flat roof that was about 20 years old and described 
the condition of the roof. Given the expected life span of a flat roof and the lack of 
information to show an alternative cause of the damage that fell within the terms of the 
policy, AXA concluded that the damage was most likely due to wear and tear. 
Thinking about the above, I think that it was reasonable for AXA to decide that the damage 
to the roof was most likely to be caused by wear and tear rather than a storm. As wear and 
tear isnt covered by the policy, it was therefore reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim. 
Mr R also provided this service with the invoice for the roof repair that he paid to be carried 
out privately. The invoice didnt include any information on the condition of the roof before it 
was repaired or the reason for it needing to be replaced. So, this didnt give me any reason 
to think that AXAs decision was wrong. 
On the basis of all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2September2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman