DRN-1623183
 
complaint
Mrs G has brought this complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr A. Mrs G says Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold Mr A payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with a mortgage in 1988.
background
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when neither party has been able to provide 
much from the time of the sale. And its maybe not surprising thats the case as these events 
happened over 30 years ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to 
make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do 
have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I explain why below.
I have seen the mortgage application from 1988. It contains no mention of PPI. To get the 
PPI Mr A would have had to complete a separate application for it, which suggests it was 
separate to that application, and not dependent upon it. So, it seems most likely from what 
Ive seen that Mr A would have understood he had a choice about taking PPI at the time and 
chose to take it. In any event, even if I had no documentation to consider, given the length of 
time since the sale, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on 
these points. 
Halifax said it recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it had to take reasonable steps to ensure 
the policy was suitable for him. I have looked at Mr As circumstances at the time, and I dont 
think it was an unsuitable recommendation. I explain why I say this below. 
I think Mr A was eligible for the policy, and he wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. I say that whilst noting Mrs G told us Mr A had a 
condition as a child which may have been an issue to him at the time of the sale. Halifax have not been able to provide a copy of the terms that applied to Mr As PPI. Halifax has 
pointed us to a policy document that applied some time later. That document suggests that 
the policy might not pay out if someone tried to claim under the disability cover for a 
condition that had caused them to seek medical advice or treatment in the preceding 36 
months. This document covered late 1993 and early 1994. 
But this document isnt the oldest such document that we have for this type of cover from 
this business in our archive. The policy that immediately predates that policy, which covered 
much of 1993, limited the exclusion only to anyone seeking medical attention about a pre 
existing medical condition in the preceding 12 months and which reoccurs within the first 24 
months of the policy. I mention this as an example of how policies can sometimes become 
subject to more specific and searching criteria as years pass. So the policy terms that 
applied in 1988 may have been less severe than the earliest policy booklet suggests. Or 
there may have been no exclusion that applied to existing medical conditions at all. So, 
without seeing the actual policy that applied there is some doubt that pre-existing medical 
conditions would have been subject to any restrictions, or what they may have been had 
they existed.  
But even if Mr As policy was subject to possible restrictions in this regard, would that have 
been enough to put Mr A off the PPI? Its hard to decide this under ordinary circumstances. 
But in this case Mr A died in 2007. I am sending my belated condolences to Mrs G for her 
loss. But this means we cant ask Mr A for his thoughts on this issue or recollections on how 
the condition affected him at the time of the sale. Mrs G has tried to get us some medical 
records but without any success, due to the passing of time since Mr As death. So, theres 
no documentary evidence for me to refer to. 
Mrs G has provided some testimony on the subject. I wont repeat in the decision the details 
Mrs G provided as we try to avoid details in decisions which could enable consumers to be 
identified. But Ive read everything that Mrs G told us about Mr A and his condition. Mrs G 
told us that she could not recall if Mr A needed any medical treatment in the 36 months 
before the sale. So, its difficult to know whether restrictions applied to pre existing medical 
conditions under the policy, and if so whether that would have put Mr A off the policy had 
Halifax provided better information about this. I have considered that Halifax has referred us 
to a document that does suggest there were restrictions that applied and haver proceeded 
on that basis. Ive also considered that Mr A may have wanted the cover the policy offered 
for medical conditions that werent pre-existing, and cover if he lost is job.  
So, thinking about all the details of this issue, I havent seen sufficient evidence to think that 
any possible exclusions in respect of pre-existing medical conditions would have made this 
otherwise suitable policy unsuitable. 
I think Mr A had a need for the cover this policy could have provided. I say this because Mr A 
told us that whilst he good sick pay initially, it wouldnt have supported him for as long as the 
policy, which could have paid out for up to 24 months. And whilst Mr A had some savings, I 
note that he chose to protect them at the time, by not using them to take a smaller mortgage. 
This policy could have paid the mortgage amount for up to 24 months, in the event Mr A 
suffered from ill health, would have paid in addition to any sick pay Mr A may have received 
and would have further protected his savings. And the policy would have paid out on a 
successful claim for up to a year if Mr A lost his job. So, having thought carefully about this, 
and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I 
think Mr A could have found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other policies that offered similar 
benefits at the time and it appears to have been affordable (Mr A afforded the policy for 
some time). As well as checking the policy was right for Mr A, Halifax also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy, so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave Mr A was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mr A, Im not persuaded more or better information 
would have made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. And I make no award against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G who 
represents the estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 8July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman