DRN-4013939
The complaint
Mr D, as a director, complains on behalf of T, a limited company, about Zurich Insurance 
PLCs handling of a claim made on a business insurance policy.
What happened
T holds insurance with Zurich. In August 2020, Ts premises were flooded and a claim was 
made with Zurich. 
Zurich made a settlement for items damaged in the flood in March 2022. Mr D, on behalf of 
T, complained in June 2022 that Zurich hadnt made a settlement under the business 
interruption section of the policy, even though a sum has been calculated for this. He was 
also unhappy with the length of time taken to progress the claim as a whole.
Zurich acknowledged that the claim had been unnecessarily delayed and offered £350 
compensation to recognise this. However, it said that further information was required in 
order to properly calculate the appropriate settlement under the business interruption section 
of cover. 
Mr D referred Ts complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Zurich should pay an 
additional £250 compensation because of the avoidable delays. Zurich accepted our 
investigators findings. Mr D didnt accept this as he said Zurich should also be required to 
pay the business interruption settlement. As no agreement could be reached, Ts complaint 
has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that since Mr D referred Ts complaint to our service, Zurich has outlined to our 
investigator what further information it says is still required in order to calculate the 
settlement for the business interruption element of Ts claim. Mr D continues to disagree with 
Zurichs position. Zurich has said it doesnt consent for our service to consider matters which 
have occurred since it issued its final response to Ts complaint in August 2022. As thats the 
case, Ill only be considering Zurichs handling of the claim up to that date. I wont comment 
on anything thats happened since.
Insurers must handle claims promptly and effectively. Its accepted that an insurance claim 
will cause disruption and inconvenience, and will often take some time to resolve. However, 
insurers cant cause unnecessary and avoidable delays. Zurich has acknowledged that there 
were avoidable delays during the course of Ts claim. It offered £350 as compensation for 
this. Mr D believes the compensation should be higher, pointing to medical problems he and 
his wife have suffered during the course of the claim which he attributes to the delays. He 
also says theres no reason for the business interruption not to have been paid.
What I need to do therefore is establish what avoidable delays there were, up to August 
2022, the impact of these delays and appropriate compensation for this, and finally whether I 
can conclude that Zurich should have made the business interruption settlement by August 
2022.
Delays and their impact
Zurich accepts there had been delays to the claim, and also with our investigators 
conclusions around the delays, and how that should be recognised.
Mr D, on behalf of T, has explained the impact on himself and his wife. He points to health 
problems which he attributes to Zurichs lack of action to resolve the claim and says the 
business has ceased trading because of the delays.
Im sorry to hear of the health issues of Mr D and his wife. However, Im unable to make any 
award to recognise the distress and inconvenience theyve suffered individually, as the entity 
complaining to our service is T itself  not them as individuals. We can only award 
compensation which recognises the inconvenience to T.
As Ive covered below, the settlement for business interruption remains outstanding, and Mr 
T links the failure to settle this as being one of the primary reasons why T ceased trading. 
The claim itself had been ongoing for around two years by the time of Ts complaint, and 
Zurichs final response to the complaint. I acknowledge that there are complexities to a claim 
of this nature, which involves a number of different stakeholders and elements to the claim. 
The premises T trades from are owned by a separate entity, with certain insurance matters 
being dealt with by them. There are claims for equipment and goods at the premises, as well 
as the business interruption.
It's apparent that there were several occasions on which little or no meaningful progress 
occurred for several weeks or months. Within those periods, I cant see any explanation for 
the delays or pro-active efforts on the part of Zurich to chase up outstanding information or 
carry out further enquiries. I also think its fair to say there was a lack of meaningful updates 
to T during these periods.
Im satisfied that the lack of clarity and need to chase up Zurich for updates on the claim, as 
well as deal with enquiries on a piecemeal basis, would have the effect of causing 
inconvenience to T. To recognise that inconvenience, I agree that the £600 proposed by our 
investigator as total compensation is a fair amount. Its in line with our approach to these 
matters, while also recognising that the distress caused to Mr T and his wife isnt something 
we can take into account.
Zurich had already offered £350 compensation, so should pay an additional £250, making 
£600 in total.
Business interruption settlement
The business interruption section of the policy effectively makes a settlement where due to 
an insured event occurring, a business is unable to trade until damaged equipment and 
premises are repaired or replaced. In order to calculate the correct settlement, the insurer 
will typically need to see the business accounts and other records. 
The role of our service isnt to act as a claim handler, so Im not in a position to calculate 
what settlement Zurich should be making for business interruption. What I can do is say 
whether I believe the requests made by Zurich were reasonable, and whether any 
reasonable enquiries were outstanding at the time of its final response to Ts complaint in August 2022. If I conclude that there were reasonable outstanding enquiries at that time, I 
wont be able to say Zurich should have settled the claim on or before that date.
In its final response to Mr D, Zurich said that in order to move forward with the business 
interruption claim, it needed to carry our further enquiries. Ive seen correspondence send by 
Zurich to Ts representatives, and to other parties which T was copied into, outlining 
enquiries Zurich was seeking to make in order to validate Ts claim.
Those emails followed correspondence between T and various representatives of Zurich, 
including an accountant. At the conclusion of that correspondence, a figure was put forward 
by Zurichs accountant as being the amount claimed by T for the business interruption 
element of the claim. T agreed with this figure. 
Zurich maintained up to the point of issuing its final response to Ts claim (and continues to 
say) that without the necessary information being received and the enquiries completed, its 
unable to make any further payment to T in settlement of any aspect of the claim.
Zurichs queries are focussed on having clarity on the timeline of the claim, an understanding 
and evidence of the items and amounts being claimed and detail around the awareness of 
the incident and actions taken by others involved. 
Based on what Ive seen, and given the amounts being claimed, Im satisfied that the 
enquiries were reasonable and proportionate. Im also satisfied that up to the point of 
Zurichs final response, and between July and August 2022, Zurich had communicated 
appropriately with T about the enquiries it was carrying out and that these were necessary in 
order to proceed with the claim. 
I havent seen any evidence that T was told by Zurich that the amount put forward in July 
2022 would be paid, or that liability for that claim had been accepted by Zurich. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Ts complaint in part. In order to put things right, Zurich 
Insurance PLC must pay an additional £250 compensation, making £600 in total. Zurich 
must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it T accepts our decision. If it doesnt, it 
must pay simple interest on this amount at a rate of 8% from that date to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman