DRN-4493338
The complaint
Mr J complains, through a representative, that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket 
(Quidmarket) failed to carry out proportionate affordability checks before it granted the 
loans.
What happened
Mr J was granted seven loans and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
daterepayment 
period 
(months)highest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 06/11/2017 26/01/2018 3 £236.40
2 £600.00 26/01/2018 25/05/2018 4 £249.70
3 £500.00 01/06/2018 28/09/2018 4 £205.59
4 £450.00 07/11/2018 29/03/2019 5 £154.17
Break in lending 
5 £500.00 20/01/2020 27/03/2020 3 £218.95
6 £400.00 08/05/2020 28/08/2020 4 £156.94
7 £1,000.00 01/12/2020 outstanding 6 £329.06
Following Mr Js representatives complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter
(FRL), and it partly upheld the complaint. For loans 1  3 and loans 5 and 6 Quidmarket
considered it had carried out proportionate creditworthiness checks and so didnt uphold
these loans.
However, it did say for loans 4 and 7 that further checks ought to have been carried out and 
so Quidmarket upheld the complaint about those loans. Quidmarket outlined its calculations
and said that Mr J would still have an outstanding balance to pay of £575.52.
Mr J didnt accept the offer and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who, in his latest assessment, said
Quidmarket shouldnt have granted loans 1  3. He said that a County Court Judgement
(CCJ) had been applied to Mr Js credit file shortly before loan 1 and despite this relating to a
historic default he thought that Quidmarket ought to have carried out more in-depth checks
before granting these loans.
Mr J had provided his bank statements which showed he was having problems managing his
money because he had at least four outstanding payday loans, so he thought that had 
further checks been carried out Quidmarket should not have granted these loans. Finally, he 
also thought Quidmarkets offer for loans 4 and 7 was fair and reasonable.
Quidmarket acknowledged the latest assessment, and it didnt provide any further comments
as to whether it agreed with it (or not). Therefore, in order to resolve the complaint, it was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Js 
complaint in part. Both parties were given the opportunity to provide any further comments or 
submissions as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 24 November 2023. 
Mr Js representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and said that it would 
forward any further points onto us for further consideration. No further submissions were 
made and so I think its reasonable to conclude that neither Mr J nor his representative has 
anything further to add. 
Quidmarket queried the assessments it had received from the adjudicator in relation to what 
loans were being upheld. It also said;
There was not a requirement in March 2018 to check the level of income stated by 
the customer (That was instigated by the FCA in Nov 2018), and the level of checks 
stated was not proportional that early in the lending chain.
A copy the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr J could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Js
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors include:
Mr J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr J. The adjudicator didnt think this
point was reached in Mr Js complaint and I agree, taking account the number of loan chains
and the length of them.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr J was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Js complaint.
Neither Quidmarket nor Mr J (or his representative) seem to have disagreed with the
adjudicators decision to not uphold loans 5 or 6. Neither does there appear to be any
dispute that loans 4 and 7 ought to not have been granted, after all Quidmarket has already
made an offer on these loans and for completeness, Ive included these loans in the redress
at the end of this decision.
It therefore seems these loans are no longer in dispute and so I shall say no more about
them. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Quidmarket did all it ought to have done
before advancing loans 1, 2 and 3.
Loan 1
For this loan Quidmarket asked Mr J about his income and expenditure details and Mr J
declared an income of £2,500 per month. Quidmarket has said that the income was
electronically verified but it hasnt provided a copy of the results it received.
He also declared outgoings of £1,250 across several categories such as rent, food, credit
commitments and utilities  which potentially left Mr J £1,250 per month in disposable
income to afford the repayment of £236.40. However, Quidmarket made an adjustment to
Mr Js monthly outgoings  it increased his monthly outgoings to £1,875. But even with the
smaller disposable income figure the loan still looked affordable.
A credit search was also carried out and Quidmarket has provided a copy of the results that
it received from the credit reference agency. So, Ive looked at these to see if there was
anything contained within it that ought to have either led Quidmarket to have conducted
further checks and / or declined the application for the loan.
The results showed that Mr J had 12 active accounts when this loan was approved, he had
opened five accounts within the previous six months. It knew Mr J owed other creditors just
over £5,000. So superficially, there wasnt anything that demonstrated Mr J was reliant on
this sort of borrowing.
But it did know that Mr J had recently had a CCJ recorded against him in September 2017.
And this is what the adjudicator said ought to have been sufficient to prompt Quidmarket to
carry out further checks. Whereas, Quidmarket said, this CCJ related to a historic default so
was not relevant.
Ive thought carefully about this, and having reviewed the credit file in its entirely, I dont think
the CCJ wouldve prompted further checks. I say this because it is clear, from the results that
the CCJ is connected with a default recorded on the credit file in 2013 for a
telecommunication account. And so, while the CCJ did show that Mr J couldnt repay the
balance when asked by the courts (in full) it wasnt connected to a recent default and so I
dont think, the recent CCJ shouldve prompted further checks when consider what else
Quidmarket was aware of.
There hadnt been any recent adverse payment information recorded on his credit file, he
was within his limits on his mail order accounts and while Quidmarket did know of one other
outstanding payday loan that isnt going to be sufficient for me to say further checks needed
to have been carried out especially because it had been opened in May 2017. Overall,
Quidmarket knew that Mr Ms monthly credit commitments likely came to around £500 per
month. This likely explains why Quidmarket adjusted Mr Js declared income figures for this
loan.
Overall, in my view, the checks were proportionate and showed Mr J could potentially afford
the repayments he was committed to making. Im therefore intending to not uphold Mr Js
complaint about this loan.Loans 2 and 3
Loan 2 was advanced on the same day that loan 1 was repaid, and it was for a larger sum to
be repaid over a longer term. While loan 3 was taken six days after loan 2 was repaid and
was for the same capital value as loan 1. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about these
two loans.
Quidmarket carried out the same sort of checks for these two loans as it had done for loan 1.
For loan 2, Mr J declared an income of £2,200 per month and he declared outgoings across
the same categories as I previous mentioned of £1,450. As before, Quidmarket made
adjustments to his outgoings after carrying out a credit search and it therefore believed
Mr Js monthly outgoings were more likely to be £1,703 each month.
For loan 3, Mr J declared monthly income of £3,000 and outgoings of £1,500. Quidmarket
made adjustments and so for its affordability assessment, it used monthly outgoings of
£1,930. But even with this larger monthly outgoing used by Quidmarket for loans 2 and 3
these loans still appeared affordable.
Quidmarket also carried out a credit search before each loan was approved, and it has
provided the results that it received.
For loan 2, it knew Mr Js total outstanding debt had double compared to the results it was
provided with for loan 1. This time, his debts were over £10,200, his outstanding credit
accounts had increased to 18 and Mr J was still demonstrating a need for regular further
credit. I say this because Quidmarket was told that in the last six months, he had opened
seven accounts. One of those accounts being loan 1.
But still, Quidmarket was now being provided with information that demonstrated Mr Js total
outstanding debt was larger, he had more active accounts than when the relationship started
and key, in my view is that Mr J was still demonstrating an ongoing need for funds and
credit.
It knew that Mr J had four telecommunication accounts costing £125 per month. It knew of
two Finance House loans which were likely to be either instalment loans or long-term high
cost credit loans. These were costing Mr J £276 per month. There were also six Hire
Purchase agreements  all of which appear to be items purchased from a retailer rather than
say for a purchase of a car. The cost per month for these loans came to £290.
Finally, with there were two mail order accounts, one that had been recently opened in
October 2017 which had a balance of £144 against a credit limit of £200. The final mail order
account was actually over the credit limit, Mr J owed £1,507 against a credit limit of £1,500.
Although, for this mail order account no adverse payment information had been reported, the
fact that Mr J was over his credit limit does indicate that he was at least, at the point the
information was reported to the credit reference agencies, having problems managing his
existing credit commitments.
Taking account of the lending history and the information contained within the credit report I
have concluded, like the adjudicator, that Quidmarket ought to have been sufficiently
concerned that it shouldve carried out further checks before loans 2 and 3 were granted,
which ought to have included obtaining a full understanding of Mr Js financial position.
Quidmarket couldve gone about gathering this further information a number of ways, it
couldve asked for evidence of his income such as through a wage slip and in terms of Mr Js
outgoings it couldve asked for copies of the bills or any other documentation it felt it was
necessary to obtain. Or, as the adjudicator has done, Quidmarket couldve asked to review
Mr Js bank statements.
Had further checks been carried out before loan 2 was granted, I think Quidmarket wouldve
discovered that Mr J had two other payday loans outstanding with two other lenders. But the
key issue here was that Mr Js income wasnt as high as Quidmarket believed, at loan 2, hisincome was around £1,900 per month  which does then make the loan in my view
unaffordable given that Quidmarket used outgoings of £1,703 which didnt leave enough
disposable income to afford the repayments.
In addition, in the month before the loan was approved, there had been eight returned direct
debits and some were returned on more than one occasion. This, according to regulations
(in CONC 1.3) is a sign of financial difficulties. So overall Quidmarket shouldve, carried out
additional checks and realised that loans 2 and 3 werent affordable for Mr J.
I am therefore currently upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 2 and 3 and Ive outlined
below what Quidmarket needs to do in order to put things right for him including the offer that
it has already made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J had no new submission, so Ive focused here on what QuidMarket said in response to 
the provisional decision. Ive considered everything that has been said but I am still of the 
view that in addition to loans 4 and 7 loans 2 and 3 should also be upheld and Ive explained 
why below. 
Firstly, it may help to confirm the timeline of events and what the adjudicator decided at what 
point in time. The first assessment was in August 2023, in which the adjudicator upheld 
loans 1  4 and loan 7. Following QuidMarkets comments and a request for further 
information the adjudicator then endorsed the offer QuidMarket had made for loans 4 and 7 
only  this was sent to both parties on 15 September 2023. 
Mr J then provided bank statements and in a letter of 12 October 2023, the adjudicator 
reinstated his original view  which was loans 1  4 and loan 7 ought to be upheld.   
But regardless of what the adjudicator decided because no agreement could be reached the 
case was then passed to me to decide. Having reviewed all the evidence, and for the 
reasons outlined in the provisional decision, I considered a fair outcome to be that 
Quidmarket pays compensation for loans 2, 3, 4 and 7. 
Secondly, at the time loans 2 and 3 were granted, the relevant guidance issued by the 
regulator (The FCA) was found in part 5.2 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
rules in place at the time were much the same as those the FCA introduced in November 
2018 in CONC 5.2A. 
However, there was always a requirement within either guise of the regulations for a 
proportionate check to be carried out depending on the particular circumstances of the 
application as outlined in CONC 5.2.1(1) and CONC 5.2.4. Its also worth adding here that 
CONC 5.2.4.(3)(b) does allow a lender  if it saw fit to gather evidence of a customers 
income. 
So, in this case, the credit check results that QuidMarket received ought to have put it on 
notice that there was a risk that Mr J was already having difficulties managing his finances. 
And, although it was early on in the lending chain, I do think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Quidmarket to have undertaken further checks  as was outlined in the provisional 
decision. 
And as I explained, those checks needed to extend to verifying the information Mr J provided 
and had it done so, I think it was likely that Quidmarket wouldve discovered that Mr Js income wasnt as large as he suggested. The bank statements also showed that Mr J had 
significant problems meeting his existing direct debit payments. 
I therefore think, taking account of Quidmarkets most recent submission that Mr Js 
complaint should still be upheld about loans 2, 3, 4 and 7.  Ive set out below what 
QuidMarket needs to do in order to put things right for Mr J. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans 2, 3, 4 and 7 to Mr J, as Im satisfied it ought not
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So,
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr J loans 2, 3, 4 and 7.
If Quidmarket has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Quidmarket isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 2, 3 and 4.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr J which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 7, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan. If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then 
Quidmarket should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled. Quidmarket should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B can 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 7. If this results in a surplus, then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Quidmarket should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J.
E. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in 
relation to loans 2, 3, 4 and 7.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr J as directed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman