DRN-3396222
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC are holding them responsible for two bank 
transfers that they did not make or otherwise authorise from their joint current account.
Mr M has taken the lead on the complaint, so I will refer to his submissions throughout my 
decision. I intend no discourtesy to Mrs M by doing so.
What happened
On 3 December 2020, Mr M received a text message asking if hed set up a new payee from 
the joint account. Mr M explains that he hadnt, and that he tried to call Lloyds about it at the 
time, but he had to give up as the phone lines were too busy and he couldnt get through.
Later that afternoon, a device was registered to use mobile banking using Mr Ms mobile 
number. Mr M has explained that he didnt have his laptop with him when he received the 
text message so he tried to download the mobile banking app onto his phone in order to log 
in and stop the payment mentioned in the text message. Mr M maintains that he was never 
able to log into the mobile banking app on his phone and that mobile banking has never 
worked for him. 
In the early hours of the morning on 4 December 2020, two payments were made to a new 
payee. The transfers were made using mobile banking by the device that had been 
registered the previous afternoon. Mrs M happened to be awake and logged in around the 
time that the second payment was made. Mr M has provided screenshots to show the 
transactions were reported using the banks online chat straight away. Later that morning, 
Mr M spoke to Lloyds on the phone. 
Lloyds started looking into things. The banks technical records showed that two further 
attempted payments had been blocked. It initially refunded Mr and Mrs M. But later that day, 
it reversed that position and said it was holding Mr and Mrs M responsible. It said the 
payments had been made using Mr Ms registered mobile device with fingerprint. When 
Mr M complained, the bank did not change its position. In its first final response letter on 
21 December 2020, it said it could not see how anyone else could have made the payments 
because there was no compromise of Mr Ms phone or his internet banking passwords. It 
paid £75 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience that had been 
caused by crediting and then re-debiting a refund. Mr M continued to dispute the matter. He 
also pointed out that hed been left without a bank card for almost all of December. In the 
banks second final response, it suggested that Mr M should refer the complaint to this 
service. 
Mr M contacted us. He said it was clear that there had been a fraud caused by the hacking 
of Lloyds security systems. 
The complaint was looked into by one of our Investigators. During the course of his 
investigation, our Investigator established that the text message Mr M had received on the 
afternoon of 3 December 2020 wasnt genuinely from the bank. He was concerned that Mr M 
could have been the victim of a scam and that the text message had been phishing for him 
to reveal personal information. Mr M couldnt remember if hed clicked on the link contained 
within the text message or not. He said hed not received any phone calls from anyone he 
didnt know personally around that time and reiterated that hed never been able to log into 
Lloyds app. Mr M was very clear that hed not been tricked into making the payments under 
false pretences. He said this fraud was only possible because Lloyds security had been 
hacked. 
After considering everything, our Investigator concluded that Lloyds had provided sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that the payments were made with Mr Ms consent. He explained 
the banks process to add the mobile banking app to a device, which included entering 
personalised memorable information and an automated phone call being made to the 
customers registered mobile number. He said he could not see how a third party could have 
taken these steps because Mr M had been clear that no one else had accessed his mobile 
phone, that he didnt click on the link contained in the phishing text and that hed not shared 
any personalised security information with anyone else. Our Investigator acknowledged that 
the situation had been very distressing and inconvenient for Mr M, but explained that he was 
unable to ask Lloyds to pay compensation for the time hed spent trying to get a refund when 
he didnt think the bank had come to the wrong outcome on the fraud claim. 
Mr M didnt agree. He was disappointed with the outcome and compared it to the toss of a 
coin. He pointed out he would not spend so long pursuing this matter if hed made the 
transactions himself. He made a subject access request as he thought Lloyds wasnt sharing 
vital information about the investigation with us. Mr M asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
again by an Ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide. 
My further investigation 
At Mr Ms request, we had an initial conversation about the case. Mr M explained there had 
been a crime here and that the Investigator had sat on the fence and so sided against him. 
He asked for more time to review the paperwork obtained from the subject access request. 
Mr M later explained that hed not had the chance to look at the paperwork because work 
and family commitments had taken over. He reiterated he wouldnt still be pursuing this 
matter if he didnt have a genuine claim, especially as the time and effort this matter has 
taken now outweighs the value of the loss. 
I noted the banks position that the disputed transfers were made using the device that was 
set up the day before. I also noted that Mr M maintained that hed not been able to log into 
mobile banking at any point. I felt that those positions could not both be right. So I asked the 
bank if it had any further technical records of mobile banking access for the day before the 
disputed transactions happened. 
Lloyds responded to say it no longer had that specific information, but it was able to confirm 
that Mr Ms genuine phone number was involved in registering the device and provided 
extracts from its records to support this. It also referred me to a recording of a phone call 
Mr M had with the bank on 4 December 2020 where the bank says he confirmed he 
registered the new device. 
I listened to the recording and shared the following transcript of the conversation with Mr M:
L: Okay there's a new phone that's been registered on your account yesterday...erm, did you
register a new phone with your account?
Mr M: YesL: You have?
Mr M: at 615 ending?
L: erm, let me see, it doesn't give, obviously, just says there has been an iPhone that was
registered yesterday at about 5:05
Mr M: That was me.
L: That was you then?
Mr M: Yep
L: Okay, no problem.
Mr M responded to say its not a new phone, it is his only phone and it didnt register as 
mobile banking had never worked for him. He felt this extract of dialogue was part of the 
problem as the conversation shows the bank didnt listen to understand.
As both sides have had a fair opportunity to provide further comments and evidence, I have 
now considered the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr M feels very strongly about what happened. Its understandable thats 
hes upset. Money has been taken from his account and he feels the only way this was 
possible is by the banks systems being compromised. It is not my role to establish the 
identity of any potential fraudster. My role is to consider whether Lloyds has acted fairly and 
reasonably by holding Mr and Mrs M liable for the transactions in dispute.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In cases when there is a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence.
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017, (the PSRs), 
which apply to transactions like the ones in dispute. 
The PSRs say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must show the transactions 
in dispute were authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, I can see from the banks 
evidence that the transactions were made from mobile banking using a device set up to link 
to the account and associated with Mr Ms mobile number. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the account holder authorised 
the payments. Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important 
because account holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, 
generally speaking, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments. 
If Mr M made the disputed transactions himself or authorised for them to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask Lloyds to refund them. The PSRs explain that a transaction 
is only authorised if a payer gives consent in accordance with the form and procedure 
agreed with the payment service provider. But Mr M says he was not involved in the 
payments in dispute. So the key question for me to consider is whether Lloyds has provided 
enough evidence to hold Mr and Mrs M responsible.
Turning to consent, Lloyds has provided evidence to show how mobile banking was set up 
along with log in records from the time the transactions were made. These records show that 
mobile banking was accessed by the same device that was registered the previous day and 
that the device is linked to the same telephone number that both Lloyds and this service hold 
for Mr M. Fingerprint biometrics were used to both log in and to make the payments. 
Mr M agrees that he did try to register his device at this time but maintains that the process 
was not successful. Ive thought about whether a third party could have set up a device and 
linked it to Mr Ms bank account without his knowledge or agreement. But this is not 
supported by the wider evidence. There are no other attempts to register a device at this 
time. In order to register a mobile device, the user must download and open the online 
banking app, entering their username and password, along with personalised security 
information. A four-digit code is then displayed on screen, which the user would have 
needed to confirm back to the bank in real time during an automated call to the registered 
mobile number. 
From what Mr M has described, there is no clear way how anyone else would have been 
able to learn his personalised security details, such as his User ID, his password and his 
memorable information. Its also difficult to see how a third party would have been able to 
start the process of registering a device without Mr Ms awareness given that the process 
generated a call to Mr Ms mobile phone. There is no suggestion of any problem with Mr Ms 
phone network. So I can see no way that a third party would have been able to complete the 
verification call required to add mobile banking to a device, the process of which includes 
entering a one-time passcode that can only be obtained by taking a call on the phone 
number registered. I also dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to assume that the 
process to register the device had completed successfully when Mr M told the bank over the 
phone that he recognised the registration activity as his own. 
Turning now to the specific transactions, the bank has provided technical evidence to show 
that fingerprint recognition was used. This means the disputed payments must have been 
carried out by someone with a registered fingerprint on the mobile device used. Given that 
I cannot see any way for anyone other than Mr M to have registered the device, it follows 
that I cannot see any way for a unknown third party to make a payment from that device and 
verify it biometrically. 
I accept there are things in the wider circumstances of this case that could stand out as 
being potential indicators of fraudulent activity, such as Mr M receiving a phishing text 
message and further attempted payments being blocked. But I am not persuaded that the 
money left Mr and Mrs Ms account because the banks security systems had been hacked. 
I have seen no evidence to support this theory.  
Nor can I see any way that a third party could have obtained the information needed to make 
the disputed payments. Looking carefully at the steps required to set up mobile banking and 
then to make a payment using mobile banking, it would not have been possible to make 
these payments without validation processes that required interaction with Mr Ms genuine 
mobile phone number to complete. I dont see a likely or plausible way for anyone to have 
made these payments without Mr Ms knowledge or consent in the circumstances that he 
has described. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr M to 
receive. But given the evidence I have, and on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
fairly reach any other conclusion. I can see no way for anyone else to have accessed Mr Ms 
device or known his personal security information. From the evidence that both sides have 
provided to me, I dont consider that Lloyds acted unfairly by holding Mr and Mrs M liable for 
the payments in dispute. This means I am unable to agree that Lloyds should be required to 
take any further action now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman