DRN-2829521
The complaint
Miss J complains about a loan she took out with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).  
What happened
In August 2018 Miss J took out a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF to fund the purchase 
of a new kitchen. At the time of entering into the agreement, she asked if she could pay by 
credit card at the end of the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period and was told that she could. 
Miss J held an interest free credit card which she intended to use to pay off the agreement.
The BNPL period was due to end on 8 October 2019. On 9 October 2019 Miss J telephoned 
BPF and asked to pay the loan balance by credit card. BPF told Miss J she couldnt pay by 
this method as it no longer accepted credit card payments, but it agreed to extend the BNPL 
period by a further 3 months.
Miss J made a formal complaint. In response, BPF acknowledged that it had failed to notify 
Miss J that its payment options had changed. It confirmed that it would extend the BNPL 
period for 3 months and offered a distress and inconvenience payment of £25.00.
Miss J didnt repay the loan by the end of the extended BNPL period, so interest was added 
to the loan balance.
Miss J complained about the interest. In response, BPF said the interest had been correctly 
charged. It noticed that the £25 compensation hadnt been pad to Miss J and arranged for an 
increased payment of £50 to be paid. 
Miss J wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She says if shed 
been told that she couldnt pay the loan with a credit card she would have purchased the 
kitchen on her credit card to start with and not entered into the loan agreement.
Our investigator didnt think BPF had acted fairly. He said that although there hadnt been a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract, he thought BPF could have done more to 
communicate with Miss J about the changes to the acceptable payment methods. The 
investigator said that BPF should pay further compensation of £100 to Miss J. 
Miss J didnt agree. She made a further complaint and said BPF hadnt told her that if she 
settled the loan balance earlier than she did she would have paid less interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether Miss J might have a remedy under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. This says that in certain circumstances, a consumer has a like claim against 
the finance provider if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into 
an agreement. Its not in dispute that Miss J was told she could pay the loan off with a credit 
card. Nor is it in dispute that Miss J was later told that the payment methods had changed 
and that she could no longer pay with a credit card. I can see that BNPF made changes to 
its accepted payment methods after the date when Miss J entered into the agreement. It did 
so in response to FCA regulations preventing credit being used to pay credit. The timing of 
the change in the acceptable payment methods is relevant to this complaint, because at the 
time when Miss J entered into the agreement, it was still possible to pay off the loan by credit 
card. So, the salesperson hadnt made an untrue statement of fact when he/she told Miss J 
she could pay by this method. Because of this Im unable to say that theres been a 
misrepresentation. 
Ive also considered whether there was a breach of contract when the payment methods 
were changed. Ive looked at the credit agreement and whilst it contain information on 
payment methods, this is just information and doesnt form part of the terms and conditions 
of the agreement. So, Im unable to say that the changes in payment methods were a breach 
of contract.
Looking at the communication between BPF and Miss J, I dont think BPF provided clear 
information to make Miss J aware that the payment methods had changed. Although BPF 
says it told Miss J verbally in February 2019 that she couldnt pay by credit card, and that it 
sent her an email afterwards confirming this, the email includes credit cards as a payment 
method. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that BPF has acknowledged that it hadnt made Miss J 
aware of the changes to accepted payment methods.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss J wasnt aware that she couldnt pay by 
credit card when she called BPF in early October 2019 to settle the loan. That said, BPF is 
entitled to change its payment methods, and because it did do in response to FCA 
regulations, I think it acted reasonably in making those changes.
Ive taken into account Miss Js comments that she wasnt made aware that if she paid off 
the loan sooner, she would pay less interest. I can see that BPF sent a settlement letter to 
Miss J in November 2020. Miss J says she didnt receive this, so she wasnt aware that if 
she settled the loan in November, she wouldve received a refund of interest. Ive listened to 
some of the calls between Miss J and BPF from around this time as well. In one of the calls, 
the advisor explains to Miss J that if she pays the whole balance, she would get a rebate of 
interest of £711.55. Because of this  and even if Miss J didnt receive the settlement letter  
I think Miss J was made aware that if she settled the loan early, she would receive a rebate 
of interest. 
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that BPF couldve done more to communicate 
clearly with Miss J about the changes to the payment methods. The fact that it didnt do so 
has caused Miss J trouble and upset. I think BPF should pay further compensation of £100 
to Miss J.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance must pay further compensation of £100 to Miss J.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman