DRN-2003564
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax responded when he 
alerted it to fraud on his account.
What happened
Mr D told us that he was first alerted to possible fraud when his mobile phone provider told 
him someone was trying to migrate his mobile number. The phone provider said this is often 
associated with fraud, and advised him to talk to his bank. 
Mr D spoke to Halifax, and it told him that someone had set up a current account in his 
name, and moved a large sum of money from an old savings account he kept there. Mr D 
went to the branch, and was told hed need to show id, so he went back with that.
Halifaxs fraud team said theyd put blocks on the account. Mr D told the bank he was going 
on holiday in a few days.
While Mr D was away, his mobile phone provider got in touch again to say someone was 
trying to migrate his number. Mr D contacted Halifax, who told him the fraud blocks had been 
removed. Mr D said he was extremely worried that someone had been able to do this even 
with the extra security hes set up on the account. He told us his holiday was ruined. Halifax 
had also written to him saying all of his accounts were being closed because of fraud.
When Mr D got back, he complained. Halifax has put back the money that was fraudulently 
transferred out of his savings account. It apologised for sending a letter saying all of his 
accounts were being closed. It was only closing the fraudulently opened current account. 
Halifax paid Mr D £35 to cover his call costs, and £500 in compensation.
Mr D said that the stress of this ruined his holiday, and he wanted to get back the money 
hed spent on that. And he wanted to know how the blocks on his account had been 
removed. He was convinced that the fraud came from inside Halifax.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that we cant make 
Halifax tell us what happened, although he understood why Mr D wanted to know. He 
accepted that this wouldve had an impact on Mr Ds holiday. But he thought that in paying 
back all the missing money and paying compensation of £500, Halifax had provided a fair 
outcome, in line with what our service would expect to see. He didnt think that what 
happened in a previous incident, where Mr Ds identification documents were copied in a 
branch, was unreasonable. 
Mr D was very unhappy. He said Halifax had a considerable amount of time to look into this 
issue, and find out what had gone wrong, before the complaint came to our service. So it 
was no answer to simply say now that it was all too long ago, and no more could be done. 
Mr D said Halifax knew about the fraud before he went on holiday, and reassured him it was 
all sorted out, but it wasnt, and he only found out about this because his mobile phone 
provider got in touch. Halifax didnt bother to contact him. He was very worried about his 
savings while he was away. He said this ruined his holiday. And he expected that Halifax 
would pay for that.
Mr D wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D would like Halifax to set out how things went wrong in this case. He doesnt think it has 
done a full investigation. Hes convinced that the fraud was perpetrated by someone within 
Halifax. I cant rule that out entirely for Mr D, because I dont know exactly whats gone 
wrong. I do know that Halifax has done an internal investigation. I wouldnt expect it to set 
out for our service the full details of that. But I dont think Halifax has ignored the issues. And 
I dont think, as Mr D seemed to fear, that there is anyone within Halifax who is routinely 
engaging in fraud, and not being challenged. 
But as our investigator said, were not able to set out for Mr D exactly what went wrong here. 
We arent party to all the details of this investigation. And, as were not a regulator, its not 
the job of our service to make sure that Halifax has done everything possible to prevent this 
happening again. Were supposed to look at what has happened in Mr Ds case, and when 
something has gone wrong, check whats been done to put that right for Mr D.
Halifax has refunded the money fraudulently removed from Mr Ds account. It has paid £35 
for call costs, and £500 in compensation. Mr D says he wants much more, because his 
holiday was ruined. So he wants Halifax to pay him over £3,000 that he spent on that. 
I understand how stressful this was for Mr D, but I dont think that it would be consistent with 
awards Ive made in other cases to ask Halifax to pay that in this case. I think that what 
Halifax has done is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So, 
although I know Mr D will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman