DRN-4228867
The complaint
M was a partnership. One of the partners, who Ill refer to as Ms P, says that it is now a sole 
trader business. Ms P complains on behalf of M about Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of 
Ms financial difficulties, in particular Barclays failure to respond to her letters.   
What happened
M is a retail business. Its trading suffered in the pandemic and it successfully applied for a 
£15,000 Bounce Bank Loan (BBL) in 2020. 
In March 2022, the two partners agreed to end the business partnership, leaving Ms P solely 
running the business. 
By 2 September 2022, trading still hadnt recovered. Ms P wrote to Barclays explaining that 
M was no longer a partnership. She also said that M could no longer afford the BBL 
repayments. 
Barclays didnt reply to Ms Ms letter. Over the next two months, Ms P made three visits to 
her local branch to try and get in touch with Barclays Business Banking department. 
During this period, there was no money going into Ms current account, but the BBL 
repayments continued to go out, resulting in an overdraft on the account. 
On 8 December 2022, Ms P wrote a letter of complaint about Barclays lack of response.  
On 28 December, Ms P had a long call with Business Banking. During the call, the bank 
accepted that Ms P couldnt afford to make any repayments and therefore said they would 
fast-track transferring Ms accounts to Recoveries. The first stage in this process was for 
the bank to issue a default notice for the sums outstanding. They also said they would 
cancel the direct debit for the BBL and stop deducting account charges. Ms P asked for a 
letter to confirm what they had discussed. 
On 10 February 2023, having heard nothing from Barclays, Ms P referred her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
Barclays upheld Ms Ps complaint on 22 March 2023. They said they hadnt received Ms Ps 
September letter until the branch forwarded it on 7 October. They had then tried to ring her 
several times. They offered £150 compensation for stress and inconvenience as well as a 
refund of charges from the date of the 28 December call. 
On 24 March 2023, Barclays issued a default notice, giving Ms P a month to repay Ms 
overdraft. In June 2023, they transferred Ms accounts to an external debt collection agency. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He thought Barclays had made 
some errors by not contacting Ms P earlier and not sending the formal demand as promised 
in the December call until March. He thought the offer of £150 compensation was fair, but 
also thought Barclays should refund all interest and charges on the account from 
October 2022 onwards. 
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation, although they said they hadnt sent 
the default notice because their procedures said they should wait until theyd resolved 
Ms Ps complaint. 
Ms P didnt agree. She made the following points, in summary: 
She felt our investigator had failed to understand the impact on her mental health 
caused by Barclays inaction. The offer of £150 wasnt enough to reflect the degree 
of upset caused by what was a protracted and still ongoing saga. 
Barclays had continued to charge account fees until 12 April 2023. 
She hadnt received any voice messages or emails or other contact from a named 
party at the bank. 
Our investigator had suggested she was more upset about paying the debt, which 
wasnt the case. 
The situation had been going on for nine months (as at June 2023). Our published 
scale for compensatory awards on our website mentioned an award of up to £750 
where the mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and /or 
significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out 
and the impact lasts over many weeks or months. She thought this applied in her 
case and therefore felt £150 was disproportionately low. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment to Ms P, so Ill explain why. 
Its unfortunate that Barclays appear not to have received the letter Ms P says she sent on 
2 September 2022, but I dont think I can fairly hold them to blame for that. Barclays say they 
received this letter around five weeks later, on 8 October, when Ms Ps local branch 
forwarded it to Business Banking at her request. The bank have provided evidence that they 
then made three attempts to phone Ms P to discuss her letter on 8 and 9 October. She didnt 
answer the calls, although I note there is some suggestion that they were calling her on an 
old number at that point, despite Ms P having given her local branch a new number.  
The bank sent various standard letters regarding Ms overdraft and tried to call Ms P again 
towards the end of November and several times in December - and I think theres no dispute 
that these were to the correct number - before finally having a substantive conversation in 
late December.  
In my view, Ms Ps letter and three visits to the branch made it clear that M was in financial 
difficulties and Ms P needed to discuss these with the bank. The state of Ms bank account 
ought also to have indicated to Barclays that there was a problem. Given this position, I 
agree with our investigator that Barclays ought reasonably to have tried harder to contact 
Ms P, particularly given the lack of funds to meet Ms BBL repayments. I say this partly 
because even if the bank rang the correct number, it appears they left no messages and the 
branch was only able to pass on messages from Ms P, not facilitate a conversation. Ms P has pointed out that the debt on Ms current account is comprised entirely of BBL 
instalments and charges and interest. This decision - to let an overdraft build up on a current 
account by allowing loan repayments to go through rather than returning them for lack of 
funds - is a judgement the bank is entitled to make. It doesnt (aside from the interest) make 
any difference to the total amount owed by M across its accounts.   
Theres no obligation on a bank to write off debts just because they are told a business is in 
difficulties. So I dont consider there was any error by Barclays in seeking repayment of Ms 
debts from the partners or in moving Ms accounts to their Recoveries function and then 
external debt collectors. Banks are entitled to take fair actions to recover their debts and I 
think these steps were fair. Under the terms of the BBL scheme, banks are also required to 
take all reasonable steps to obtain repayment before any claim under the government 
guarantee can occur. 
The decision on when all steps to recover a debt are exhausted is one for the bank/ the 
external debt collectors. But the bank should, in my view, carry on their recoveries process in 
a timely manner and not delay unduly. With this in mind, I also agree that they shouldnt 
have waited until March 2023 to make formal demand, notwithstanding the ongoing 
complaint and their usual procedures in this regard. I say this particularly because the bank 
undertook to make formal demand promptly in the phone call in late December 2022. They 
also said they would put what was agreed in writing and failed to do so. 
This leaves me with the matter of the appropriate level of compensation for Barclays poor 
service. First, I think if the bank had had a conversation with Ms P earlier, then they would 
have frozen charges and interest at that point. I therefore agree with our investigator that a 
refund of charges and interest from October is appropriate. 
I know Ms P has said that it is solely the actions of Barclays that have caused her distress, 
not the situation itself. She regards the banks errors as entirely responsible for considerable 
stress lasting for many months. But Im afraid Im not persuaded that its fair to hold the bank 
solely - or even largely - responsible for this. 
I have no doubt that Ms P has been through a very distressing time. I can see that it has 
been deeply upsetting for her to have her business fail and realise that it is unable to repay 
its debts. And I can also see that she wants to resolve things and move on as quickly as 
possible. However, Im mindful that Barclays isnt responsible for the business failure. The 
banks poor service has resulted in matters being somewhat more protracted than they might 
have been. But it was always likely to have taken some time to resolve, and to have required 
some time and effort on Ms Ps part. 
Complaints where I think a higher level of compensation is merited are often those where I 
can see that dealing with the banks error took up large amounts of the complainants time in 
a way that shouldnt have been required. But I dont think this has been the case here. I also 
think that there are proactive steps Ms P could have taken to speed things up  for example, 
phoning the bank herself and persisting even if it was frustrating or difficult to get through, as 
well as telling the bank promptly about the departure of her business partner. So all in all, I 
dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to pay more compensation here. 
Putting things right
Taking all the circumstances into account, and bearing in mind our published guidance on 
compensation levels, my conclusion is that the £150 already offered by Barclays is enough 
to cover the distress and inconvenience caused by Barclays poor service in this case. In addition to this, the bank should refund any charges or interest on the current account 
incurred after 8 October 2022 (charges are made in arrears, so amounts debited after 
8 October 2022, but incurred in earlier periods, may still be charged). Interest should be 
added to these amounts at the rate of 8% simple per year, from the date debited until the 
date of settlement, as compensation for M being deprived of this sum for that period. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay compensation as I have specified. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman