DRN-3937147
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC applied a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In September 2020, Mr B received two payments into his account totalling £755. After these 
payments were credited to Mr Bs account, Metro received a notification from the sending 
bank informing it that its customer had reported them as being made as a result of fraud.
Metro carried out an investigation and decided to close Mr Bs account and load a fraud 
marker against his name on the Cifas database.
Mr B later realised the marker had been placed after it was impacting his ability to obtain 
employment. So, he made a complaint to Metro and informed it that hed received the funds 
innocently from a friend as a favour.
Metro looked into Mr Bs complaint but found that it hadnt made an error in loading the 
marker. Mr B, unhappy with this, referred his complaint to our service for an independent 
review.
An Adjudicator considered the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that Metro 
hadnt made an error. Broadly, the Adjudicator felt that Metro had adhered to the standards 
set out by Cifas when loading the marker.
Mr B disagreed with the Adjudicators assessment as he maintained that hed received the 
funds as a favour for a friend. So, the matter has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the relevant considerations here is set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit 
sets out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards regarding this 
complaint are:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
[Metro] could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr B] to the police.
My interpretation of these standards is that a member cannot simply load a marker 
against an individual based on mere suspicion. It must be able to meet a higher bar; in 
that a customer was likely a witting participant in the alleged conduct. This has been 
reinforced by Cifas Money Mule Guidance, which it released to its members in March 
2020.
Having considered the evidence carefully, Im satisfied Metro has been able to demonstrate 
its met the first of the two standards Ive listed above. Its been able to show that it received 
a report from a third-party bank setting out that the transactions were reported as fraud by 
the account holder. This clearly meets the bar that there are reasonable grounds to believe 
that a fraud or financial crime has been committed. So, Ive gone on to consider if Metro 
has been able to meet the second of the above two standards.
Mr B has consistently made representations that he had innocently received the funds on 
behalf of a friend that wanted to purchase a vehicle: but I agree with Metro that this isnt 
persuasive.
While I can appreciate Mr B no longer has a vast proportion of the evidence to support his 
testimony due to the passage of time, there does appear to be inconsistencies within the 
evidence available to support his submissions.
Firstly, there are valid questions around why a third-party would transfer funds to Mr B for 
the payment of a vehicle. Mr B has said that the third-party done this as they had lost their 
bank card and there had been fraud on their account. Yet, the third-party was able to 
access their bank account and process payments to Mr B which didnt require the use of a 
bank card. If the third-party was able to transfer funds to Mr B, then its reasonable to 
deduce that they were able to transfer the funds directly to the party they were purchasing 
the vehicle from.
Furthermore, Ive considered the activity on Mr Bs account once the funds were transferred 
to it. After the payment of £750 was made to Mr Bs account, he made three transfers out of 
the account on the same day. These three payments totalled £550 and were to three 
separate payees with differing references: such as girlfriend and trainers. Im not 
persuaded that this is consistent with a person intent on sending money onward for a friend 
for the purchase of a vehicle. I also question why Mr B wouldnt have sent onward the entire 
£755 hed received. 
Mr B has argued that his possession of the bank statements of the sending account is 
sufficient to prove his relationship with the third-party, but I dont agree. I cant be sure how 
Mr B has obtained these statements and the issue still remains as to why the sending 
account holder would have reported the matter as fraud had the payments been paid to him 
as a favour as Mr B has claimed.
Ive also considered the messages Mr B has provided from a social media page in the 
same name as the person who had sent the funds to him. There is no indication in these 
messages that Mr B and the individual were party to any agreement. And the fact that he 
was able to message the person contradicts Mr Bs testimony that he was blocked by them.
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im persuaded that Metro has met the standards 
set out by Cifas for loading a marker. Id like to make it clear that my findings arent 
intended as an accusation that Mr B was involved in the fraud alleged. Only that Metro has 
demonstrated sufficient evidence that it loaded the marker in line with the guidance set out 
by Cifas. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman