DRN-3695666
The complaint
Mr K complains about the lack of information provided to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard when he applied for a new credit card.
What happened
Mr K held a credit card with Barclaycard. He contacted Barclaycard to enquire about a new 
credit card (a rewards card) was advised that he would have to cancel his existing credit 
card first.
Mr K cancelled his existing credit card and applied for the new credit card. However, he was 
unable to provide the information required to verify his income and his application was 
closed.
Mr K complained to Barclaycard. In response, Barclaycard said it wouldnt expect the agent 
he was discussing the new card with to provide him with details about the application 
process. It also said it had advised Mr K during the application process that he may need to 
validate his income and had given him options for doing this.
Mr K remained unhappy and complained to this service. He wants to be put back in the 
position he was in before he had applied for the new card.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the agent couldnt have advised Mr K 
about income verification before he closed his existing account because this information was 
only available once the application for the new card had been made.
The investigator said that she understood that Mr K couldnt provided HMRC documents to 
show that he was self-employed, but said that he could have provided other evidence to 
prove his income, such as bank statements or pension statements. The investigator said that 
Barclaycard hadnt treated Mr K unfairly when it closed the application because it hadnt 
received any documents to verify Mr Ks income.
Mr K didnt agree. He said if hed been told about the income verification requirements 
before he cancelled his existing card, he wouldnt have cancelled his card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im unable to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The essence of Mr Ks complaint is that he wasnt advised by the agent he spoke to about 
the rewards card that he would be required to complete the income verification process in 
order to open a new account.
Mr K was advised by the agent that in order to change his existing card to a rewards card, 
he would need to close his existing account and apply for a new card. I cant see that 
Barclaycard made an error when it provided this advice to Mr K. 
During the application process for the rewards card, Mr K wouldve seen a message which 
stated that his gross annual income and his net monthly income may be validated as part of 
the application.
The reason why Barclaycard complete income validation is to make sure that any credit limit 
offered on the account is affordable. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclaycard to ask 
Mr K to provide information about his income.
I can see that Barclaycard asked Mr K to provide documentary evidence of his income. The 
options given to him were a HMRC self-assessment document or the last two months bank 
statements showing his income.
I understand Mr Ks frustration at being unable to provide the HMRC documents. However, it 
isnt clear why Mr K wasnt able to evidence his income in some other way by  for instance 
 reference to his bank statements. I cant see that Mr K provided any evidence to prove his 
income and in the circumstances, I dont think Barclaycard acted unreasonably by closing 
the application.
I appreciate that Mr K would like to have his previous account re-opened. However, Im 
unable to say that Barclaycard made an error when it closed the previous account on Mr Ks 
instruction The credit agreement relating to Mr Ks previous account no longer exists so it 
cant be re-opened. However, theres nothing to prevent Mr K from making an application for 
an account (subject to eligibility and income verification if required).
Taking everything into account Im unable to say that Barclaycard has made an error. I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman