DRN-3815501
The complaint
Mrs N complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about investments she 
made into two bonds in 2017. She says they were mis-sold, the promotional material was 
misleading and the funds were managed negligently. And when her investments matured, 
she requested her capital back, but nothing has been returned  so she is claiming a 
return of her money. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs N invested into the following investments with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc):
 25 March 2017 - £15,240  3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond
 25 May 2017  £20,000  3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond 
Sales of the bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business 
from B&G plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the 
bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the 
bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Ns investment in the bonds
Mrs N found out about the bond when her husband  who also made a complaint to Gallium 
about a similar investment  was researching on the internet for a better interest rate for her 
savings. After being contacted by a representative of BG Ltd, Mrs N made her applications 
on or around the dates highlighted above. Mrs N had savings predominantly held in cash-
based accounts and some investment experience, but said she was looking for an 
investment with no risk when she applied for the B&G Plc IFISAs.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender. Following action by the FCA, the lender went into administration in March 2020 - and 
B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs N has not had her 
invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Gallium say the bonds were taken out following an online application process on BG Ltds 
website. Mrs N has mentioned completing an online process but also recalls speaking to BG 
Ltd about her applications. We have been provided with systems records that indicate Mrs N 
completed an investor questionnaire and categorisation on 27 March 2017. I have seen 
screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the application 
journey that Mrs N underwent online. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mrs N 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
When Mrs N referred her complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held, but we have not been provided with recordings of any conversations Mrs N had with 
BG Ltd before or during the bond applications.
Galliums response to Mrs Ns complaint
In June 2020, Mrs N raised a complaint. Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ns complaint. It said 
Mrs N had been given sufficient information and risk warnings about the investment. It then 
made further submissions, once Mrs Ns complaint was referred to us. I have considered the 
submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium described as its position 
statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints about B&G 
Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ns complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs N as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for 
her - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the 
FCAs rules. 
In respect of the certification process, from the information gathered about Mrs 
Ns circumstances, the investigator found it likely that  she may have qualified as 
a different type of investor than what was recorded  that being a High Net Worth 
(HNW) investor.
But the investigator still found the assessment of appropriateness did not to meet 
the obligations required, so there was still reason to uphold the complaint. 
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs N wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs N to invest. For these reasons, it was fair to 
uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs N for the losses she has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs Ns complaint
The website and marketing material was not misleading - Mrs N was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings 
It noted that Mrs N satisfied the criteria to be classed as HNW investor.  It didnt 
comment on the fact that Mrs N had classed herself as an everyday investor. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs N made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with 
them, and did not choose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
In this case there is limited contemporaneous evidence of Mrs Ns applications. Neither 
Galliums response to the complaint nor the information provided to us by the 
administrators of BG Ltd have any detail of applications beyond what is recorded on the 
systems records, set out above, which only appears to refer to one application. Based on 
what is available, I think it more likely than not Mrs N did complete at least one online 
application process on BG Ltds website. That would be consistent with Galliums general 
explanation of how investments were made and what we have seen in practice in the 
large number of complaints we have seen about Gallium and these bonds. So I have 
considered the complaint on that basis.BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs N into certifying herself as belonging in a 
category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term used 
in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one anyone 
could fall into. This was not treating Mrs N fairly or acting in her best interests. Had BG 
Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs N, it is unlikely she would have certified herself 
as being a restricted investor . But as the investigator noted, Mrs N has provided 
information about her circumstances at the time she invested in the bonds. This 
information suggests she held sufficient assets to mean she qualified as a High Net 
Worth investor. So while I have concerns about the way the certification process was 
completed, it is seems possible, based on the information she has provided, Mrs N would 
have been able to proceed with her applications if BG Ltd had followed its obligations 
correctly in respect of the certification.    
But I still find the appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bonds were not an appropriate investment for Mrs N. BG Ltd was also required to take 
reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Mrs N had the requisite experience, knowledge or 
expertise to understand the risks of the bonds in line with COBS 4.12.11.  The 
appropriateness test carried out, did not meet the requirements of the rules. Had the process 
been consistent with what the rules required  had Mrs N been asked for appropriate 
information about her knowledge and experience  the only reasonable conclusion BG Ltd 
could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mrs N did not have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the bonds.
Mrs N had limited investment experience and was predominantly familiar with standard 
deposit savings and ISA accounts  I have seen no evidence to show she had anything 
other than a basic knowledge of investments. I dont think Mrs Ns level of investment 
experiences prior to investing can be considered meaningful experience, insofar as it would 
enable her to understand the risks involved. So, it would not be sufficient to conclude these 
bonds were appropriate for her on that basis. 
In the circumstances Mrs N would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bonds to Mrs N. 
Given the evidence available, its clear that Mrs N was looking for an account with no risk 
from which to earn interest. 
For these reasons my decision is that Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. I am also 
satisfied Mrs N would either not have proceeded to make the investments or would not 
have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs N for her 
losses.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
N as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not made the 
investments.
I take the view that Mrs N would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs N's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs N fairly, Gallium must:Compare the performance of each of Mrs N's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs N £350 for the distress and inconvenience of losing all the capital 
invested in bonds she thought were safe.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G 3 Year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond 
£15,240Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
B&G 3 Year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond 
£20,000Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investments at the end date.
If at the end date the investments are illiquid (meaning they could not be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs N agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investments, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs N that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investments in future.
Fair value
This is what the investments would have been worth at the end date had they produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs N wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs N's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs N would have invested 
only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs N in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman