DRN-1419487
 
The complaint
This complaint is about the service Mr and Mrs I received from a representative of 
Countrywide Principle Services Limited. 
What happened
In December 2016, Mr and Mrs I engaged with Countrywides broker, as they were looking 
to buy their first home. They were unsure about whether theyd be able to do so together, 
due to some concerns about Mr Is credit record. The broker told them hed found a lender 
who would lend to them jointly, provided an agreement in principle, and they looked for a 
house to buy. 
Mr and Mrs I found a property, but the purchase fell through. They spent much of 2017 and 
2018 looking for somewhere else to buy, but also contacting the broker for updates. But their 
emails were mostly ignored or the subject of automatic responses. They complained and in 
May 2019, Countrywide issued a final response rejecting their complaint. 
Our investigator said Countrywide should pay Mr and Mrs I £300 compensation for failing to 
keep in touch with them.  Countrywide thinks this is excessive and has asked that the 
complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that this complaint should be resolved by Countrywide paying Mr and Mrs I the 
compensation he has recommended.
I take Countrywides points about Mr and Mrs I having not suffered a financial loss, and 
having the option of going to another broker when its own representative didnt respond to 
them. But I think Countrywide misses a point here, which is that Mr and Mrs I were 
inexperienced in house-buying and unsure about how to proceed. Theyve explained why 
they didnt look elsewhere (they were concerned about the possible effect of having another 
search placed on their credit files) and I find that plausible.
It should also be kept in mind that the adverse experience Mr and Mrs I received from 
Countrywides broker could just as likely as acted as an inhibitor to them trying again 
elsewhere. The phrase once bitten, twice shy comes to mind. But aside from that, 
Countrywides broker, in my view, showed Mr and Mrs I a basic lack of courtesy, and that 
alone is sufficient to warrant paying them the compensation.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order 
Countrywide Principal Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs I £300 compensation for their 
time, trouble and upset. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman