DRN-3517014
The complaint
Mr B complained that Buffa Loans Ltd irresponsibly provided an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
Buffa provided a loan to Mr B as follows - I've set out the main details below:
Date 
TakenLoan 
AmountInstalments Monthly Repayment Loan status
20/8/2021 £450 4 £160.90 Paid
Mr B complained that Buffa failed to check affordability sufficiently before lending to him and 
he said repaying the loan was problematic and resulted in him having to borrow more 
money.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Buffa told us about this loan. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances 
at the time and his history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Buffa to ask Mr B for the amount of information needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable. And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the 
information Mr B provided or the information Buffa shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr B had told Buffa. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint, so it has come to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr B that I've thought carefully about everything before coming to my 
decision and taken into account all the points mentioned in support of this complaint and in 
response to our adjudicators view. Ive reviewed the complaint independently and having 
done so, I've come to the same view as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why I say this. 
Buffa provided Mr B with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that Buffa was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. Thats not 
the same thing as saying that it needed to do a full financial review or that it had to check 
bank statements before agreeing to lend. There isnt any set list of checks a lender has to 
do  it depends on the particular circumstances.
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough for a first loan 
(and throughout the early stages of a lending relationship) in terms of how much information 
the lender should gather and what it needs to do to verify that information. But we might 
think a lender needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Buffa says it agreed to Mr Bs application after carrying out checks to assess affordability 
and creditworthiness. It told us it relied on information Mr B provided about his monthly 
income (which it took steps to verify) and his expenditure as well as information obtained 
from a credit reference agency  which it has sent me. 
Buffa recorded Mr Bs pay as £3,100 per month and his declared monthly outgoings totalled 
a maximum of £950. Buffa boosted the amount it thought Mr B was likely to spend each 
month to reflect typical expenditure for someone in his circumstances. It did its own credit 
checks to see for itself what Mr Bs existing credit commitments were and gain an 
understanding of his credit history. Taking all this information into account, Buffa worked out 
that Mr B should have around £403 surplus cash each month.  
So I think its fair to say that the loan monthly repayments of £160.90 looked like they should 
have been comfortably affordable for Mr B. 
I've taken into account that Mr B feels Buffa should have seen that he had multiple other 
loans already and that it should have looked at his bank statements to obtain a more 
accurate picture of his actual financial situation. 
But bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on 
their record and sometimes even an impaired credit history, there wasnt anything that Id 
expect Buffa to have been unduly concerned about at this stage. Looking at the credit 
checks that Buffa acquired, I dont think they revealed enough concerning information for me 
to be able to say it should have put off a responsible lender from providing this relatively 
small loan to Mr B. I say this because, although it was evident that he had a record of using 
credit and other outstanding loans, there werent any particular warning signs to show that 
he was currently in serious financial difficulty or already having problems managing debt. 
There were no defaults on his credit record and no indicators of insolvency, bankruptcy or 
any court judgements shown in his credit history. Mr B had available credit on a card 
account that he hadnt used for many months. He was comfortably within his overdraft 
limits and his other loans were all up to date with payments and the accounts seemed to be 
well managed overall. 
So I dont think Buffa had any strong enough reason to think that Mr Bs use of credit was 
out of control  and the extent of his debt didnt appear excessive for someone in his 
circumstances earning the amount of income Mr B did. I havent seen enough in the information that Buffa gathered about Mr B to make me think it 
should have found out more before lending to him or realised that Mr B was going to find it 
difficult to afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way.
Im sorry that Mr B had a problem with spending and debt and that making the loan 
repayments hed signed up to was difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Bs actual 
circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Buffa obtained. But its reasonable to expect that Buffa was entitled to 
decide Mr Bs lending application based on the information it should reasonably have had 
available at the time. 
To sum up, I dont think proportionate checks for this loan wouldve required Buffa to ask 
Mr B to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources (such as his bank 
statements) to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable for Buffa to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into his circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, 
to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able sustainably to repay the loan. I think the information Buffa 
had gathered supported the lending decision it made. 
So I cant fairly say that Buffa shouldnt have provided this loan  and thats why Im not 
upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Ive taken into account what Mr B said about other complaints which he felt set a precedent 
for upholding this complaint. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits  Ive looked 
at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases 
doesnt change my conclusion here for the reasons I have explained.
I appreciate that what Ive said will disappoint Mr B but I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr B is still struggling with debt and would like to talk to someone about his situation 
or get help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free 
advice and assistance on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us 
a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman