DRN-2456603
The complaint
Mr C complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited t/a Skoda Financial Services 
mis-sold him a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr C says when he entered into a hire purchase agreement in December 2019, he wasnt 
told by the dealership the total amount payable would be recorded on his credit file. Mr C 
says the total amount of credit ought to be recorded instead. Mr C told us his mortgage 
application got declined due to an undisclosed debt  as it appeared that he owed more than 
the actual credit amount under this agreement. So, Mr C says he feels he was mis-sold the 
agreement.
Skoda responded to Mr Cs concerns. They said they are obliged to report true and factual 
information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) and that the outstanding balance is 
reflected correctly on his credit file.
Unhappy with Skodas response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things for Mr C. In summary, she said she didnt think Skoda had done anything 
wrong in the way they were reporting what Mr C owed under the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr C disagreed. He remained of the opinion that Skoda shouldve made clear that the total 
amount payable would show on his credit file. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hire purchase agreements, like the one given to Mr C, are regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA). Section 56 of the CCA says that a finance provider is responsible for any 
antecedent negotiations carried out by the credit broker. In Mr Cs case, the dealership acted 
as Skodas agent with his hire purchase agreement for the car. And Skoda are responsible 
for anything the dealership said, did, didnt say or didnt do about the contract, before Mr C 
entered into it.
Mr C says he wasnt told by the dealership that the total amount payable would show on his 
credit file, rather than the total amount of credit. Mr C says the paperwork he was provided 
with, including the hire purchase agreement, also didnt make this clear. 
Skoda havent provided us with details of what was discussed between the dealership and 
Mr C at the time. However, they have provided us with some of the paperwork that would 
have been supplied to Mr C. Ive had a look at the agreements terms and conditions, and I 
can see they say, We will also add to your record with the CRAs details of your agreement 
with us and the repayments you make under it. 
When considering Mr Cs complaint, Ive thought about the regulatory guidelines set out in 
CONC 4.2.5. This rule requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate 
explanations. This includes explanations of the features of the contract such as how much 
Mr C would have to pay periodically and in total under the agreement, amongst other things. 
And Im satisfied, based on the information available to me, that Mr C was provided with this 
information. 
Skoda is under an obligation to let a customer know they are going to report information to 
CRAs. And I can see this was confirmed to Mr C in the agreements terms and conditions. 
Skoda also have a duty to report accurate information about the credit Mr C has taken out 
and also his repayment history. I havent seen anything in the rules or regulations that 
explain the prescribed format a business is going to record information on a customers 
credit file, just that they are going to report information. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr C and I can understand his frustration, 
especially at finding out his mortgage application got declined. Having thought about 
everything, Im not persuaded Skoda did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman