DRN-3963935
The complaint
Miss R and Miss W have complained about QIC Europe Ltd. They arent happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss R and Miss W made a claim under their home insurance policy after a storm caused a 
significant amount of damage to their property. A shed was blown into their oil heating tank 
causing an oil leak. The tank and the consequential damage and contamination required 
repair. QIC sent an engineer to look at the damage caused, and the claim was cash settled.
However, when Miss R and Miss Ws chosen repairer looked to repair the damage it 
transpired that the level of damage caused by the leak had been underestimated and so the 
cost to make good the damage was higher than they first believed. But when Miss R and 
Miss W asked QIC about this it said it had cash settled the claim and it had paid a sufficient 
amount to cover the claim. And it wasnt obliged to revisit this now as Miss R and Miss W 
had chosen to cash settle the claim which was based on what it would cost QIC to pay its 
contractor. As Miss R and Miss W remained unhappy they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss R and Miss W and eventually upheld their 
complaint. He pointed out some ambiguities in their engineers report and suggested QIC 
appoint an independent expert to inspect the damage and comment on the points raised by 
both sides or reconsider the cash settlement following the points raised by Miss R and Miss 
Ws repairer. 
As QIC didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to QIC, but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I dont think it was unreasonable for QIC to rely on its expert in deciding on an appropriate 
cash settlement figure to be paid to Miss R and Miss W, in line with what it wouldve paid its 
own contractor. However, Miss R and Miss Ws chosen repairer has clearly identified more 
work was required as the contamination was more wide reaching than first thought. 
I am not an expert in the field and so I have to rely on the information provided. I know QIC 
dont feel that Miss R and Miss Ws repairers report on what they found and why more work 
needed to be done is thorough enough, but I think it has raised fair questions. They have 
raised legitimate questions around the incorrect data that was initially used by QICs expert 
and identified other possible contamination areas. Indeed, QIC has acknowledged that there 
were errors within its experts report, so it seems sensible that this is revisited. And an 
independent opinion would be beneficial to move the position forward and I would expect 
both sides to be bound by its findings. So, if they decide the cash settlement already paid 
was fair and covered all the required work then I wouldnt expect anything further to happen. 
And if they were of a different view then I would expect QIC to pay any additional award 
required.
Given this, I think it would be fair for QIC to choose three possible independent experts and 
Miss R and Miss W can pick one to undertake the independent review which should avoid 
further dispute. Alternatively, QIC can simply reconsider the cash settlement payment it has 
already made and pay for the additional work Miss R and Miss Ws contractor has identified. 
I feel either of these options would be a fair and reasonable way to move the claim and 
complaint forward and allow a full consideration of all the damage sustained including the 
level of contamination and possible additional hotspots identified.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd 
to instruct and pay for an independent expert as outlined above. And to pay any further costs 
identified that flow from the original claim or to reconsider the cash settlement payment it has 
already made paying for any additional work Miss R and Miss Ws contractor has identified.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Miss 
W to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman