DRN-2977726
The complaint
Mr W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W applied for a credit card from Vanquis in February 2015, and this was agreed with a 
limit of £1000. In April 2016, Vanquis offered to increase the limit to £1750, and this was also 
agreed.
Date Limit
February 2015 £1000
April 2016 £1750
In August 2019, the debt was passed to a debt collection agency to collect payments. And it 
was then sold to another DCA in September 2020.
Mr W, represented by a claims management company, complains that Vanquis couldnt 
have completed the necessary checks. He couldnt afford to make the payments and was 
paying £700 on loans and credit cards. Vanquis shouldve completed an income and 
expenditure analysis, and if they had, they wouldnt have lent the money.
Vanquis said Mr W had passed their checks. At the time of his application, he said he was 
earning £28000 per annum, and had debts of £15100. But there were no county court 
judgements (CCJs) or defaults showing on his records. The initial limit was only a modest 
£1000. Vanquis offered an increase to £1750 in April 2016, and by then Mr Ws debts had 
decreased to £7345. There werent any defaults or CCJs. Monthly payments to the Vanquis 
card had been made and account conduct had been OK. So, they offered to increase the 
limit. Mr W couldve opted out of the increase but didnt. Mr W should contact the DCA to 
agree a repayment programme.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Out investigator said that on balance, Vanquis had acted 
responsibly. He could see that Vanquis might have looked at Mr Ws bank statements.  But  
he couldnt look at them for the period just before the first issue of the card, as they werent 
available. Looking at those for the period up to the time of the increase, they didnt show any 
signs of real financial problems, although there were payments to a payday lender showing. 
But  he concluded that Vanquis didnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in offering the 
increased limit.
Mr W asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Vanquis 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so 
where the amounts involved are modest, then the checks can be less than if larger amounts 
of money are being lent. And  in this case, I consider the limits of £1000 and £1750 were 
modest.
Looking at the issue of the card in February 2015, Mr W told Vanquis that he earnt £27000 a 
year, and I can see that he said household income was £51000 a year  so that was OK for 
a limit of £1000. Vanquis could see from their searches that he had debts of £15100  this 
was quite a lot, but still only just over half of Mr Ws income. And Vanquis could also see that 
he was making the necessary payment to other debts, and there werent any default or 
CCJs. So  I think that the checks done by Vanquis were OK.
Looking at the increase to £1750 in April 2016. By this time, Vanquis could see that Mr Ws 
debts had decreased to £7345  so it looked like things were improving. There was one new 
loan taken out in the previous three months  but that doesnt mean there were problems. 
And  Mr W had maintained his account with Vanquis well. He had miss one payment and 
gone over the limit once since the card was issued. And - he told Vanquis that he missed the 
payment because he didnt get the statement for that month. Hed otherwise made all the 
payments due and had paid 120% of the minimum payments since the card was issued  so 
he was paying more than needed. On the other hand, I can see that Mr W had used that 
card five times to withdraw cash of £220  so that might suggest there were some problems. 
Ive looked at Mr Ws credit file. This shows there were four other lenders between 2015 to 
April 2016. They were all paid up to date. So, things did look OK to Vanquis. We can only 
expect them to make a decision based on the information they had at the time  and from 
what Ive seen, Vanquis decision to offer an increase in the limit was OK. And - they didnt 
need to ask Mr W more questions or see his bank statements, based on the information they 
had before them.
I can see that later on  things did get worse for Mr W. He used his new limit from Vanquis 
quickly and went over it by June 2016. And, by September 2016, his debts increased a lot - 
to £11063. And he missed a lot of payments to Vanquis and went over his new limit. But  that was later, and I dont think Vanquis couldnt be expected to anticipate problems that Mr 
W had later.
So  and I accept that this will be disappointing for Mr W, I dont think that Vanquis acted 
unreasonably, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman