DRN-2949749
The complaint
Mr D complains that a van he has been financing through an agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCI) has not been of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint RCI, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. And that 
legislation says that we should consider whether a van has been durable when deciding if 
its been of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Mr D. This was a brand-
new van so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
I think this van has experienced more problems than a reasonable person would consider 
acceptable on a brand-new vehicle. Its not been durable, and I therefore dont think its been 
of satisfactory quality. 
Since Mr D took receipt of the van I can see a soot sensor was replaced in June 2020 only 
about three weeks after hed taken receipt of the vehicle and the gearbox needed replacing 
in April 2021. At that point Mr D had only completed 15,000 miles in the van. I think a 
reasonable person would expect a new van to complete a significantly higher mileage before 
needing a replacement gearbox. I dont think theyd think the van had proven durable and 
neither do I. I think the van hasnt been durable and Mr D should now be allowed to reject it.
The van has also been referred back to the dealership on at least eight occasions most 
occasions have involved assessment of the reason for an anti-pollution light. I understand 
the dealership suggest this is caused by driving style and the Diesel Particulate Filter not 
being allowed to regenerate. I dont think I need to comment on that to reach a decision on 
this matter. 
But even if Im wrong about the vans durability being a reason for rejection I think the van 
should also be rejected because RCI have used the one opportunity the law allows for them 
to repair a fault present at the point of supply.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault is identified within the first six months it is to be 
assumed it was present, or developing, when the vehicle was supplied to the consumer. 
Mr D reported gearbox crunching to the dealership in November 2020. They looked at the 
van on 18 November 2020, shortly before its six-month anniversary, but they couldnt identify 
a fault. At that point Mr D had also complained that the anti-pollution light had illuminated. In 
April 2021 the gearbox failed, and the dealership explained that was the cause of the 
reoccurrence of the anti-pollution light. I think its likely that this was a reoccurrence of the 
same fault Mr D had initially reported in November 2020, that had the same symptoms, and 
that it appears the dealership were unable to diagnose and rectify.
In those circumstances, as a repair attempt was unsuccessful the consumer would be 
entitled to reject the van.
Putting things right
RCI should therefore allow Mr D to reject the van and they should end his finance agreement 
with them.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr D has paid and they should add 8% interest to that 
refund as Mr D has been deprived of the money.
I can see that Mr D was always kept mobile when his van was being repaired but not always 
in the same type of vehicle. Hes been inconvenienced by that and also by the need to 
regularly take the van back for repairs. In the circumstances I think RCI should pay Mr D 
£200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. But Im not 
asking them to refund any of the finance instalments Mr D paid, in respect of lack of use. I 
say that because it appears that Mr D has been able to cover more than average mileage in 
the van despite his obvious difficulties with it and also because RCI have been able to keep 
him mobile in courtesy vehicles.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services 
Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the van at no cost to Mr D;
refund any deposit that Mr D has paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman