DRN-2318653
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster Bank) gave her poor service.
What happened
Mrs K lived in Germany and sold her house in 2017. The money from the sale went into her 
Ulster Bank current account. She tried to call Ulster Bank on several occasions to make a 
transfer to a savings account to earn interest but couldnt get through. She also visited a 
branch of Ulster Bank to discuss savings but wasnt advised to put the money into a savings 
account.
Mrs K complains that she should have been advised by Ulster Bank to switch her money into 
a savings account. She tried to call them, but they wouldnt discuss her savings with her. 
When she visited a branch (when home for Christmas), in December 2018, she tried to 
make an appointment to talk about savings, but Ulster Bank couldnt do this. 
Ulster Bank replied to Mrs K in February 2020. They couldnt say why an appointment 
couldnt be arranged in the branch, but a transfer to her savings account could have been 
made using online or telephone banking. An appointment was not needed. They apologised 
to Mrs K and paid compensation of £50.
Mrs K brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said that when she visited the 
branch during the Christmas period, it would likely that staff availability was low. It was 
unfortunate that Mrs K couldnt speak to someone on the phone about savings, but Ulster 
Banks website showed information about savings, with access to help and support. She 
said that Mrs K had been using online banking since at least December 2018. She felt that 
Ulster Banks apology and payment of compensation of £50 was reasonable.
Mrs K didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sympathise with Mrs Ks frustrations. I can see that there were two large credits into 
her current account in November 2017 and August 2019, resulting in high credit balances. 
She believes that her bank should have helped her more to look after her savings.  Also, I 
can appreciate that trying to deal with things from Germany would have been difficult. But 
Mrs K already had a savings account. I can see that interest was being paid on it, so Mrs K 
would have been able to see that. Transfers to her savings account could have been made 
using either online banking or by telephone. A visit to a branch wasnt needed. 
Mrs K had been using online banking since at least December 2018. I realise that she says 
she wasnt aware that transfers could be made using online banking and I can see that she 
didnt do this until September 2019. But online banking would have provided information on 
savings rates. It also had a help section and a webchat facility. That means that while Mrs 
K may not have been aware she could do this  Ulster Bank had made the information she 
needed available to her in a way she could access. So impartially, its difficult for me to say 
that they should have done any more here.
Ulster Bank cannot provide records of any calls that Mrs K made to them or explain why an 
appointment wasnt made at the branch. Im sure that in an ideal world, Ulster Bank would 
have done things better. But they were under no obligation to suggest she transfer money to 
a savings account. But it would have been good customer service if they had helped Mrs K 
more. 
All that said, I dont think I can say that Ulster Bank have done anything wrong here. They 
have paid Mrs K compensation of £50 which I think is fair in the circumstances. So, I wont 
be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman