DRN-3260376
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way in which Ulster Bank Limited (UBL) dealt with his 
Subject Access Request (SAR).
The complaint has been brought on Mr Ms behalf by his father, but for clarity, I will refer to 
Mr M throughout.
What happened
During the course of a complaint about mortgage mis-sale, Mr M made a SAR to the bank to 
obtain his personal data. Mr M thought UBL hadnt sent everything and so he raised his 
concerns with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). After doing so, Mr M was sent 
further information by UBL.
Mr M complained that UBL had withheld information and he was also unhappy that the bank 
didnt reply to his emails. UBL acknowledged its errors and paid compensation of £500 for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Dissatisfied with UBLs response to his complaint, Mr M contacted the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. After doing so, she was 
satisfied that, although UBL had provided Mr M with poor service, the £500 compensation it 
had paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UBL has acknowledged it made a mistake when it failed to send Mr M all the information it 
should have when he made his SAR. Because the bank has accepted its error, all I need to 
decide is what compensation is fair and reasonable for this.
The bank paid Mr M £500 compensation for trouble and upset. I think in all the 
circumstances, this is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the banks service failings. From 
the correspondence between the parties, I can understand why UBL thought it had 
responded appropriately to the SAR, but its approach was incorrect, and this caused Mr M 
some distress and inconvenience. 
Ultimately the banks error has not affected the outcome of the mis-sale complaint, because 
(in a separate decision) I have explained to Mr M why the Financial Ombudsman Service 
wont be looking at that complaint again. So in all the circumstances, I think the £500 
compensation for the service failings on the SAR is fair and reasonable compensation. This 
means I wont be ordering UBL to pay anything more or take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £500 paid by Ulster Bank Limited is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to 
Mr M to decide if he wants to accept it in full and final settlement of his complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman