DRN-3019675
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed their account as it required a 
United Kingdom (UK) address to be held on its records.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a result of the UK leaving the European Union (EU), Barclays  like all banks, couldnt 
continue offering banking facilities for customers with an address in the European Economic 
Area (EEA). Barclays contacted all customers impacted by this change to explain that their 
accounts would be closed unless they could provide a UK address. 
While Mr G and Mrs D have lived in the UK for many years, Barclays contacted them as their 
account with it still held an EEA address. I find it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
contact Mr G and Mrs D in relation to this as it was in line with the guidance issued when the 
UK left the EU.
Barclays offered several alternative ways for Mr G and Mrs D to update their address. And 
they chose to return a form by post because they didnt want to visit a branch during the on-
going pandemic. As this was an option provided by Barclays, I find it was reasonable for    
Mr G and Mrs D to update their address in this format. And Im satisfied that completing and 
returning the form should have been sufficient for their address to be updated. I say this 
because there is no dispute that Barclays received the completed form and its what 
Barclays asked Mr G and Mrs D to do.
But despite Mr G and Mrs D returning the form to update their address, Barclays contacted 
them again as it wanted to verify their identities (ID). It said this was because                      
Mr G and Mrs D were amending their address from an overseas address. But as mentioned 
above, Mr G and Mrs D sent the form to update their address at Barclays request. So, Im 
not persuaded that Barclays should have been surprised or indeed had any concerns about 
them wanting to update their address. It follows that Im satisfied Barclays should have 
updated Mr G and Mrs Ds address at this time. As it didnt do so, Im satisfied Barclays 
caused them distress and inconvenience.
Mr G and Mrs D attempted to comply with Barclays request. One option offered was via 
telephone banking and Mr G and Mrs D opted for this method. But Barclays then went on to 
ask them to attend a branch, despite Mr G and Mrs D following all its instructions. When    
Mr G objected, ultimately, Barclays agreed it would accept telephone instructions to update 
the address. 
However, the banks representative didnt establish that the account was a joint account and 
it also needed to speak with Mrs D. Given Barclays are the expert in this situation, I would 
have expected the representative to ask for the phone to be passed to Mrs D so her 
instructions could be taken to update her address. As this didnt happen, Im satisfied 
Barclays caused further distress and inconvenience. I say this because, as a result of both 
addresses not being updated, the account was closed. And this led to further problems as 
Mr G and Mrs D couldnt access the balance in their account for some consideration time. 
While I appreciate that Barclays offered various ways for Mr G and Mrs D to reclaim their 
account balance, given I think Mr G and Mrs D did enough to enable their address to be 
updated in the first place, Im satisfied these subsequent problems could have been avoided.
I understand that this matter was now been resolved as the parties have been in touch about 
the balance being released following our investigators involvement. But Im satisfied               
Mr G and Mrs D have suffered distress and inconvenience because of Barclays actions. So, 
like the investigator, Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. And Ive gone on to 
consider what fair compensation should be.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Barclays should pay Mr G and Mrs D £300 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclays agreed to 
offer this amount. But Mr G and Mrs D didnt. Mr G initially said that he wanted a letter of 
apology from the Barclays Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He also said £300 was insufficient 
and he wanted the highest amount possible to be awarded and paid to a charity. Hes also 
mentioned being unable to pay bills as his account was closed.    
Having thought about this carefully, Im not going to ask Barclays to provide a written 
apology from its CEO. As the investigator has explained, its not general practice for a CEO 
to become involved in individual complaints and I see no reason to make an exception here. 
But I did ask the investigator to contact both parties to explain that - in addition to the 
investigators recommendation, I thought it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay               
Mr G and Mrs D 8% interest on the balance in their account from the date of closure to the 
date the funds were released to them. I also thought Barclays should cover any financial loss 
Mr G and Mrs D had suffered as a result of not being able to pay bills from their account 
after it was closed.
Barclays responded to say that it was willing to offer 8% interest on the account balance 
from 5 January 2021 to 6 October 2021. It said that it had made numerous attempts to 
contact Mr G and Mrs D about reclaiming the account balance but had been unable to reach 
them. It also pointed out that the account was funded from another account not held with it. 
So, it thought Mr G and Mrs D would have had access to funds to pay any bills due. But it 
did agree to review any financial loss incurred subject to evidence Mr G and Mrs D provides 
to it to demonstrate a financial loss due to unpaid bills.
Mr G responded to say he made numerous calls and had had to seek the help of 
professionals to get his money back. But he didnt provide any documentary evidence of a 
financial loss.          
So, Ive thought further about all of the above. And overall, I consider £300 compensation 
plus 8% interest on the account balance from the date the account was closed to the date 
the funds were released is fair. Ive considered what Barclays said about the time period for 
the 8% to be applied. But, as mentioned above, Im satisfied that Barclays should have 
accepted the form Mr G and Mrs D completed to change their address and had it done so 
the inconvenience and delays that occurred wouldnt have happened. But, as a result,                 Mr G and Mrs D have been deprived of their account balance. If Mr G and Mrs D want the 
funds paid to a charity, it is for them to facilitate this. I can only ask Barclays to pay the 
redress directly to them. 
As Mr G and Mrs D havent provided any evidence of financial loss, I make no award. But if 
they have any evidence of a financial loss, they should provide it Barclays for its further 
consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay  
Mr G and Mrs D:
£300 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
8% interest on the account balance from the date the account was closed to the date 
the funds were released.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman