DRN-3869668
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice Lowes Financial Management Limited (Lowes) gave to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this might have 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr K was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme, known as the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS).
In March 2016, Mr Ks former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-
benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes, 
paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation 
levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits for deferred 
pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ks former employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed 
and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
Mr K was concerned about what the recent announcement would mean for the security of 
his pension; so he approached Lowes for advice.
The BSPS provided Mr K with an updated summary of the transfer value of his scheme 
benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £501,619. 
Lowes completed a fact-find with Mr K recording details of his circumstances and objectives. 
In brief it noted that Mr K was 46 years old, married to Mrs K with two non-dependent 
children. Both Mr and Mrs K were working. He didnt have any concrete plans for retirement 
and didn't know at what age he might retire. He believed he would need an income of 
£14,000 a year in retirement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
After obtaining a transfer value analysis report Lowes gave Mr K a suitability report setting 
out its analysis and recommendations. It recommended Mr K should transfer his DB pension 
to a named personal pension. Amongst other things, Lowes said that transferring to a 
personal pension would:
Prevent Mr Ks DB pension from moving into the PPF. 
Allow him to leave any residual pension funds to his family on his death.
Meet his income needs of £14,000 a year in retirement.
Mr K accepted Lowes recommendation and transferred his DB scheme funds to the named 
personal pension.
Following media reports Mr K became concerned that the advice to transfer out of the DB 
scheme might not have been suitable for him. He complained to Lowes via the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Lowes didnt uphold his complaint. In short it said its advice was 
suitable as it enabled Mr K to meet his objectives.
Mr K asked us to consider his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into it. In brief he 
felt that Lowes didnt do enough to address Mr Ks concerns about his pension moving to 
the PPF. The Investigator felt Mr K was likely to be worse off by transferring and he didnt 
think there would be any other reasons that would mean a transfer was in Mr Ks best 
interests. So the Investigator said Lowes should establish if Mr K had suffered a financial 
loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if so pay him compensation. The Investigator 
also recommended Lowes pay Mr K £300 to address his distress and inconvenience arising 
from learning he might have compromised his security in retirement by transferring.
Lowes didnt initially accept our Investigators assessment of the complaint. So, as it couldn't 
be resolved informally it was referred for an Ombudsmans determination. 
While the complaint was awaiting an Ombudsmans review Lowes contacted us. It said that 
since our Investigator sent his complaint assessment it had reviewed some of its other BSPS 
cases and concluded that the regulator would deem those non-compliant or unsuitable. It 
said it had applied the same standards when giving Mr K advice. It said it was highly likely 
his case would also be deemed non-compliant and unsuitable. So, in the interest of 
fairness it was prepared to do the appropriate calculation to establish if Mr K had suffered a 
loss.
We replied and advised Lowes to contact Mr K directly in order to obtain the required 
information to make the calculation.
The matter has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Lowes should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate it was 
in Mr Ks best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Reasons for my decision 
In Lowes recent correspondence with the Financial Ombudsman Service it has recognised 
that it was highly likely that the regulator would find its advice non-compliant and so 
unsuitable for Mr K. I agree with its analysis. So, it appears the parties to the complaint are 
agreed that Lowes advice wasnt suitable for Mr K. In other words a transfer wasnt in his 
best interests. In those circumstances I dont intend to do an in-depth analysis of all the 
relevant considerations when Lowes gave its advice. Save to say that:
I think Lowes should have done more to challenge Mr Ks concerns about his 
pension potentially moving to the PPF. At the time all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established so he could have moved his pension to another DB 
scheme. But I understand he was also concerned that the BSPS2 might also move to 
the PPF at some point in the future. But even if that had happened the PPF would 
still provide Mr K with a guaranteed income, the possibility of early retirement and the 
option of accessing tax free cash. 
Further Lowes transfer analysis showed that the PPF would pay Mr K a full yearly 
pension at age 65 of £24,598, or a reduced pension of £19,448 together with a tax 
free cash lump sum of £139,492. So, the income the PPF guaranteed for Mr K was 
comfortably above the £14,000 a year he said hed need in retirement. That income 
was index linked and was guaranteed for life. It follows that I dont think any concerns 
he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest. I think Lowes 
should have made this apparent to him.
Lowes also said transferring would allow Mr K to leave any residual pension funds to 
his family on his death. But Lowess priority should have been to advise Mr K about 
what was best for his retirement, not what was the best vehicle to leave a legacy on 
his death. And the spouses pension from the DB scheme would pay could have 
been valuable to his wife in the event of his death. That didnt rely on how much was 
left in Mr Ks fund or investment performance, whereas any death benefits from his 
personal pension did. And there may not have been a large sum left in the personal 
pension if Mr K lived a long life, he took large sums from it in early retirement, or if his 
investments suffered a prolonged period of poor performance. In any event, Lowes 
should not have encouraged Mr K to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement. 
A personal pension was unlikely to meet the growth rates required to match the DB 
scheme income, whether that was from the BSPS2 or the PPF. So Mr K would most 
likely be worse off in retirement by transferring. 
Overall I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Ks best interest to give up his DB 
scheme guarantees. 
I also think that Mr K learning he might have put his security in retirement at risk 
unnecessarily would have been a source of distress and inconvenience for him. To address 
that I think its fair that Lowes pays him £300 compensation.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lowes to put Mr K, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would most likely 
have remained in the DB scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if Lowes had given suitable 
advice. 
I recognise that Lowes has already begun the process to enable it to establish if Mr K has 
suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I require 
Lowes to undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out 
in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Lowes should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr K and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Lowes based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr K has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in 
the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ks 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lowes should:
calculate and offer Mr K redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr K before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr K receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr K accepts Lowes offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr K for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ks end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr K as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Lowes may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ks likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. I also think Lowes should pay Mr K £300 to address the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of its unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lowes Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mr K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Lowes Financial Management Limited pays Mr K the balance.
If Mr K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lowes Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr K can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman