DRN-2862714
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him incorrect information about whether 
accepting a repayment plan to clear the arrears on his overdraft would be reported to the 
credit reference agencies. 
What happened
Mr H has a current account with Lloyds. During 2019 and 2020, Mr H exceed the agreed 
overdraft balance on the current account on several occasions so that the current account 
was in a state of arrears. This caused Lloyds to pursue Mr H to clear the overdraft arrears, 
which in turn led to several arrears repayment plans being agreed by Mr H and Lloyds on 
the account.
Mr H was under the impression that these repayment plans wouldnt be reported to the credit 
reference agencies. However, he later discovered that this wasnt the case. Mr H wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Hs complaint. But they felt that it had been explained to Mr H, both 
verbally and in writing, that the repayment plans would be reported by them to the credit 
reference agencies, and so they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. While they noted that Lloyds hadnt been able 
to provide copies of the letters addressed to Mr H, or recordings of the telephone calls with 
Mr H, they felt that the information that Lloyds had been able to provide, including letter 
templates and agent notes from the telephone calls, meant that it was more likely than not 
that Lloyds had explained to Mr H that the repayment plans would be reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has stated that it was explained to him by the Lloyds agents to whom he spoke when 
he agreed the repayment plans that the plans wouldnt be reported by Lloyds to the credit 
reference agencies. However, Lloyds dispute this, and state that it was explained to Mr H, 
both verbally and in writing, that the repayment plans would be recorded on his credit file.
In instances such as this, where the testimonies of both parties differ, I have to determine 
what I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, given the information and evidence 
available to me.
While Lloyds havent been able to provide recordings of the telephone calls where Mr H 
arranged the repayment plans, they have been able to provide copies of the account notes, 
which include the typed notes left by the Lloyds agents when they spoke with Mr H. 
Mr H entered into several repayment plans, and there are agent notes for each call where a 
plan was agreed. And these notes are consistent in that they state that Mr H was informed 
that the repayment plans would be reported to the credit reference agencies.
Its also evident that some of these notes also refer to Mr H asking whether, if he applied for 
a permanent increase in his overdraft limit, that application would be reported to the credit 
reference agencies   to which Mr H was told by Lloyds that it would not. It therefore seems 
plausible that this might have been the question which Mr H asked to which he remembered 
being informed that there would be no impact on his credit file. 
Additionally, while Lloyds havent retained copies of the letters sent to Mr H which confirmed 
the agreed repayment plans, they have been able to send a copy of the letter template that 
is used to generate customer specific letters of that type. And this template does include the 
information that the repayment plan would be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Lloyds have also been able to confirm that these letters were sent to the address they held 
on file for Mr H and to which other correspondence sent by them had been received by Mr H.
Furthermore, it also must be noted that Lloyds have a responsibility to make accurate 
reports to the credit reference agencies. This means that Lloyds have an obligation to report 
instances where Mr H exceeded the agreed overdraft limit on his current account, and also 
times where a repayment arrangement had been agreed between Mr H and themselves and 
was in place on the account.
Given that Lloyds have an obligation to report the repayment plans to the credit reference 
agencies, I would expect them to have done so. And Im satisfied that Lloyds reporting the 
payment plans to the credit reference agencies doesnt constitute an unfair outcome.
But Mr Hs complaint here is that Lloyds didnt tell him that the repayment plans would be 
reported to credit reference agencies. However, given that both the telephone call notes and 
the letter templates appear to confirm that Lloyds did advise Mr H that the repayment plans 
would be reported  which as in line with Lloyds responsibilities to make such reports  I do 
feel that it is more likely than not, on balance, and in consideration of all the information 
available to me, that Lloyds did inform Mr H, both verbally and in writing, that the repayment 
plans that he was agreeing to would be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H wanted, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time. 
I hope that Mr H will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman