DRN-3209002
The complaint
Ms M complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about an Enterprise Investment Scheme and failed to undertake appropriate due 
diligence at the outset.
What happened
Ms M was advised to invest £120,000 into Octopus EIS-20 in 2015 by a third-party adviser. 
Funds were invested in November 2015. The EIS performed poorly and Ms M says she has 
sustained capital losses of over £100,000. Ms M complained that the level of loss was 
inconsistent with the EIS being marketed as targeting capital preservation. She questioned 
whether appropriate due diligence was carried out by Octopus. Ms M seeks compensation 
for her losses.
In response, Octopus said that EISs are inherently high-risk investments offering significant 
tax relief. It was for Ms Ms adviser to assess whether the product was suitable for Ms Ms 
needs. It was for Octopus to provide information in a clear, fair and not misleading manner 
and to manage the investment in line with the mandate. The target of capital preservation 
explained the investment strategy, but a return was not guaranteed. Octopus maintained that 
the key risks were set out in the Information Memorandum (IM). Octopus relied upon the 
Details of Underlying investments guide, which addressed the potential areas of 
investment. As discretionary investment manager, it was for Octopus to select investments 
in line with the mandate and they had explained the risk of lack of diversification. The 
majority of investment was in solar power, a sector in line with the mandate. Octopus set out 
its due diligence process, following a multi-step process from initial review of plans, approval 
from an investment committee and full due diligence, which included reliance upon third 
party industry expert forecasts. 
Octopus acknowledged that the investment underperformed but said that legislative changes 
impacting the energy sector came into play after investor capital had been deployed. 
Changes such as TRIAD phase-outs 2018/2019, Capacity Market Suspension 2018 followed 
by lower than predicted one-year contracts from 2017 onwards and removal of other 
benefits, affected the predictability of revenue. Falling energy prices outside the UK also 
occurred after funds were invested. These factors were matters outside Octopus control.  
Octopus maintained that the combination of these factors had not been foreseen at the point 
of investment, but energy sector specific risks had nevertheless been highlighted in the IM.
Our investigator considered the IM from the time. He considered that whilst the objective 
was capital preservation, the IM did clearly explain that the investment was high risk. In his 
view the investment strategy of capital preservation was not over-shadowed by the warnings 
that the investment was high risk. Warnings were provided about the high-risk nature of the 
EIS and wider warnings were given about investing in the energy sector. Responsibility for 
suitability of the recommendation was down to Ms Ms adviser.
Our investigator also concluded that extensive and comprehensive research was undertaken 
by Octopus in selecting the investments, the evidence showed that Octopus had researched 
the experience of those managing, the forecasts and projects for returns and had looked to 
assess whether he underlying companies were likely to qualify for EIS relief. On balance, he 
was satisfied that appropriate due diligence had been undertaken, but due to the nature of 
the investment, high risks remained.
Ms M disagrees with the outcome. Ms M has provided some literature in respect of a 
different product provided by Octopus. To be clear, the focus of this decision is the 
information provided about EIS-20, the actual EIS Ms M has complained about.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Ms Ms financial adviser recommended investment into the EIS. 
This decision does not consider whether that recommendation was suitable for Ms Ms 
attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. Any such complaint about 
suitability of the recommendation lies against the provider of that advice. 
Its clear that Ms M is disappointed with the performance of this investment. Having read all 
the information provided, I hope Ms M wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed 
every point raised. Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So, the focus of this decision is whether Octopus 
provided clear, fair and not misleading information about investing in the EIS and whether 
appropriate due diligence was undertaken.
Investment objective 
It is common ground that the objective for this EIS was to target capital preservation through 
investment in the energy sector and to provide multiple tax reliefs, in other words at the end 
of the period of investment, Octopus goal was to have provided investors with the benefit of 
tax relief (including 30% income tax relief and capital gains tax deferral) and to return the 
capital sum invested. Ms M makes no complaint about the tax benefits and it appears that 
the objective of tax efficiency was met. 
It is important to highlight that there is a distinction between an investment objective or 
strategy and the inherent risks with a particular investment. So, for example, an investment 
might target growth but be lower risk. The issue for me to determine is whether clear, fair 
and misleading information was provided about the product. I have considered the 
information provided by Octopus in the IM and Details of underlying investments document. 
I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Ms M read the IM before investing, especially 
as she had confirmed that she carefully selected this particular EIS with her adviser. The EIS application form signed by Ms M also contained a declaration that she had had read and 
understood the IM and the risks factors explained within it.
Risk
I have reviewed the IM from the time. The aim of the investment was to return the capital 
sum invested, whilst also providing a range of tax benefits. That capital preservation was 
targeted rather than growth does not automatically mean that risk exposure was lower. EISs 
are non-mainstream, complex and illiquid, specialised and speculative investments, where 
there is a real risk of losing the original capital investment. It is this risk, which justifies the 
tax benefits and it was for Ms Ms adviser to factor this into the suitability assessment.
In the introduction section of the IM, Octopus highlighted that it was important for the 
investor to read and understand the risks with the product and at the beginning of the risk 
section, stated that this EIS was a high-risk investment where capital remained at risk. The 
distinction between investment objective and risk was set out:
 . . .we want to make sure youre aware of the risks involved with investing in smaller 
companies. An EIS isnt for everyone and should be viewed as a high-risk investment  even 
though we target capital preservation, your capital is placed at risk. 
Octopus directed investors to the risk warning section page numbers that were clearly 
highlighted in the IM. When considering the information objectively, Im persuaded that the 
risks were clearly set out and that Ms M knew or ought to have known from the outset that 
the risks with this investment was higher to achieve the objectives of capital preservation 
and tax relief. Its also relevant that Ms M accepts she understood the high risk attached to 
EIS products generally.
In IM the risk section again highlighted the high-risk profile of the product, that there was no 
guarantee the objective would be met and past performance was not a reliable guide to 
future performance, further that the investment was illiquid with the earliest exit point would 
likely be at least four years.  So, whilst Octopus explained that the aim was to invest so as to 
maintain the capital sum, Im satisfied that they made it clear this outcome was not 
guaranteed. 
Risks specific to the energy sector were also set out. Octopus highlighted that revenue 
streams were dependent on the legislation on which they were built and with reserve power 
the revenue stream depended upon the market prices set by the National Grid for supplying 
energy during peak periods and for the plant to meet its commitment to meet agreed 
amounts of energy over the period of the contract. Any changes to legislation or generating 
performance may affect the returns. Octopus also highlighted that there could be increased 
risk due to the limited diversification within the EIS, as investment would likely be in one or a 
small number of companies within one sector only. So, I note that Ms M raised concern that 
around eight underlying companies were operating in a similar field, Im satisfied that the risk 
of limited diversification and concentration had been highlighted. These were matters for   
Ms M to consider when assessing whether or not the product was suitable for her needs.In my view Octopus provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the risks 
addressing the fact that the overall risk profile was high, there was a risk that legislation 
could change or that energy prices could fluctuate. To be clear, the fact that a combination of 
the highlighted risks materialised was extremely unfortunate, but it does not follow that the 
information provided about risks was misleading. 
Considering the information as a whole, on balance, Im not persuaded that Octopus misled 
Ms M as to the risks of investing in the EIS-20.
Investment in line with the mandate and due diligence
Ms M says she placed great reliance on the concept of capital preservation and raises 
concern about the decisions made by Octopus. 
First, its important to qualify that capital preservation was held out as a target and not a 
guarantee. Further, it does not follow that a target of capital preservation lowered the risk of 
this particular investment, as Ive set out above, Octopus expressly dealt with this within the 
IM. 
Ive reviewed the Details of Underlying investments document, which explained that 
investment would be within the energy or healthcare sector, with emphasis on reserve power 
and international solar power. On balance, Im persuaded that the funds were invested in 
investee companies within these sectors.
Its fair to say that Octopus spoke about relatively predictable revenue and gave information 
about the anticipated revenue streams for the sectors they intended to invest in but that had 
to be balanced against the clear risk warnings set out above. Ive also seen Octopus sought 
industry expert advice about likely returns from the resources and considered these 
forecasts before sharing information with potential investors. Theres nothing to show that it 
was unreasonable to rely on this information at the time it was presented to Octopus. I dont 
consider that it was misleading as at 2015 to refer to relatively predictable revenue streams 
at that time. Octopus had warned that returns could change if legislation changed or 
generating performance changed. Octopus have been clear that the price and legislation 
changes took place after information was provided to Ms M and after the point of investment 
into the underlying companies. 
On balance, I consider that Octopus undertook appropriate due diligence obtaining, amongst 
other things, third party technical expert, energy expert and legal expert reports which were 
then considered through a multi-stage process culminating in consideration by an investment 
committee.
 
I am also persuaded that Octopus did undertake ongoing analysis of the energy sector 
changes. Theyve explained that revised financial forecasts, using projections from third 
party specialists, showed a profit on the base investment for both reserve power and Italian 
solar power, above the investment mandate of simply preserving the capital investment. I 
havent seen anything to show that it was foreseeable that energy prices would fall or that 
revenue streams would change as at pre-investment stage and as Ive stated above, 
Octopus did warn that this was a possibility.I appreciate it is Ms Ms view that Octopus mismanaged the investment, but no specific 
allegations have been raised by her. As Octopus was the discretionary manager it was for 
them to make legitimate commercial decisions on behalf of investors on the basis of the 
information available at the time. To be clear, it isnt within the remit of this service to 
undertake an in depth analysis as to whether better decisions could now have been made, 
as our investigator has explained, it isnt fair and reasonable to consider this matter with the 
benefit of hindsight. 
As to concerns about international solar power, I havent seen anything to show that it was 
unreasonable for Octopus to rely upon industry expert forecasts at the time of providing 
information about the investment in 2015. Funds were being invested at the development 
stage and Im persuaded that Octopus undertook due diligence before proceeding. Further, 
the IM warned that international solar investments were dependent on energy prices in the 
countries in which they operated. That energy prices dropped in Italy after investment was 
therefore a risk highlighted within the IMs and was a matter outside Octopus control. 
Overall, I think its more likely than not that the objective of capital preservation was being 
pursued by Octopus and the funds continued to be invested in the energy sector areas set 
out in the IM. 
Its also relevant that maintaining the investment after funds were invested in November 
2015 meant the requirements for EIS qualification and related tax reliefs remained available. 
It was explained in the IM that the EIS was illiquid and funds would be tied into the investee 
companies for at least three years to secure the benefit of tax relief, but it would likely be at 
least four years before investors could exit. I consider it is more likely than not that Ms M 
was aware that once funds were invested, she would not have access to his capital and 
funds had to remain invested for three years to secure the tax relief she sought. Indeed,    
Ms M has confirmed that she thought that funds would be tied into the investment for around 
five years.
On balance, Im persuaded that Octopus did invest in companies in line with the mandate, 
namely, EIS qualifying companies providing tax reliefs where capital preservation was 
targeted. In this case all the companies were in the energy sector. That multiple risks 
materialised causing performance to drop does not meant Octopus failed to invest in line 
with the mandate or that Octopus was negligent.
Conclusion
I have carefully considered everything that has been said and I understand why Ms M feels 
so strongly about the losses she has sustained. But I cant fairly say, on the basis of the 
information provided, that Octopus have done anything wrong, so I am not upholding this 
complaint. As our investigator highlighted, Ms M may be entitled to loss relief. I note that 
there have been offers of goodwill payments, it is matter for Ms M whether or not she wishes 
to accept them.My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M but for the reasons given, I wont be upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman