DRN-4159378
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) handled a 
claim she made in relation to a transaction on her credit card.
What happened
Miss R purchased teeth aligners, through a company Ill refer to as S, through her Halifax 
credit card in or around August 2021. She paid an initial fee of £99 for a scan, followed by a 
further payment of £1,050. The purchase also included a digital scan box and teeth 
whitening.
In December 2021, Miss R complained to S and said she was horrified that artificial 
intelligence (AI) technology was overseeing her treatment. She said she was furious, 
disgusted and felt misled by Ss marketing. Miss R asked S to refund the cost of the 
purchase and she attempted to return the digital scan box. But S refused this and instead 
refunded £525 to Miss R. She also complained to Halifax.
In January 2022, Halifax wrote to Miss R and told her S had applied a credit to her account 
and this would show on her next statement. It told Miss R the dispute would show as 
resolved. And it said this was a 45 day temporary credit, as S may disagree with the action 
Halifax had taken, but said it would let Miss R know. Miss R complained and said she hadnt 
received a full refund on her February 2022 statement.
Halifax issued its response to Miss Rs complaint in February 2022. It apologised and said it 
could have provided better service to Miss R and so, it said it was arranging to pay her £100. 
It also confirmed it had passed Miss Rs complaint to a team to review under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s75) and it would be in touch with Miss R directly.
Unhappy with this, Miss R referred her complaint to this service. She said she didnt think 
Halifax looked into the full details of her application. She said she got halfway through the 
service and found out that AI was checking her weekly teeth scans, despite Ss website 
saying their team of dentists would check them. She said this went against her beliefs. And 
after she received half her money back from S, they no longer took her scans and stopped 
their service. She said she wanted a refund of the outstanding £525.
Following this, in May 2022, Halifax issued its response to Miss Rs s75 complaint. It said Ss 
terms and conditions clearly said that the dental software system or AI would review weekly 
scans and a dentist would only review scans flagged by AI. Halifax also said S refunded 
Miss R 50% of the cost and Miss R had accepted this. And so, it declined Miss Rs claim.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly. She 
said it was too late for it to raise a claim under the chargeback scheme. She said Halifax 
considered the claim under s75 fairly and she didnt think there had been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. She said she hadnt seen anything to suggest that only 
humans would be monitoring the movement of Miss Rs teeth. She also said Halifaxs offer 
to pay Miss R £100 for the service it provided whilst considering her chargeback dispute was 
fair. She said she thought Halifax dealt with Miss Rs s75 claim in a timely manner and so, 
she didnt recommend Halifax did anything further.
Miss R disagreed. She said there was no indication in Ss marketing that the dental team 
wouldnt consist of a human monitoring her teeth. She also said she was unaware that 
Halifax had made a payment of £100 to her and queried why Halifax told her it was going to 
refund the money to her, but didnt.
Our investigator said when Halifax sent Miss R the letter stating it was going to refund the 
money to her, it hadnt noticed that the statement generated six days prior already showed 
the amount being credited and so, it made an error in sending that letter to Miss R. Our 
investigator said the £100 payment Halifax paid to Miss R was made to reflect this error. She 
also confirmed Halifax made this payment to Miss R in February 2022.
Miss R said her understanding of a team was a group of humans, rather than AI or robots. 
She said she had only ever received dental treatment from a human before.
As Miss R remains in disagreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2023 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Miss R has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
To make it clear, this complaint is about Halifax, as Miss Rs credit card account provider. Its 
not about S, who isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within the remit of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute in two ways  s75 and chargeback.
S75
Ive considered whether I think it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to decline Miss Rs s75 
claim.
Under s75, Halifax are jointly liable for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations made 
by the supplier of goods or services  which is S in this case.
In order for there to be a valid claim under s75, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement in place. Miss R made the purchase on her credit card which was 
supplied by Halifax. I can see the receipt from S is in Miss Rs name. Halifax have shown the 
credit card transaction was in Miss Rs name to S. So, Im satisfied a valid DCS agreement 
exists here.
Ive then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid s75 claim. Miss R needed to 
have purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100, but no more than £30,000. I 
can see from the receipt that the amount within the financial limits. So, it follows this that Im 
satisfied the financial limits have been met for a valid claim.
Overall, Im satisfied Miss R has a like claim against Halifax, as she does against S. And that 
S were acting as an agent of Halifax.
Theres no dispute that Miss R received the goods she was due to receive under the 
contract. This was the teeth aligners, the digital scan box and teeth whitening. But in relation 
to the service provided, Miss R says she wasnt told AI would be looking at her teeth scans 
and instead, she thought a human would be.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the contract Miss R had with S. These say:
oOnce approved for our home orthodontics aligners service, you will receive the 
product in the post, which will contain instructions for completing our home 
orthodontics aligners service. You should also refer to the dental consent form in respect of the risks, outcomes and procedure. 
oEach week you will provide a digital scan of your teeth, This will be reviewed by our 
dental software system (AI). If any issues are detected by the software this will be 
flagged for the Registered Dentist to review.
oThis software will only be scanning for issues in respect of our home orthodontics 
aligners service. This service is not a substitute for visiting your dentist and/or 
hygienist, who you should continue to see to ensure good oral health
oPlease note that the Registered Dentist will only review those digital scans that are 
flagged to him by the software. He will not be reviewing every scan you provide. If the 
Registered Dentist does review any scan he will only be assessing any issues in 
relation to our home orthodontics aligners service. This service is not a substitute for 
visiting your dentist and/or hygienist, who you should continue to see to ensure good 
oral health.
Having carefully considered this, I can see the terms and conditions state that AI would be 
reviewing Miss Rs weekly digital scan and a dentist would not be reviewing every scan 
provided. So, I think Miss Rs contract is clear in letting her know that the digital scan of her 
teeth that she was sending to S each week would be reviewed by AI, rather than by a 
human. So I dont think theres been a breach of contract, as Miss R received the service 
she was due to receive under the contract.
S also appear to have been willing to offer the service and to allow Miss R to continue 
making use of the goods. However she told S she didnt want to deal with them anymore 
after making use of the goods for around 11 weeks. So S offered Miss R a refund of 50%, 
which she accepted.
Ive gone on to consider whether the goods or services were misrepresented to Miss R in 
any way.
When I consider whether a misrepresentation has been made or not, I need to be satisfied 
that S told Miss R a false statement of fact about the goods or services, and that statement 
induced her into entering the contract to acquire them, when she otherwise wouldnt have. 
Miss R said when she was looking at Ss website when she initially made the purchase, it 
stated that Ss team would monitor the alignment of her teeth. She said she believed human 
beings made up the dental team. Miss R has provided extracts from Ss website. These say: 
Our dental team will monitor your teeths movements through our Scan Box, letting you 
know when to move onto your next aligner.
[name] is a hybrid business as whilst we offer our services online, unlike other online aligner 
businesses we have a fully operational dental clinic based near [location].
Im satisfied both of these statements are true. Miss R did receive dental monitoring through 
the scan box she received through a dental team. I note Miss Rs interpretation of the 
phrase dental team, meant she thought a human team would be reviewing her teeth scans 
and she said Ss website mentions there is a dental team and a person who is head of 
dental, which are people. I also acknowledge that Miss R strongly believes that AI shouldnt 
be used in lieu of humans.
However, Im not persuaded that S told Miss R her weekly scans would be reviewed by 
people through the statements made on its website. There are people that work for S. 
However, the terms and conditions clearly state AI would be reviewing the weekly scans and 
that a registered dentist would only review the scans if there were issues flagged to them by 
the software. There doesnt appear to have been any issues with Miss Rs scans and Ive 
listened to a phone call Miss R had with S, in which it was confirmed the movement Miss R 
had with her teeth was fantastic. And so, a dentist or a person didnt review the scans as 
they werent required to.Having carefully considered all this, I dont think S made any false statements to Miss R 
about how her weekly scans would be reviewed. It follows I dont think the service was 
misrepresented to her. And so, I dont think Halifax unfairly declined Miss Rs claim under 
s75.
Chargeback
In this case, Halifax didnt attempt a chargeback as it said it was made out of time. So Ive 
considered whether Halifax should have raised a chargeback when Miss R complained to it. 
And if it should have, what, if anything, it should do to put things right.
A card issuer can attempt a chargeback in certain circumstances when a cardholder has a 
dispute with a merchant  for example when goods or services arent provided. Chargeback 
isnt a legal right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the 
money this way. However, its generally considered good practice for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback if there is a reasonable prospect of a chargeback succeeding. The chargeback 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme and strict criteria apply.
In this case, Miss R made the purchase in August 2021. She complained to Halifax in or 
around January 2022. Miss R received the goods, but she was unhappy with the service that 
was provided. She asked S to provide a full refund halfway through her treatment, which S 
declined, and instead it refunded half the amount she paid.
The chargeback rule that fits the circumstances Miss R has complained of is, Goods or 
Services were either not as described or defective. To raise a chargeback dispute using this 
rule, the chargeback must be raised within a certain time frame.
In this case, the applicable time frame is 120 calendar days from when the services ceased 
with a maximum of 540 days from the transaction settlement date. The settlement date of 
the transaction was in August 2021 and 540 days from that date is February 2023. Miss R 
complained to S in December 2021 and the services were stopped around this time. Bearing 
this date in mind, Miss R had until April 2022 to raise a chargeback dispute. However,     
Miss R raised her complaint in or around January 2022. So this means Miss R raised the 
chargeback within the time allowed by the scheme provider.
Miss Rs dispute centres around whether she was told AI would be reviewing her weekly 
teeth scans or not. However, having considered the terms and conditions of Miss Rs 
contract, I think the goods and services were as described. And so, whilst I think Miss R 
raised a chargeback dispute in time, I dont think it had a reasonable prospect of succeeding 
had it been raised. This is broadly because of the same reasons Ive detailed above when 
considering whether Halifax declined Miss Rs s75 claim fairly or not.
Incorrect information provided by Halifax
Halifax wrote to Miss R in January 2022 and told her that S had applied a credit to her 
account and this would show in the next statement. However, it issued this statement 
incorrectly, as S had already applied a credit of £525 in December 2021. It also didnt tell her 
that it thought the chargeback complaint was out of time.
To put things right, Halifax paid Miss R £100 for incorrectly sending the letter to her in 
January 2022 and because it didnt tell her that it thought the chargeback claim was out of 
time. I think the amount Halifax has already paid to Miss R is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, as Halifax corrected its mistake five days after Miss R brought the error to its 
attention. And so, it follows that Im not intending to tell Halifax to take any further action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R and Halifax didnt respond to my provisional decision.As Miss R and Halifax have provided no further comments in response to my provisional 
decision, it follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusion than set 
out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman