DRN-3501625
The complaint
Ms M complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) recorded missed payments and a default on 
her credit file despite her maintaining payments under a debt management plan.
What happened
Ms M opened a credit card account with MBNA in or around October 2016. 
Due to changes in her financial circumstances, Ms M wasnt able to maintain repayments to 
her account at the contracted level. So, she approached a debt advice charity for support 
and help. She also told MBNA about her situation an they agreed to provide breathing 
space. The debt advice charity completed an assessment of Ms Ms financial circumstances 
and put together a debt management plan (DMP).
In or around November 2018, the DMP was proposed and sent to MBNA suggesting that Ms 
M make monthly payments of £11.84. Ms M made the proposed payments each month. But 
MBNA reported missed payments on her credit file with the credit reference agencies 
between November 2018 and March 2019 and the account was subsequently defaulted in 
April 2019. 
In or around October 2021, Ms M complained to MBNA. She didnt think the information 
reported by MBNA on her credit file was accurate. She thought MBNA should amend her 
credit file to reflect the fact she was making payments under the DMP. 
MBNA wrote to Ms M in November 2021. They didnt agree theyd made a mistake. They 
said theyd reviewed Ms Ms income and expenditure when they received the DMP from the 
debt advisory charity. This showed that Ms M had no surplus income for a formal reduced 
payment plan to be agreed. And while they would accept the payments proposed under the 
DMP into her account, missed contracted payments would continue to be reported on her 
credit file. 
Ms M wasnt happy with MBNAs response to her complaint. She didnt think it was fair to 
report missed payments when she was honouring the arrangement within the DMP. She 
thought this should be clearly recorded on her credit file. So, Ms M decided to refer her 
complaint to this service.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think MBNA had made 
a mistake or acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators findings. She said MBNA should be recording the 
payments she was making under the DMP so that other organisations could see that she 
was honouring that arrangement. She also didnt think MBNA had made it clear to her, or the 
debt advice charity, that they wouldnt be recording the DMP payments on her credit file.
As an agreement couldnt be reached Ms Ms complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms M has submitted complaints relating to other accounts with MBNA. So, 
for clarity, my decision relates only to the account opened in October 2016 with a credit limit 
of £10,500. 
At the outset I want to acknowledge that Ms Ms financial circumstances will undoubtedly 
have caused concern and distress for her. Approaching a debt advice charity, as she did, 
demonstrates Ms Ms desire and willingness to resolve matters in a co-operative way with 
MBNA. And from the information Ive seen, I think Ms Ms actions appear sensible here.
Where a consumer finds themself financially stretched and unable to maintain contractual 
repayments under a lending agreement, there are various options available. These may 
include approaching the lender direct for support and/or enlisting independent support from a 
recognised independent debt advisory organisation.
Where MBNA becomes aware that Ms M may be in financial difficulty, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) has set rules and guidelines to be followed in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCAs handbook. In particular, CONC Section 7 says 
that lenders should consider consumers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. Examples include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments 
to be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from unexpected reduction in income
Lenders shouldnt refuse reasonable affordable repayment proposals made by the 
borrower, debt counsellor or other person authorised by borrower
Lenders shouldnt pressure borrowers to make unreasonably large payments 
where this will have an adverse impact on their financial position, or pressure 
them into selling property to repay a loan
Lenders should take proportionate action against a consumer in arrears or default.
From the evidence Ive seen, I believe MBNA appear to have complied with those 
requirements here. In particular, MBNA havent refused the DMP proposed by Ms M and the 
debt advice charity. They made that clear in a letter they sent to Ms M after receiving the 
proposed DMP. But they did say that the proposed payments wouldnt be sufficient to 
prevent them from registering a default with the credit reference agencies. In other words, 
they werent able to formally accept the proposals under a reduced payment plan.
Because of that, MBNA would be obliged to report missed payments where the amounts 
received were for less than the contractual repayment required. Thats what they did here, 
so I cant reasonably say they made a mistake. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies. It says that as a general 
guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and normally by 
the time you are six months in arrears. From the information Ive seen, it appears Ms Ms 
account met this requirement. And as this is a default trigger, I think MBNA were obliged to 
issue a default notice and record this on Ms Ms credit file. 
Ms M believes MBNA should record the existence of the DMP on her credit file. That way, it 
would be clear to other lenders that she is taking steps to repay the debt. I understand why 
she might think that. Unfortunately, MBNA werent in a position to formally agree the DMP as 
Ms Ms income and expenditure assessment showed she had no surplus income. And 
agreeing a repayment plan in these circumstances may be considered unreasonable or 
irresponsible. MBNA are only required to report formal agreements or variations. So, as the 
DMP hadnt been agreed as a formal variation to the original lending agreement, they 
werent able to formally report payments received under it.I do appreciate Ms Ms frustrations. Particularly as she appears to have stood by the 
proposal presented to MBNA. But while I appreciate she will be disappointed; I cant 
reasonably say that MBNA have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman