DRN-4315082
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired through Oodle Financial Services Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and he wants the car repairing or his financial agreement cancelling.
What happened
Mr M acquired a used car in April 2022 with a hire purchase agreement. He paid a deposit of 
£6,000, and the balance of £28,995 was to be paid through the credit agreement which was 
set up over a 60-month term. At the time of acquisition, the car had already been driven 
more than 40,000 miles and was around 5 years old.
Mr M says the car that he was supplied with wasnt of satisfactory quality  he noticed a drop 
in power several weeks after he acquired it, so he took it to a local garage where a number 
of other issues were identified. Mr M says he paid for these repairs and drove the car away, 
but the following day the car went into limp mode, and his garage told him the car would 
require significant further repairs. Mr M told us:
Oodle say the cars faults are his responsibility and it wont cancel the finance 
agreement or pay for the repairs;
Oodle offered to pay for only one weeks car hire, but hes paid every monthly 
payment yet had no use of his car since the problems arose  the car has been in a 
garage, unable to be driven since April/May 2022;
his local garage advised him that the issues with the car stem from an oil leak and 
that this was a pre-existing issue when he acquired the car;
in January 2023, he took the car back to his local garage because of an issue with 
the electrics; the windscreen is leaking, and this has caused issues with the media 
system, heated seats and carpets;
he has no plans to raise the matters of the electrics and the windscreen in a separate 
complaint to Oodle, and hes separately arranged and paid for repairs with a discount 
agreed with the manufacturer.
Oodle rejected this complaint. It said Mr M contacted it in August 2022 and advised it of the 
issues hed experienced with the car. It arranged an independent inspection of the car in 
September 2022 to determine whether the faults highlighted by Mr M were present or 
developing at the point of supply  April 2022. And it said the independent expert concluded 
that the engine damage was a result of the car having been driven with insufficient oil in the 
sump, something which is the drivers responsibility. Moreover, it found no evidence of the 
catastrophic oil leak claimed by Mr M.
Oodle did offer to pay Mr Ms car hire costs, as a gesture of goodwill, and although there 
was a delay in it doing so, it subsequently confirmed to this Service that a payment of £220 
had been raised and would be paid to Mr M.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that this Service wouldnt be looking at matters relating to the windscreen or the 
electrics as Mr M had decided not to complain to Oodle about these things. 
He went on to explain that just because something had gone wrong with the car, it doesnt 
mean that it was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And taking into account the 
report following the independent inspection, hed seen no evidence that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He said the report was clear  the car had been 
driven with an insufficient level of oil, and the inspection had found no evidence of an oil 
leak.
He went on to explain that the manufacturer recommends the oil levels on this type of car 
should be checked weekly and he quoted from it, the relatively high levels of oil that this type 
of car burns off. He concluded that as a consumable product, the oil, and maintaining the 
appropriate level of it, was Mr Ms responsibility, and not something he could hold Oodle 
responsible for.
Mr M disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says the root cause of the 
engine failure was a catastrophic oil leak that should not have developed in a car of this age 
and mileage. And he questioned the impartiality of the independent inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr M is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Oodle is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Oodle in this case  had a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality. So, what I need to consider in this case is 
whether the car supplied to Mr M was of satisfactory quality or not.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
This hasnt been an easy complaint to decide, but having considered things most carefully, I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld. I say this because based on what Ive seen and 
read, there simply isnt enough evidence to say that the car supplied to Mr M was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that the level of oil in the sump is the determining factor; low levels of oil 
caused the engine failure. But the parties disagree about why the level of oil was lower than 
it shouldve been, and who is responsible for the cost of repair that result from this. Where 
theres disagreement between the parties about something like this, my role is to determine 
what I think is more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence and testimony 
from both sides.
I think its safe to conclude that theres likely only three possible reasons why the cars oil 
level might have been lower than expected. So, Ive examined each.The car was supplied to Mr M with very little or no oil.
Under this scenario, any oil wouldve burned off within a few days and the damage to 
the engine wouldve followed quickly. Neither party claims that this is what happened, 
but Ive considered it, nonetheless. 
Having done so, I dont think this is likely to be the cause of the damage. I say this 
because Mr M told us he was able to drive the car for about a month before he 
noticed a drop in power and took it into his local garage. I dont think this wouldve 
been possible if thered been no oil or very little oil in the sump at the point of supply. 
And the notes from the garages inspection dont suggest that this is what happened 
or what it noted when Mr M took his car in.
The car experienced a catastrophic oil leak.
This is Mr Ms claim; a catastrophic oil leak resulted in the loss of power that he 
experienced. He says the car then went into limp mode shortly after his garage had 
inspected it and returned it to him.
But the third party that inspected the car was specifically asked about an oil leak. Its 
findings were clear and quite specific. Its inspector said, I examined the engine bay 
for signs of oil seepage but couldn't find any. The underside of the vehicle didn't 
show any signs of an oil leak either.
So, in the absence of any detailed evidence of an oil leak, and evidence to the 
contrary from the specialist independent expert who examined the car, Im not 
persuaded that an oil leak was responsible for the engine damage.
The level of oil wasnt maintained at a satisfactory level.
This is the finding of the independent inspection, and, in the absence of anything 
else, Im persuaded that this is the cause of the engine damage. I say this because:
The inspection report says that at the point of inspection, the oil level was low, and 
no evidence of an oil leak was present  either in the engine bay or on the underside 
of the car. The inspection report went on to say, the most likely cause of the engine 
damage is due to the car having been driven with insufficient oil in the sump. As it is 
the drivers responsibility to check the engine levels on a regular basis it appears that 
the engine damage is due to driver error. The report says that the insufficient level of 
oil would lead to cavitation which, in turn, would reduce the thickness of the film of oil 
coating the bearings and components.
In conclusion, the report said, at the time of inspection the most likely cause of the 
engine damage is due to the vehicle having been driven with insufficient oil in the 
sump. As it is the drivers responsibility to check the engine levels on a regular basis 
it appears that the engine damage is due to driver error.
The independent inspector did say that stripping and removing the engine in order to 
conduct a more detailed examination would be possible, but that Mr M would be responsible 
for the costs associated with this.
So, based on the evidence available at the moment, Im not able to conclude that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M by Oodle. This is because theres 
simply no evidence that there was a fault with oil or the engine that was present or 
developing at the point of sale.Finally, Mr M questions the impartiality of the third-party inspector. He says it was employed 
by Oodle and consequently is not impartial. But I have to tell him I disagree. The third party 
is independent; its recognised in the industry as one of the experts in these types of 
assessments or inspections. Its true that it was instructed by Oodle, but it wasnt employed 
it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman