DRN-3029155
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2004. Miss D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Miss Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. The 
PPI was likely sold to Miss D when Barclays called her to complete its credit card application 
process after receiving her postal application for a credit card.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but my colleague thought Barclays 
offer, to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Miss D paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ds representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ds 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Barclays offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Barclays hasnt got a recording of the sales call  but that isnt surprising given the time 
that has passed since. Miss D has said the PPI was just included on her card. I give her 
recollections some weight, but I also bear in mind she set these out for us more than ten 
years after the sale  so it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt recall all the details. Also, 
what we know of call scripts Barclays used in sales that followed card applications like 
Miss Ds, makes me think Barclays wouldve usually made it clear the PPI was optional 
and only added it if the customer said they wanted it. Taking everything into account, 
Miss Ds recollections arent enough on their own to make me think Barclays didnt give 
her a choice about the PPI like I think it normally wouldve. So, based on what I have, I 
think it more likely Barclays made it clear Miss D didnt have to take the PPI and she 
chose to take it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss D, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And the evidence about Miss Ds circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Miss D has told us she 
was financially stretched and didnt have savings to pay her card if she couldnt work, 
and from what shes told us she was entitled to no more than statutory pay for sickness 
or redundancy. So I think Miss D had a need for the cover. Also, based on what I have, 
Im not persuaded the cover wasnt affordable for her at the time she chose to take it. 
Also, Miss D was eligible for the cover, nothing about her employment or occupation 
wouldve made it difficult for her to claim and in what she told us when she bought us her 
complaint, she didnt tell us of having any existing health issues that the policy mightve 
excluded or made it hard for her to claim for. There were also no additional restrictions 
on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, taking everything into account, I dont think she wouldve declined 
the cover had Barclays done anything more. 
I say this bearing in mind Ive found she chose to take the policy, and I dont think she 
wouldve done without at least a broad understanding of the cover it provided - so it looks 
to me like she wanted this type of cover. The policy wasnt unsuitable for her, as I 
concluded above, and it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went 
wrong in the circumstances it covered. Also, I dont think it was too dissimilar overall to 
what its likely she thought she was buying from the information its likely she was given. 
Also, I think it likely Miss D was made aware the policy carried a cost, and unlikely she 
wouldve agreed to it without an idea of the approximate cost. Bearing in mind the actual 
cost, the benefit the policy would pay and the limited means Miss D had to pay her card 
if she couldnt work  and having thought carefully about all shes said about this - Im 
not persuaded being told more about the cost wouldve put her off taking the policy.
Overall, I consider Miss D wouldve still taken the PPI. Given her circumstances, I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances 
it covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Miss Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: 
A claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
Miss Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Miss D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Miss D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss D, because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMiss Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss D should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Barclays failed to tell Miss D about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Miss D wouldnt have taken 
the policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of 
all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Miss D in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclays failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss D paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss D 
with the policy Ive concluded above she wouldve still taken if Barclays had done everything 
it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Barclays offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Ds complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss D an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable), if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2021. 
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman