DRN-3172001
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that the investment portfolio recommended by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Wealth Management (Barclays), was not 
suitable for them.
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs G met with the bank to discuss investing some of their savings. They 
had £200,000 available but, as first-time investors, decided they wanted to invest only 
£50,000 to test the markets. It was agreed they had a low risk attitude and that they wanted 
to invest for capital growth. £50,000 was invested in the banks personal investment 
management portfolio (BPIM), utilising their ISA allowances. Just over a year later, Mr and 
Mrs G closed the portfolio.
In 2005 Mr and Mrs G met with the bank again to discuss investing their savings. They were 
assessed as having a cautious attitude to risk. They agreed to invest £150,000 in three fixed 
interest bonds.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative said they do not wish to pursue a complaint about the advice 
given in 2005. The rest of this decision will focus on the advice that was given in 2001.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative said the BPIM was too high risk for Mr and Mrs G, particularly 
given their investment inexperience.
Barclays said Mr and Mrs G invested a relatively modest amount of their savings and that 
the investment was low risk. It apologised for the delay in responding to Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint and paid them £250 to compensate them for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
exposure to equities was too high for Mr and Mrs G given their inexperience and cautious 
attitude to risk.
Barclays didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Mr and Mrs G kept £150,000 cash in a bank deposit account which greatly reduced the 
risk of the portfolio. The importance of taking the cash reserve into account was included 
in the BPIM brochure.
The fact that its recorded that Mr and Mrs G wanted to test the waters by only investing 
£50,000 shows that a discussion about risk and the cash reserve took place.
The equity content of the portfolio was blue-chip companies, not highly speculative 
shares.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the meeting with Mr and Mrs G, whilst its not clear exactly what discussion took 
place, it was agreed they had a low attitude to risk. The BPIM brochure described a low risk 
profile as:
You are a reasonably cautious investor. You require a significant proportion of your savings 
to be in cash form. For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared to accept a 
limited degree of fluctuation in capital value, in return for the potential of modest long-term 
growth.
Barclays recommended its Capital Growth with Safety portfolio. This was described as:
The level of income is not a factor. You are more concerned with the growth and protection 
of your capital over the longer term.
Barclays says Mr and Mrs G had a significant sum in cash form and that they only invested a 
relatively small sum (the minimum recommended).
I dont find the portfolio recommended reflected the level of risk Mr and Mrs G were prepared 
to take. The BPIM risk profile relied on cash reserves being kept outside the portfolio  to off-
set the higher investment risk. Although Mr and Mrs G chose to retain more than the 
recommended amount in cash, I dont think they fully understood that the portfolio element 
would be invested into funds which were substantially invested in equities. 
Barclays has highlighted to us the wording on page 16 of its brochure which gave some 
explanation about the cash reserve and how a reduction in the cash reserve would increase 
Mr and Mrs Gs overall level of risk. But Ive not seen evidence to show their attention was 
drawn to this, or that it was discussed in any detail during the meeting.
I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G reasonably thought the investment of £50,000 would 
expose them to a low level of risk. This would have been reinforced by the description of the 
portfolio as providing capital growth with safety. I dont think the investment profile of the 
portfolio, which included a 78% investment in equities, was suitable for the risk level theyd 
agreed they were prepared to take. The fact that the equity investment may have been in 
blue chip stocks, does not change my conclusion  there was still more exposure to market 
fluctuations that Mr and Mrs G reasonably expected.
Mr and Mrs G did not have previous stock market experience. Had they understood the risks 
involved, I am satisfied it is more likely than not that they wouldnt have agreed to invest in 
the portfolio.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs G as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs G's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs G fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs G's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
BPIM No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Barclays should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Mr and Mrs G wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs G into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs G would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs G could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays 
Wealth Management, should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Wealth Management, should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr and Mrs G in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman