DRN-2658582
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with her claim for 
storm damage under her house insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H noticed water coming through her wallpaper onto the floor in an upstairs bedroom.
She noted that there had been heavy rain that day and reported the damage to her insurers
the following day.
Ms H had buildings insurance with storm damage, emergency cover and accidental damage.
She requested assistance under the emergency cover but was told that she was not
covered.
UKI sent out a surveyor 3 days after the storm to assess the damage. They produced a
report in which they said that there was no evidence of storm damage. The surveyor said
that the edges of the bay window roof were in a poor state of repair and had come away
from the boards underneath. He also said that the damage to the ceiling in the bedroom
was not from an isolated incident of water and that the paper had started to peel away over
time. Ms Hs claim under her buildings insurance for storm damage was declined.
Ms H arranged for emergency repairs herself and has now also had some other work carried
out including repairing the flat roof above the bay window and replacing the damaged roof
tiles.
Ms H made a complaint to UKI that the damage to the roof of her bay window and the
internal damage to the bedroom ceiling should be covered under her policy. Her complaint
was not upheld as UKI agreed with their surveyor that the damage was not caused by a one-
off storm incident but was gradual damage caused by wear and tear. This is excluded under 
the buildings insurance policy. UKI did, however, apologise for the delay she had
experienced obtaining the surveyors report.
Ms H then brought her complaint against UKI to this service. Ms H is claiming a total of
£1,400 for the repairs, including the emergency work, and £150 for repairs to the
plasterboard in her bedroom. She also says that there were delays in the surveyors report
being provided to her, and that she has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint as she concluded that both the external and
internal damage was most likely to have been gradual damage and not caused by a one-off
storm incident. The investigator also did not feel that compensation was warranted for
distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2021.  I said 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the
damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim
unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it.
I have seen the policy documents for Ms Hs building insurance. Page 8 of the policy
includes building damage that is caused by storm or flood. Page 7 excludes damage from
wear and tear, loss or damage as a result of lack of maintenance, and any damage caused
gradually. Page 10 deals with accidental damage.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I have to ask three questions:
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend
that a storm complaint is upheld. I will look at each point separately and consider the
external damage and the internal damage.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Ms H made her own enquiries regarding the weather conditions, as did UKI. I have
reviewed these reports and I dont think there is any dispute that there was significant rainfall
on the day in question. As neither party is disputing this point, Im satisfied that there were
storm conditions at the time of the incident.
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
Ive thought carefully about whether the damage caused to Ms Hs property is consistent
with what we would normally consider to be storm damage.
In relation to the roofing around the bay window, it is unusual for this type of roofing to be
damaged by heavy rain if its in good condition. Its more often the case that damage occurs
during a storm because that weather highlights pre-existing problems with the roof. UKIs
surveyor states that the edges of the bay window had de-bonded from the boards
underneath. I think it would be unlikely for rain to come down with such force that it would
cause the damage stated, without there having been a pre-existing problem.
In relation to the internal damage, I am satisfied that peeling wallpaper and water coming
through the ceiling are typical examples of damage from water ingress caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked very carefully at the report from UKIs surveyor as this is the only expert evidence
I have. Ms H did not obtain her own expert report, although it was open to her to do so if she
wished. I appreciate that this report was obtained by UKI and therefore not wholly
independent, but this does not mean that it cannot be relied upon. I will give it such weight
as I feel is appropriate.
Ms H was concerned that the surveyor only spent a short time at the property and did not
climb on to the roof to inspect it. Neither did he go inside the roof to see if it was leaking. I
do not think it unreasonable for the surveyor to inspect the property from the outside and to
use a telescopic device to take photos. This is usual practice. As the surveyor was able to
identify where he thought the problem was, and this corresponded with the internal damage,
I do not think it unreasonable for him not to have gone into the roof itself.Ms H says that one of the workmen she employed to carry out repairs told her that the heavy
rainfall must have found a way in and perhaps had broken a seal. It would be unusual for
rainfall to cause this sort of damage to a bay window roof with no pre-existing problem. Ms
H states that her roofers comments should be given the same weight as UKIs surveyors
comments, but I have to work with the evidence I have.
Ms H has provided details of the work that she had carried out by her own roofer. They
stripped off the old lead roof on the bay window, fitted new board, and a new rubber roof.
They also carried out some other work including replacing some roof tiles.
Some of the work that Ms H had carried out is consistent with the damage that UKI said
there was to the bay window roof. Ms H states that she does not believe the flat lead roof
on the bay window was damaged, but that she was trying to do whatever work was required
to prevent any further leaks. However, the fact that this work was carried out would suggest
to me that the repair was needed. I think Ms H would have been unlikely to have gone to
this expense if it were not.
Taking the surveyors report and photos together with the fact the roof damage isnt
consistent with what we might usually expect to see in cases of storm damage, I think it was
fair for UKI to decide the damage wasnt down to a one-off storm incident. I think its more
likely the heavy rainfall simply highlighted existing issues with the bay window roof. I do not
uphold this part of Ms Hs complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether the claim for internal damage should be covered under
the accidental damage section of the policy. This is contained in Section C. UKI considers
accidental damage to be sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens
unexpectedly. The policy does, however, exclude damage caused by wear and tear, or
damage that was caused gradually over time.
The surveyor in his report states that the woodchip paper had started to peel away due to
water ingress over a period of time. The report is very brief, and the surveyor does not go
on to explain how he comes to this conclusion. I have looked at the photos in the report and
without any further explanation cannot see anything there that confirms to me whether this
happened over a period of time or not. I cant see any evidence in the photos of staining or
mould. Ms H on the other hand says that she had seen no damage to the ceiling before the
date of the storm. I have no reason to disbelieve her. Ms H acted promptly after the storm
to make the necessary repairs to the roof of the bay window, and I think that she is likely to
have acted equally swiftly had she been aware that water was coming in through her
bedroom ceiling on a previous occasion.
I accept that the internal damage to Ms Hs home was sudden, unexpected and unintended.
Without further explanation from the surveyor, I have concluded that on balance the damage
to the bedroom ceiling was something that has built up unseen and eventually became
evident to Ms H following the storm. Im therefore satisfied that UKI should cover the cost of
the internal damage under the accidental damage section of the policy. Ms H has stated
that the cost of the internal repairs would be £150. Ms H should consider whether she wants
to claim for this depending on the level of her excess.
Ms H also complained to UKI about the delay in the claim being dealt with. Ms H reported
the claim on 18 June. UKI instructed a surveyor who attended on 20 June. Ms H then heard
nothing from UKI regarding her claim. On 23 June she requested a copy of the report from
the surveyor, but this was not received until 9 July. She heard nothing from UKI so emailed
them on 5 July. They replied on 6 July and sent a final response refusing her claim on 14
July. UKI accepted that there had been some issues in their handling of the claim andapologised but did not feel that any further action was required.
I do not feel that there was any considerable delay in processing Ms Hs claim, but I do think
that UKI should have contacted Ms H with a copy of the report and their decision on her
claim without her having to prompt them into doing so. Ms H was inconvenienced by having
to chase UKI and the surveyor on a number of occasions, and this must have added to her
stress of sorting out the repairs to her property. In the circumstances, I have awarded the
sum of £25 compensation to Ms H for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI did not respond.
Ms H accepted my provisional decision but responded with some further general comments 
and summaries of weather reports.  She also pointed out that she had made a mistake with 
the cost of the internal repairs. Rather than £150 which she originally requested, she said 
this should have read £450.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my
provisional decision.
I have looked at the weather reports Ms H submitted. There is no dispute between the 
parties that there was a storm at the time of the incident so I do not think these reports take 
matters any further.  
I have also looked carefully at Ms Hs comments, but she does not introduce any new 
information except in relation to the cost of the internal repairs. She did not provide a written 
quote previously and I accept that Ms H may have made a mistake with the cost. She should 
now provide a written quote if she is to arrange for the repairs to be carried out herself. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms H I require UKI to:
Either arrange for the internal repairs to be carried out to the area around the 
bedroom window, or agree a written quote provided by Ms H so that she can arrange 
for the repairs to be completed. This is subject to excess.
Pay £25 compensation to Ms H for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I do not uphold the part of Ms Hs complaint relating to storm damage to the roofing around 
the bay window.
I do, however, uphold the part of the complaint relating to accidental damage to the bedroom 
ceiling and I require UK Insurance Limited to put things right as I have outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman