DRN-3769811
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that until recently, Mr and Mrs K held jointly with 
Barclays Bank (UK) PLC. The essence of the complaint is that since the mortgage fell due 
for repayment, Barclays harassed and Mr and Mrs K, adding to the stress they were 
experiencing whilst trying to effect a plan to repay the outstanding balance. That eventually 
came to pass in August 2022.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs K and Barclays Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs K being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage originally fell due for repayment in 2018; that was then extended to 
2019, but the mortgage wasnt repaid then either. Like all lenders, Barclays paused its 
recovery activities during the COVID pandemic, but when it resumed in 2021, Mr and Mrs K 
took exception to the manner and tone of the banks communications. They had a buy-to-let 
property they were planning to sell, and were also aiming to secure a lifetime equity release 
mortgage. Amongst other things, they thought it unreasonable and intrusive of Barclays to 
ask them for income and expenditure information before it would consider further 
forbearance.
When the complaint came to us, Barclays paused recovery activity, and whilst weve been 
looking at it, Mr and Mrs K have secured their equity release mortgage and have repaid 
Barclays altogether. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had treated Mr and Mrs K unfairly. Mr and Mrs K asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mr and Mrs K borrowed money from Barclays, and under the 
term of their agreement with Barclays, were due to have repaid it in 2019. The available 
evidence suggests thats because they didnt wish to yet, rather than because they couldnt. 
No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before; theyre not 
automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must 
treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what 
mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public.
Barclays was never in a position to assess whether to grant Mr and Mrs K a further term 
extension because they refused to provide the income and expenditure information it asked 
for. Ive read their comments on why they regard the request as intrusive and unnecessary. 
I appreciate their strength of feeling but without wishing to be unkind, they have mis-directed 
themselves. A comprehensive picture of its borrowers financial situation is not just a 
reasonable and legitimate request for a lender to make before making a decision, its 
something the FCA requires a prudent lender to do.
The truth is that Barclays had already shown Mr and Mrs K a degree of patience and 
forbearance before the events Im dealing with here (albeit that was partly due to the COVID 
moratorium). But lenders arent required to wait indefinitely, and I cant fairly find Barclays to 
be at fault if it had run out of patience with the repayment strategy Mr and Mrs K wanted to 
use, especially when they wouldnt provide the information it asked for about their wider 
financial circumstances.
Mr and Mrs K are upset about the tone and content of the messages from Barclays - both 
over the phone and in writing. In particular, Mr K has cited the oft-repeated message that 
they were in breach of their mortgage contract. But the simple truth is, they were, and 
furthermore, werent co-operating with Barclays information requirements, which Ive already 
found to have been legitimate and reasonable. Also, there are certain letters that a lender 
has to send directly to a borrower, to comply with the rules of mortgage regulation, and in the 
examples Ive seen, the wording and tone are consistent with what the FCA expects lenders 
to say.
Lastly, its worth pointing out that the expiry of the mortgage, and the need to repay it when 
due, should not have come as a surprise to Mr and Mrs K. They have had the entire life of 
the mortgage to come up with a plan for repaying the mortgage when it was actually due, 
plus the additional time since the expiry date passed.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr and Mrs K. Thats 
a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they 
are here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I dont find that Barclays has treated Mr and Mrs K unfairly in 
its actions between the mortgage expiry date and the date it was eventually repaid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman