DRN-3939588
The complaint
Mr G complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) arent providing 
him with an explanation for why his car insurance policy has increased. 
What happened
Mr G received a quote to renew his policy which he says was 19% higher than the previous 
year. So he asked Advantage for the reasons and complained when they wouldnt answer 
his query. Advantage responded and explained the information Mr G is asking for is 
commercially sensitive so theyre unable to respond to his query. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He thought Advantage hadnt treated Mr G 
unfairly in not providing him with the reasons for the price increase. Mr G disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. I can see   
Mr G has raised a number of complaints, so I wish to clarify what Ive considered as part of 
this complaint. When taking out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an 
insurance intermediary  often a broker - who is responsible for arranging, selling and 
administering the policy. The insurer, which in this case is Advantage, is responsible for 
setting the price of a policy  and its Mr Gs complaint about not receiving an adequate 
response to his query about the price that Ill be looking at here. I can see Mr G has raised 
additional complaints, but these would need to be against the broker.  
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr G paid a premium of £352.27 in 2021 but then received a quote for £419.78 in 
2022  this is just under £70 more. Mr G queried the price increase with Advantage and they 
say, in an effort to retain Mr G, they applied a discount which reduced the premium to 
£395.66. Advantage have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to 
explain how Mr Gs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him 
because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price 
he was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other 
Advantage customers in Mr Gs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr G would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. I cant provide specific detail about 
Advantages risk model, but Advantage have demonstrated they changed their approach on 
how they rate policies as well as external factors they took into account. One factor relates to 
an increase in the average claim costs and the need to raise the price of policies to cover 
this. Mr G may feel this is unfair, but Advantage, like all insurers, will review their approach 
to risks at different points and this will result in changes to the premium. They have 
explained this, together with the application of a different rating system, was a change 
across all their policies as they changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all 
customers the same with the change and Mr G hasnt been treated differently or unfairly 
when they chose to change their approach. 
I can see, when Mr G raised a query about the price, Advantage did apply a discount. I can 
see the deductions Advantage applied to the price which then led to the price of £395.66  
which they say was an attempt to retain Mr G as a customer. So, Im satisfied the discount 
they applied here wasnt to correct a mistake theyd made with the original quote but was as 
a result of a discretionary discount. So, I think Advantage increased Mr Gs premium at 
renewal correctly in keeping with the changes made to their risk ratings and underwriting 
guidelines. And, in addition to this, I think they treated Mr G fairly and reasonably in applying 
a discretionary discount. 
I do appreciate Mr G will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a response to his questions 
to Advantage. Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an insurers 
explanation will often be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think Advantage have acted 
unreasonably in not providing a response to the specific questions raised by Mr G.
I can see Mr G feels there is procedural unfairness in a process which allows Advantage to 
see his written complaint but one which doesnt allow him the opportunity to view their 
response. And he feels this goes against the spirit of natural justice. I do acknowledge       
Mr Gs points but, as Ive said, I cant provide the detail Mr G is looking for to explain why the 
premium has increased. But I hope it reassures Mr G to know that our service is 
independent and impartial, and Ive checked the policy breakdown and ratings applied by 
Advantage. And Im satisfied that Mr G hasnt been treated unfairly or differently to other 
customers in the same circumstances.  
I understand Mr G feels that, if the evidence supplied by Advantage isnt disclosed to him, 
then it shouldnt be taken into account. I do acknowledge Mr Gs frustration at not being able 
to see Advantages pricing model, but in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome, its 
something I must take into account. We operate under a set of rules laid down by Parliament 
under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and known as the DISP rules. I can see Mr G refers to DISP 3.5.9(2) which says, 
the Ombudsman may, accept information in confidence (so that only an edited version, 
summary or description is disclosed to the other party) where he considers it appropriate  
Mr G says our service hasnt followed this rule by not providing an edited version or 
summary. 
I think its important to point out that this rule doesnt place an absolute requirement on our 
service to provide an edited copy of a business response to a complainant. There is a 
discretionary element here which allows an ombudsman to consider whether its appropriate. 
In this case, Ive provided Mr G with as much of a description that Im able to provide without 
compromising Advantages business sensitive information. I can see Mr G has asked for a 
redacted copy of Advantages response, but I dont believe this will provide Mr G with the 
information hes looking for as any information showing the actual ratings will likely be 
redacted. I wish to reassure Mr G Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman