DRN-4022972
The complaint
Mr Q complains that a car supplied under a contract hire agreement with Mercedes Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr Q was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with MBFS. The term of the agreement was 3 years. This was extended by a further year to 
February 2023.
In October 2022 Mr Q experienced an issue with the car not starting. The car was recovered 
to a garage, who diagnosed an issue with the crankshaft and provided Mr Q with a repair 
estimate of £6000.
Mr Q complained to MBFS and asked it to cover the cost of repairs. MBFS didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said there was no evidence to show that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Mr Q wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it was reasonable to expect that a brand 
new car should be free from this type of major defect three years from the point of supply. 
The investigator said that Mr Q should be allowed to reject the car and end the agreement 
early.
MBFS didnt agree. It said that because the issues occurred more than 6 months after the 
point of supply, then burden was on Mr Q to show that the car had an inherent fault at the 
point of supply. It said it hadnt seen any evidence that the crankshaft had an inherent fault 
and said the issue was likely due to wear and tear or external influences. MBFS said that Mr 
Q had covered 38,561 miles in the car before the fault occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, and other things including fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a brand new car to be of a very high standard and to remain free from defects 
for a reasonable period of time. 
Under the relevant legislation, where car has a fault which makes it of unsatisfactory quality 
within the first 6 months of the point of supply, its assumed that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.  After 6 months the burden of [proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issue which occurred with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. This is based on the 
diagnostic report and repair estimate dated 13 October 2022 and the assessment dated 11 
October 2022.
Ive gone on to consider whether the fault means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Ive already said that Id expect a brand new car to be of a very high standard and to be free 
from defects for a reasonable period of time.
In this case, the car has suffered a major defect around 3  years and 38,500 miles after the 
point of supply. Durability is one of the factors I have to consider when deciding whether a 
car is of satisfactory quality. So, if a part  such as a crankshaft, which is expected to last the 
lifetime of the engine  fails prematurely, this might suggest that there was a durability issue 
with the car. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to experience a fault of this 
nature in a car of this age and mileage. Im of the view that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable, which means it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation a business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault. In this 
case, the hire agreement has already ended, and Mr Q has handed the car back. So, repair 
isnt an option.
In the circumstances, I think Mr Q should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr Q wasnt able to use the car since 4 October 2022. I dont think its fair to expect Mr Q to 
pay for a car he was unable to use, so all payments made since 4 October 2022 should be 
refunded.
Its clear that Mr Q has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied 
with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to arrange inspections and find 
alternative methods of transport. I think its fair to ask MBFS to pay compensation for this.
Mr Q has provided evidence of further costs hes incurred. These include recovery and 
inspection costs. These costs were incurred because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
and I think its fair to ask MBFS to refund these.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr Q to pay
Refund all rental payments made since 4 October 2022 to the date of settlement
Refund the costs of recovery and diagnostics £336
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlementPay compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Qs credit file in relation to the agreement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman