DRN-3419647
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as RateSetter, loaded a fraud marker 
against his name on the Cifas database.
What happened
Mr P discovered after taking out a loan with RateSetter that a fraud marker had been placed 
against his name as it was having a detrimental impact on him. After application to Cifas, he 
discovered that the marker was placed for obtaining a loan and evading the repayment of it.
Mr P made a complaint to RateSetter disputing this. He said that hed previously held a loan 
with it and fully made repayments. He also highlighted that he was experiencing severe 
financial difficulties at the time of the loan subject of the Cifas marker, and this eventually led 
to bankruptcy.
RateSetter looked into the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint but didnt agree itd made an 
error. Mr P, unhappy with this response, brought his complaint to our service to be looked 
into again.
An Investigator looked into the evidence and testimony provided by both parties but didnt 
agree RateSetter had acted fairly. They recommended that RateSetter remove the Cifas 
marker held against Mr Ps name.
RateSetter disagreed with the Investigators assessment and recommendation. It reiterated 
that itd loaded the marker at the time correctly and provided evidence from Cifas that the 
loading appeared to meet the threshold required. 
As RateSetter disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that RateSetter have filled with Cifas is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility. Here, RateSetter has claimed that Mr P opened a facilityin this instance 
a loanfor a fraudulent purpose. It says that the fraudulent purpose was to evade 
repayment of that loan. In short, Mr P opened the account with the intention of not repaying 
it.
In order to file such a marker, RateSetter is not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr P is guilty of fraud, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. As part of its evidential requirements, Cifas says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
From the evidence provided by all parties, I dont think its contested that RateSetter had 
sufficient information to initially load the marker against Mr Ps name. Hed made one 
repayment of the loan, cancelled his direct debit and then failed to respond to a number of 
correspondences from RateSetter asking him to get in touch and resolve the repayments 
owed.
Mr P has admitted to ignoring these correspondences, so RateSetter were placed into a 
position where it was unaware of Mr Ps personal circumstances and it appeared as if Mr P 
had taken out the loan and ceased repayments without reasonable excuse.
I find that at this point, RateSetter was correct in loading the marker and had satisfied the 
guidance set out by Cifas. But that isnt the end of the story.
Once Mr P had been made aware of the marker, he complained to RateSetter regarding it. It 
was at this point that Mr P made RateSetter aware of his personal circumstances at the time; 
that he was in severe financial difficulty and undergoing a number of personal challenges.
Mr P had a number of documents to support his testimony which hes provided to our 
service. Hed taken the loan out to consolidate a number of existing debtsnot for personal 
gainand has told our service that he buried his head in the sand as result of the growing 
pressure he was facing; hence why hed not responded to requests by RateSetter to contact 
it. Hes also evidenced that he was made bankrupt due to his circumstances some months 
after the loan had been initially taken out.
While the marker was initially loaded correctly, it was at this point that Mr P no longer 
satisfied the requirements set out by Cifas. He was in severe financial difficulties and 
couldnt afford to repay the loan. And this didnt later appear to be the actions of a person 
intent on defrauding a business when hed finally decided to come forward and offer an 
explanation.
I think RateSetter could have used this opportunity to reconsider if it still had the evidence to 
fulfil the requirements set out by Cifas and retain the marker, rather than considering if it had 
placed it correctly at the time of loading. The testimony and supporting evidence had 
changed the circumstances in which the loading was originally made.
Ive considered the evidence provided by Mr P and Im persuaded he was in fact in the 
circumstances hes set out. Hes sufficiently evidenced his financial difficulty and has 
provided a reasonable explanation for not engaging with the business at the time. Ive also 
taken into consideration that a repayment was initially made  which also goes some way to 
show Mr P initially intended to repay the loan.
So, for the above reasons, I find that the first requirements set out by Cifas above can no 
longer be satisfied. I dont find that sufficient evidence can now be presented to support the 
fact that Mr P misused his facility by taking out the loan with the intention of not repaying it. 
And being unable to meet repayments due to financial difficulties should be dealt with as 
such rather than as an act of intentional fraud.
Putting things right
RateSetter should now go ahead and remove the Cifas filing placed against Mr Ps name 
without delay.Ive considered if compensation is appropriate in this case for the impact the marker caused 
to Mr P, but I dont think it is in the circumstances.
While I understand why Mr P shunned attempts at contact from RateSetter when faced with 
mounting debts and pressures, it was this action that ultimately led to the marker being 
loaded in the first place and, ultimately, the impact caused by it. I therefore dont find it 
appropriate that RateSetter take responsibility where Mr Ps actions were initially the cause 
of the impact. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Retail Money Market 
Ltd, trading as RateSetter, to remove the Cifas filing against Mr Ps name.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman