DRN-3022481
The complaint
Mr U complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Moneybarn No. 
1 Limited (Moneybarn) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr U acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Theres no longer a dispute that the car was misrepresented to Mr U. It was advertised with 
a lower mileage than was recorded in the MOT completed only a month before Mr U took 
receipt of the car.
Moneybarn calculated that had the car been sold with the correct mileage it would have 
been worth £300 less. So, they said theyd reduce Mr Us account balance by £300 and that 
would also reduce the amount of interest payable.
Mr U decided to voluntarily terminate his agreement. In order to do so he would have had to 
have paid half of the amount due (£6,478.88). But as hed already paid that before the 
discount was applied he didnt benefit from that discount.
Id agree that £300 is a fair discount given the scale of the misrepresentation. I dont think 
Moneybarn need to refund anymore than that as Mr U clearly had full use of the car until he 
terminated the deal and its only fair he pays for that usage.
Putting things right
As Mr U hasnt benefitted from the discount Moneybarn promised I think they should pay the 
£300 to him in cash.
Moneybarn also paid Mr U £250 in respect of the distress, inconvenience and delay caused. 
I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and Im not asking them to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to 
pay Mr U £300 in respect of the misrepresentation that took place.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman