DRN-1742159
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund disputed cash withdrawals made from 
his account. 
What happened
Mr H says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling £2,700 were made from his 
Barclays savings account between 14 and 23 September 2019. Mr H has also complained 
about fraudulent cash withdrawals totalling £1,200 made in August 2019 which 
Ive addressed in a separate decision. 
Mr H says that after fraudulent cash withdrawals in August 2019 he cancelled his debit card 
and ordered a new one, which arrived on the 13 September 2019. He explains that he was 
in Spain between the 15 and 23 September 2019 and prior to going away, due to fears about 
the security of his home address, he left his debit card at his parents address  securely 
stored in a draw of a bedside table in his parents upstairs bedroom. Mr H then collected the 
debit card on the morning of the 23 September 2019 after the last disputed transaction. 
Mr H says he noticed the disputed transactions on checking his balance at his local branch 
at which point he reported them to the bank. 
Barclays investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. They said that 
there was no evidence of fraudulent activity and Mr H most likely authorised or carried out 
the transactions because:
The transactions were carried out using Mr Hs PIN, and there was no opportunity for 
shoulder surfing on the 14 September 2019. 
Only one balance enquiry was carried out during the period of the disputed 
withdrawals and this isn't usual behaviour for a fraudster. 
Not all of the available balance was used. 
A fraudster would have needed to take and replace Mr Hs card.
 
As Mr H didnt agree hes asked us to investigate further. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. In summary he wasnt able to 
conclude that the withdrawals had been made fraudulently, and thought it more likely than 
not theyd been authorised or carried out by Mr H. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. So its come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr H liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Mr H says he doesnt understand how his card could have been used to carry out the 
disputed withdrawals when it was stored in the draw of a bedside table at his parents 
address. And hes suggested that the only explanation is his card was cloned. Ive 
considered what Mr H has said, but Im satisfied that the banks technical evidence shows 
that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were used to make the disputed transactions. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to 
hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr H consented to the withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed withdrawals were made via chip and PIN. But theres no plausible 
explanation for how a fraudster could have obtained both Mr Hs card and PIN. 
Barclays have explained that Mr Hs PIN hasnt changed since the account was set 
up, and Mr H says that he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone and only wrote it down 
 in a disguised format  in a diary stored at his home address. For a fraudster to 
obtain Mr Hs card theyd have needed to access his card stored at his parents 
address, without them noticing, and have been aware that Mr Hs PIN was written 
down in a disguised format at his home address. Mr H also explained that his parents 
didnt receive any visitors to their home address until the day after the first disputed 
withdrawal. For these reasons Im satisfied this explanation doesnt seem likely. 
 
Only one balance enquiry was carried out at a cash machine during the disputed 
withdrawals, so the person using the card must have had an idea as to how much 
money was available
It seems unlikely that a fraudster wouldnt have used the opportunity to spend more 
money on the card when there were more funds available. 
 
Mr Hs provided evidence that he was in Spain at the time of the disputed withdrawals. But 
Mr H didnt have to make the withdrawals personally in order to be liable for them under the 
relevant rules. He can still be held responsible for them if he authorised the use of his card. I 
realise this will be very disappointing to Mr H but taking everything into account, I find, on 
balance, that Mr H authorised the disputed withdrawals. It follows that Barclays is entitled to 
hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold Mr H's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.Jeff Burch
Ombudsman