DRN-3660928
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was unsuitably advised to transfer benefits from his defined benefit
(DB) pension into a drawdown plan by Scotia Independent Financial Services.
Scotia were an appointed representative of TenetConnect Services Limited (Tenet) who are
responsible for Scotias advice and answering this complaint. So Ill refer to Tenet in this
decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Tenet advised Mr B to transfer his DB pension in 2006. He complained that he was
misadvised and that he was told about the advantages but not the risks.
Tenet raised objections that this complaint was raised too late which one of our investigators
agreed with. The complaint was referred to me to decide whether we could consider the
complaint.
Based on what Ive seen I consider Mr B already complained to Tenet in 2010 and therefore
within the time limits set out by the regulator. I set out my findings to Tenet and asked for
their comment as well as any further comments they wanted me to consider if we continued
to look into the merits of this complaint. I did not receive a response.
I therefore have seen no reason to change my findings on jurisdiction and have continued to
consider the merits of Mr Bs complaint based on the information provided by Tenet and Mr 
B.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 July 2022 upholding Mr Bs complaint. Tenet asked for 
an extension to respond which was granted but they did not provide further comments or 
evidence within the given deadline. As I have no new evidence to consider, I remain satisfied 
that the outcome I reached in my provisional decision is fair and remains unchanged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator has been clear for years that an adviser should start by assuming a DB
transfer is unsuitable and only consider it to be suitable if they can clearly demonstrate its in
the clients best interest. I cant see any evidence like this here.
The adviser said Mr B was concerned about his DB benefits and the financial stability of his
ex-employers scheme since 2001. In 2003, Tenet undertook a transfer analysis and
subsequently advised Mr B not to transfer his DB benefits. This was mainly because the
transfer value offered at the time was reduced to 75% due to the funding status of the
scheme and the critical yield which needed to be achieved to match his DB benefits in a new
pension was considered too high. Ive seen the advice letter from 2003 which recommended
not to transfer. However, I note it did tell Mr B that transfer values should be requested every
year to see if the transfer value could be achieved.
The adviser said Mr B continued to be concerned that the scheme was in deficit and a 
number of his colleagues were transferring out of the scheme.
In 2006 Mr B contacted Tenet to say a friend told him the pension scheme could soon
change and this might not be to his advantage. Mr B had obtained a transfer value quotation
from his DB scheme. It offered a transfer value of around £178,000 (just short of a full
transfer value of around £180,700).
He had been given a benefits statement with options at immediate retirement (in December
2005) which showed he could have an annual pension of around £13,000 per year (£1,078
per month) or tax free cash of around £29,500 with a monthly pension of around £865 per
month.
Mr B emailed Tenet in June 2006 and asked whether the adviser would recommend him to
take the transfer value or the DB option with a lump sum. He said the adviser should be
bearing in mind he was risk averse on this matter.
Shortly after Tenet wrote to Mr B and told him he could benefit from higher tax-free cash by
transferring and if he took the DB benefits he would be taxed on the income at 40% as he
was still working. By transferring he could also bring the funds under his own control. Their
recommendation was to transfer into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), take tax free
cash and leave the rest invested. He could later buy an annuity or opt for a drawdown facility
in retirement. Mr B followed the recommendation.
I cant see that Tenet did a new transfer analysis in 2006 or properly explored Mr Bs options
here or informed him what he was giving up. I havent seen evidence he required tax free
cash at that point. Although the DB scheme gave Mr B a retirement quote what he could
receive if retired immediately, this doesnt mean he couldnt have deferred his DB benefits
until he retired. He was 53 at the time and wanted to retire at 60. So telling him about the tax
efficiency of taking income immediately was in my view misleading. He could have waited
until he retired and then taken his benefits. His DB benefits would have increased in value by
then as well. I also cant see that he had the required capacity for loss. The DB pension was
a significant part of his retirement provision.
The old transfer analysis in 2003 showed Mr B could get retirement benefits of over £24,000
per year plus a lump sum of around £83,000 at age 60 and over £33,000 per year at age 65
so he was giving up significant guaranteed benefits.
Mr B told Tenet he was risk averse regarding his pension. So I cant see that it was in his
best interest for him to expose it to investment risk leaving him potentially worse off in
retirement.
Its clear Mr B was concerned about the financial status of his ex-employer. However, even if
there was a deficit in the scheme, that in itself is not necessarily concerning. I havent seen
any evidence that his DB scheme was at significant risk of defaulting at the time. The DB
trustees letter accompanying Mr Bs transfer value quotation confirmed the scheme didnt
have enough assets to pay full transfer values but the level of reduction would be reviewed
from time to time. They were making additional contributions to the scheme so reductions
should get smaller.
I can see the transfer value had massively increased between 2003 and 2006 and the value
offered was only slightly under full value. Reduced values were paid to secure ensure full
benefits for remaining members. So this wasnt a bad thing. In my view Tenet should have
provided Mr B with an objective picture. They could have asked for further information from
the scheme about its financial status if required.So overall, I think Tenet should have recommended Mr B to remain in the DB scheme. And
even though he might have been worried about the financial status of his scheme, I think he
would have listened to the advice given by Tenet if his fears about the scheme were
alleviated and a proper comparison of benefits had been given to him.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr B, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for Tenets
unsuitable advice.
Tenet should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date
of the actual calculation.
Mr B took tax free cash in 2006 based on the recommendation of Tenet, however I see no
reason why he would have accessed his DB pension at this age. I think on balance he would
have accessed DB benefits once he stopped working. I kindly requested Mr B to provide
information when he retired and started taking regular income from his pension. He has 
advised he started drawing a pension on 29 November 2016. So when calculating redress 
Tenet should assume Mr B would have accessed his DB pension at the same time.
Tenet may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15%
overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date
Tenet receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of any
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it
takes Tenet to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Im upholding this complaint and require TenetConnect 
Services Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
TenetConnect Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
TenetConnect Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend
that TenetConnect Services Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect
Services Limited. My recommendation is not binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman