DRN-2940530
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided him with 
credit which he feels was unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Barclaycard. In June 2017 his credit limit was increased 
from £2,600 to £3,900. And in April 2018 his credit limit was increased again this time by 
£1,500 to £5,400. Mr B said Barclaycard hadnt carried out sufficient checks as to the 
affordability of the lending. And if they had theyd have seen he was struggling financially as 
he was gambling. He complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard said theyd checked into Mr Bs financial position before implementing the credit 
limit increases. And they hadnt seen anything from those checks that gave them cause to 
consider that Mr B might not be able to afford the credit limit increases at those times. And 
that Mr B could have asked them to reduce his credit limit if he thought it was too high. 
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator found that Mr Bs account had met the criteria for persistent debt and 
Barclaycard had suspended the account. He said Barclaycard had acted fairly and 
reasonably in their dealings with Mr B about his persistent debt. And for the credit limit 
increase in 2017 he said that the checks carried out by Barclaycard were reasonable and 
proportionate, he didnt think theyd lent irresponsibly. But for the credit limit increase in April 
2018 our investigator said Barclaycard should have done more. He said Barclaycard and 
acted irresponsibly in increasing Mr Bs credit limit in 2018. He said to put things right they 
should:
refund all interest incurred after the credit limit was increased in April 2018; and
remove any adverse data from the credit report from April 2018 onwards (if
applicable).
Barclaycard didnt agree, they said the checks theyd considered were reasonable and 
proportionate. And Mr Bs difficulties were due to other borrowing hed taken out in 2019, 
and not the credit limit increase theyd agreed to in 2018. They asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Mr B and Barclaycard has accepted our investigators view that Barclaycard had acted 
reasonably in their dealings with Mr B about his persistent debt. And that Barclaycard hadnt 
acted irresponsibly in increasing Mr Bs credit limit in 2017. So, in reaching my decision I 
need to determine whether Barclaycard acted irresponsibly in increasing Mr Bs credit limit 
further in April 2018.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before increasing the 
amount of credit available to a customer a business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Barclaycard complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them that 
Mr B would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Barclaycard make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Barclaycard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Barclaycard lent to Mr B required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the credit in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Barclaycard need to think
about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Barclaycard to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr B himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to 
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
Section 5.2A.20 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) provides examples of the factors that need to be considered and the circumstances, 
under which, they should be applied.
Barclaycard said before each of the credit limit increases, they looked at how Mr B had been 
managing his account up to that point. They also obtained information from a credit 
reference agency to gain a better understanding of Mr Bs wider financial position. And, 
theyve said there wasnt anything from these checks that caused them to suspect that Mr B 
might not be able to afford the further credit being offered to him. I can see they didnt 
directly contact Mr B to gain an understanding of his monthly income and essential 
expenditure at the times that the credit limit increases were offered.
So Ive looked at the information Barclaycard considered to see if there were any factors that 
could have caused concern.Barclaycard said the data used to assess the application didnt provide the details of Mr Bs 
income, but that it had been validated, not from his current account but from another 
creditor. Prior to the increase to £5,400, the data showed Mr B had external credit 
commitments of around £2,000 and had recently taken out a loan, the data shows he had an  
outstanding loan balance over £13,500. Barclaycard said they wouldnt increase a credit 
card limit unless a G  (green) value was provided under the model of affordability that they 
used. And that this was the value showing at the time they increased Mr Bs credit limit. But I 
can see that the status applied across the analysis carried out by the credit reference 
agency around the time of the credit limit increase only showed G for a couple of instances 
and the remainder was showing either A( amber) or R(red).
As I outlined above it isnt enough just to consider whether Mr B would be likely to pay back 
the additional credit, but the impact this would have on him. I think given the recent increase 
in Mr Bs indebtedness, as hed only just taken out a high value loan of £13,000 before the 
credit card limit was increased. I think it would have been appropriate to ask for further 
customer information at that point. I say this as it would have, on balance, given Barclaycard 
a clearer understanding of Mr Bs financial position. Barclaycard simply relying on third party 
credit reference data I dont think was enough here. 
Our investigator has obtained Mr Bs bank statements, and Ive looked at the three months 
prior to the increased credit limit. The statement for December 2017 to January 2018, 
showed a change in Mr Bs spending as there are a high number of gambling transactions 
being made. I can see in his statement for February 2018 to March 2018 a loan of £13,000 
being paid in which appears to have been for the purchase of a car. But there were fewer 
gambling transactions - two. But the bank statement for March to April 2018 shows Mr B 
continuously using his overdraft. So, I think the bank statements show that Mr Bs 
indebtedness had increased, and his financial situation was deteriorating. And this is 
reinforced by Mr Bs credit card account meeting the criteria for persistent debt by 2019.
Barclaycard said Mr Bs difficulties were due to further borrowing he took out after theyd 
increased his credit limit. But I dont think that was the case. From what I can see Mr Bs 
financial situation changed just prior to the credit limit being increased. And I dont think 
Barclaycard did enough to determine Mr Bs financial situation as to the sustainability of the 
increased borrowing. So, I dont think Barclaycard acted responsibly in increasing Mr Bs 
credit limit in April 2018.  
Where credit has been provided when it shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable 
for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower (if there were any). 
And the borrower would be expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were 
given. So, Id expect Mr B to pay back the funds he was lent  when he used his credit card 
 but not the interest or any other charges it might have applied. Id also expect Barclaycard 
to remove any adverse information it has reported to the credit reference agencies about this 
account.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr B, Barclaycard should :
 rework the account to ensure that no interest is charged on the balance of the account to 
reflect the fact that no credit should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees 
should also be removed; 
 if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Bs account once all adjustments have been 
made Barclaycard should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this;  if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding balance, then 
any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple 
interest on the overpayments from the date they were made until the date of settlement; 
and 
 remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file from April 2018 when the credit limit 
was increased.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I ask  Barclays Bank UK PLC  
trading as Barclaycard to put things right for Mr B by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman