DRN-3026324
The complaint
Mr W complains that a contract for the purchase of the use of holiday accommodation was 
misrepresented to him. Because he paid using his credit card  issued by Santander UK Plc 
 he says that Santander is equally liable with the seller.
What happened
In October 2015 Mr and Mrs W were on holiday in Malta. They were invited to, and attended, 
a presentation. At the end of the presentation they entered into a contract for the use of two 
weeks holiday accommodation. They used Mr Ws credit card to pay £500 of the total price 
of £1,550. They were to take their holiday between January and December 2016.
The terms of the contract indicated that accommodation could be exchanged through a well-
known exchange agency.
In May 2017 Mr and Mrs W contacted Santander through a claims management company. 
Their letter said that Mr and Mrs W had been pressured into buying the holiday. They had 
not used the holiday and the company running the resort where it was sold was in 
liquidation. They were also told that the package was not a timeshare, but it was. They 
sought a refund of the purchase price of £1,550. 
Santander did not think there had been any misrepresentation or breach of contract on the 
part of the seller and did not therefore accept that it was liable to Mr W. 
Mr W referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He was not persuaded that there had been any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract or that the circumstances of the complaint meant that the credit card agreement 
was an unfair agreement. 
Mr W did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender  including a credit card provider. Those 
conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the purchase of the holiday was in part financed by Mr Ws 
Santander credit card. On its face, Mr and Mrs Ws contract was with Bishops Travel Ltd. 
Payment was however to be made to a different company, Salco Services Ltd. Mr Ws credit 
card statement identifies Club Salina Wharf as the payee. It would appear then that 
Santander had arrangements with Club Salina Wharf (which may be a trading name of one 
of the companies involved), but it is less clear whether those arrangements extended to the 
seller of the membership, Bishops Travel Ltd. 
Be that as it may, I have approached this case on the basis that the relationships of 
Santander and the other parties involved did meet the conditions of section 75. I must 
therefore consider the claims against the seller. 
The contract was two pages long. It said that the seller  agrees to allot and the 
PURCHASER agrees to use two weeks of Holiday Accommodation, subject to the terms and 
conditions stated hereunder and on the reverse side of this agreement.
It also included a table saying that the accommodation was for an apartment sleeping a 
maximum of four and that it had to be taken between January and December 2016. 
On the reverse page, a clause requiring Mr and Mrs W to take up accommodation at Club 
Salina Wharf was deleted and initialled. Information about exchanging the accommodation 
for other resorts was included. The terms said that Mr and Mrs W would be issued with a 
booking form and that Club Salina Wharf would then confirm any reservation made or offer 
alternative accommodation. Accommodation and dates were said to be subject to 
availability. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives said that they were pressured into agreeing to the purchase. 
I think thats quite likely. It does not follow however that there was any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract. Mr and Mrs W have not provided any evidence of any attempt they may 
have made to book accommodation during 2016, either directly or through an exchange 
agency. Nor have they said what they were told about the contract which was not true. The 
terms made it clear that accommodation was subject to availability. 
They said too that they were told they were not buying a timeshare product, and that is 
included in the contract terms. There was however no specific property linked to the 
purchase, so I do not believe this was a timeshare deal. Rather, I think Mr and Mrs W were 
paying for one-off holiday accommodation to be identified and arranged in the future. 
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which 
induces someone into a contract. I dont believe that Mr W has identified any statement of 
that nature in this case. Nor do I believe that he has shown that there was any breach of 
contract here. 
The investigator also considered section 104A of the Consumer Credit Act. Under section 
104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider 
whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate 
orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and 
refunding payments. An unfair relationship can arise because of the actions of a credit 
broker and because of the circumstances of a sale financed by the credit agreement. 
I have however seen nothing in this case which might lead me to think that the 
circumstances of the sale would lead a court to conclude that the credit card agreement 
created an unfair relationship. In saying that, I have in mind, amongst other things, that Mr W 
already had and was using the credit card when he and Mrs W made the purchase. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr W has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the seller. Nor is it for me to decide whether there is an unfair relationship under section 104A. Rather, I must consider whether Santanders response to 
the complaint made by Mr C was reasonable in the circumstances. In my view, it was.          
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Santander UK Plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman