DRN-3117823
The complaint
Mr H complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc declined a claim on his pet insurance due to a 
pre-existing condition. Mr H says the treatment was unrelated.
What happened
Mr H contacted his insurer after his pet received treatment for a growth in its ear. But 
Pinnacle declined the claim because it said itd been caused by a pre-existing condition. 
Mr H disagrees. His vet said there had been previous problems with the pets ears but they 
were unrelated. The claim was for a growth which had to be operated on. So Mr H wants 
Pinnacle to settle his claim. 
Pinnacle said Mr Hs claim wasnt covered by his pet insurance policy. Itd looked at the pets 
clinical history. And symptoms had been noted in the ear before the policy had been taken 
out. Pinnacle felt it was clear the pet had ear issues before the insurance cover had started. 
So it was unable to consider Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Pinnacles response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see Mr Hs pet had been treated for a polyp in 
ear between February and April 2021. So he looked at the policy terms and conditions and 
the policy definitions to see if Pinnacle had reached the right outcome.
Our investigator felt it was fair to say the pet had suffered from various ear problems dating 
back to 2017. But he hadnt seen anything to say the treatment received in 2021 was related 
to or had been noted or investigated by a vet before the policy had started. 
Our investigator felt it was reasonable to rely on the vets evidence which indicated they felt 
it was unrelated to any previous condition or treatment. The first record on the pets medical 
history of a growth or polyp was in February 2021. So our investigator felt Pinnacle should 
settle Mr Hs claim in line with the policy terms. And he felt Pinnacle should pay Mr H £100 
for his trouble and upset.
Pinnacle didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Itd obtained an independent review of the medical history and the pet had a long history of 
otitis (chronic inflammation) starting in 2017. 
The type of mass removed from the pets ear was commonly caused by otitis. And as the pet 
had suffered from otitis for many years it was the most likely cause of the growth. So 
Pinnacle felt it would be fair to also exclude any subsequent treatment such as its removal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H took out an insurance policy in July 2019 to help with the costs of his pets health and 
was disappointed when Pinnacle refused to cover the removal of a growth in his pets ear.
Pinnacle says the claim was declined because it was related to an earlier condition. The pet 
insurance policy document says it wont pay for any condition or symptom, or anything 
related to it, that you were aware of or has been noted and/or investigated by a vet, before 
this policy started. 
After receiving an independent view of the pets clinical history, Pinnacle feels the treatment 
claimed for was part of an ongoing problem that existed before Mr H took out the policy. So 
Ive looked carefully at everything Mr H and Pinnacle have said to see if Pinnacle has dealt 
with Mr Hs claim fairly, or whether it needs to do anything more.
Its clear from the pets veterinary records that it has suffered from ear problems for a 
number of years. I can see it was treated for otitis (inflammation in the ear) in 2017. During 
2018 further investigations highlighted waxy build up and infection. And further treatment for 
otitis took place in 2019. 
The pet had ear problems during the following year and in February 2021 the vet identified a 
benign lesion and recommended surgical removal. This took place shortly afterwards and 
the area healed well. 
Pinnacles vet report says the chronic otitis is the most likely cause of the lesion or mass. 
And as such the cost of any treatment including its removal is therefore excluded as the otitis 
existed before the policy commenced. But I dont think thats fair. Although the pet had a 
history of ear problems dating before Mr H took out the insurance policy, theres no record of 
any growth being noted or treated by the vet until 2021.
Pinnacles report states that the chronic otitis was the most likely cause. But that doesnt 
rule out other causes for the growth in the pets ear. The ears were scoped in August 2020, 
after the policy started, and no polyp or growth was noted. 
Further treatment took place in October and November and again no growth was noted, 
although the later treatments dont mention such a detailed examination of the ear canal. 
Although, as the independent report suggests, this type of ear mass commonly occurs due 
to chronic inflammation within the ear canal, the treatment in February 2021 was the first 
time such a growth was noted by the vet treating Mr Hs pet. Theres nothing to indicate 
either Mr H or the vet were aware of, or had treated, a growth before 2021. 
When Mr H submitted his claim form, it contained a section that had to be completed by the 
vet who had dealt with the treatment. The vet has entered 10 February 2021 as the date 
when the clinical signs were first noticed. And the treatment dates range from February to 
April 2021. When asked if the pet had this condition or clinical signs before, or any related 
condition or sign before, the vet has responded no.
While the pet may have suffered from ear problems before Mr H took out the pet insurance 
policy, I dont think, on this occasion, that Pinnacle have done enough to show the chronic 
otitis was the cause of the growth in the pets ear.
Putting things right
It follows that I think Pinnacle has acted unfairly in declining Mr Hs claim. Pinnacle should 
settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And it should 
pay Mr H £100 compensation for his trouble and upset.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Pinnacle Insurance Plc. I direct it 
to put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman