The complaint
Miss P is represented by a claims management company (CMC ) in bringing her complaint. 
The CMC says she was mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy by an adviser from Sun 
Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited in February 1988.
The CMC says Miss P was sold a policy she didnt want or need, particularly as she had no 
dependents at the time of the sale. It says that she should not have been sold a policy 
containing life assurance. The CMC says Miss Ps premiums should be returned to her in 
accordance with the usual redress for mis-sale complaints.
What happened
An investigator at this service said the complaint should not succeed. He said that there was 
no evidence that Miss P received any advice to take out the policy, and therefore he did not 
consider it to be mis-sold. 
Further, he thought that the policy was suitable for Miss Ps circumstances in any event. He 
noted she had children shortly after the policy was taken out. A whole-of-life policy allowed 
Miss P to start building up savings and ensured there would be some financial help for her 
family she was planning on having if Miss P was to pass away. The investigator said the fact 
the policy was put into trust in her children's names straight after their birth shortly after the 
policy began suggested this was what the policy was taken out for.
The CMC disagreed. It said it did not understand how the investigator could have reached 
the conclusion that Miss P did not receive advice, when Sun Life agreed she met with an 
adviser within its final response letter to the complaint. It also said that the adviser had no 
reasonable basis to recommend a unit-linked whole of life policy to someone who had no 
need for any life cover at all, regardless of cost.
Further, the CMC pointed to a decision issued by another ombudsman in a similar complaint 
against Sun Life. In that complaint, the ombudsman had said there was no evidence to 
suggest a young consumer wanted or needed life cover and the cost of this clearly reduced 
the amount of her monthly sums which were invested. The CMC said that in Miss Ps case, 
there was no justification for paying for something she didnt need and losing out on the 
potential investment return by paying for life cover. 
The CMC said that the policy was placed into trust in 1992 didnt alter that it was an 
unsuitable recommendation in 1988. It noted that in other ombudsman decisions it was 
concluded that whole of life policies were mis-sold to single clients with no dependents, even 
when they went on to have children or take out mortgage lending in later years.
Finally, the CMC said that it was aware of Sun Life upholding virtually identical cases to Miss 
Ps so it did not understand why her case should be treated any differently, when it was 
DRN-2030572under an obligation to treat all its customers fairly. 
The investigator clarified he didnt actually dispute that Miss P met with an adviser. He noted 
there was no evidence of any recommendation given to Miss P so it could not be said with 
any certainty whether Miss P had taken out the policy on an advised or a non-advised basis. 
In respect of the decision the CMC had referred to, the investigator said it was not analogous 
to this complaint. That decision concerned the sale of a fifteen-year endowment savings 
policy, not a whole of life policy  and while that case may have involved an unsuitable 
recommendation, he believed the policy was suitable for Miss P. 
Sun Life had no further comments to make. The CMC asked for the complaint to be passed 
to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. I do not believe this 
complaint ought to be upheld. 
I appreciate that the CMC submits Miss P had no need for the life cover provided by the 
whole of life policy, because at the time of the sale she was single and didnt have any 
dependants.
Investment advice became regulated under the Financial Services Act 1986 with effect from 
29 April 1988. Before this date, advisers didnt have to consider if a recommendation was 
suitable for a consumers circumstances. Instead, advisers had to advise with reasonable 
skill and care, ensuring he or she didnt make mis-statements and that material information 
(if relevant) was disclosed. 
I recognise that because of the passage of time, there is little available information from the 
time of the sale. Sun Life has been able to supply a policy application, confirmation letter, 
policy terms and updates Miss P has received during the years before her policy was 
surrendered in 2010. 
From this, I cannot say conclusively whether Miss P received advice -but nonetheless I 
believe that even if she did, the recommendation was a reasonable fit in the circumstances. 
On her complaint to Sun Life, Miss P was asked what she would have done if she hadnt 
taken out the reviewable whole of life policy, and she said shed have used the funds to save 
for marriage or a future property.
At the time of the sale, Miss P was recorded as in her 30s, single and without dependents. 
However, shortly after the policy began, Miss P started a family. And in 1992, she placed the 
policy in trust for her three children.    
Sun Life says Miss P selected a maximum investment basis on the policys application form, 
ensuring a minimum level of life cover and opting to take the policy as a vehicle for savings. 
The CMC says that the inclusion of the life cover means the policy was inherently unsuitable 
(and pre-1988, not a reasonable suggestion). I disagree with that.
The life assurance inclusion was a qualifying requirement, to ensure any gains arising from 
the policy were exempt from income tax. Miss P has said she would have reasonably required a savings vehicle for her future life planning, and I do not believe the inclusion of a 
small proportion of life cover renders the whole of life policy unsuitable for that purpose. 
The CMC makes no other suggestion as to why the policy would have been unreasonable 
for Miss Ps circumstances. And in my view, the policy met her stated needs and I feel it is 
relevant that Miss P went on to place the policy in trust for her children. 
I also note the CMC asserts that other complaints against Sun Life dealt with by differing 
ombudsmen determines that this complaint ought to be upheld. I do not accept that. Firstly, 
the complaints are materially different  the other complaint referred to in the main concerns 
the sale of an endowment savings policy to a young adult.
Secondly, no two cases are factually identical and that an ombudsman or Sun Life may have 
upheld a complaint with similar circumstances does not set a precedent nor does it compel 
me to reach the same conclusion. Instead, I must look at the evidence and reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome by making findings on the specific facts in this complaint. Having done 
so, I do not agree that Sun Life mis-sold the policy to Miss P.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman