DRN-3731413
The complaint
Miss D complains that Revolut Ltd asked her intrusive and unnecessary questions as part of 
a source of funds check.
What happened
Miss D opened an account with Revolut. She says that in November 2021, when she 
attempted to make a large transaction to a cryptocurrency exchange, she was asked to 
verify the source of her funds. Miss D says she sent proof of the funds promptly, even 
though she believed this was invasive and unnecessary because Revolut should have seen 
the funds came from a third party bank. 
Miss D says that even after she sent Revolut the proof of her source of funds, Revolut asked 
her how she was spending her funds. They also asked for details of her cryptocurrency 
account and portfolio details, and they pressed Miss D for this information again when she 
didnt give this information to Revolut. Miss D made a complaint to Revolut. She said she 
wanted to know why she was asked for this information, and if this is part of their usual 
process, then she wanted to close her account immediately and without penalty. She asked 
Revolut for compensation.
Revolut did not uphold Miss Ds complaint. They said that they had the obligation to comply 
with security checks whenever they received an alert on their system and in some cases 
they may need to suspend or block an account. They said this was under clause 23 in their 
terms and conditions. Revolut said that the information about her cryptocurrency account 
was indicated as necessary, however, the information Miss D provided was sufficient to 
meet her account verification, therefore her account was approved and any restrictions were 
lifted. They said to close her account, Miss D would need to reach out to their support team. 
Miss D brought her complaint to our service. Our adjudicator did not uphold her complaint. 
He said the documentation she provided to them, which included documents about the sale 
of her property and proof of her annual income, was reviewed by their specialist team and it 
was decided that this was sufficient. He referenced clause 23 of the terms and conditions 
and he said that Revolut caried out the checks they deemed necessary to ensure that the 
transactions were genuine.
Miss D asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary she said she wanted to know why Revolut had to know exactly what she was 
going to spend her money on and which cryptocurrencies in particular. She said when she 
refused to supply this information, the advisor refused to cooperate, this was despite her 
already supplying documents to clarify the source of her funds. Miss D said the chat agent 
only accepted her confidential documents and gave her account access when she 
threatened to complain about being asked where she was spending her money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Miss D that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and 
as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how Revolut have investigated her 
complaint, such as how they have (or havent) addressed complaint points in their final 
response letter doesnt come under my powers to consider.
Id also like to explain to Miss D that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how 
to run their security procedures (or what to ask for, in order for the business to be satisfied 
they are meeting their regulatory and legal requirements). It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Revolut to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent money laundering. Sometimes they identify and block/restrict accounts due 
to security concerns. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it 
doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive looked at the chat history that Miss D had with the Revolut chat agent. At 14:59 on 26 
November 2021, the chat agent explains that she is contacting Miss D regarding her source 
of funds verification. She provides a weblink which directs her to their website. The website 
states its no secret that Revolut is committed to stopping financial crime at every 
opportunity and one of the ways in which we do this is by following the money trail. While its 
relatively easy to see where the money goes to once it leaves Revolut, uncovering where 
this money comes from before it reaches us is a completely different story  and this is 
where a Source of Funds check comes in handy.
So Im satisfied this sets out why Revolut might need to ask Miss D questions about her 
source of funds and they mentioned they need to follow the money trail. The website also 
states a source of funds check (SOF) is actually just a fancy way of asking you to send us 
some form of proof, to show that your hard earned cash comes from a legitimate source  be 
it from your salary, profits earned from your business, a loan from the bank and so on.
The chat agent was under the impression that Miss D was receiving income from 
cryptocurrencies as she says as you are receiving income from your cryptocurrencies. Miss 
D corrects the chat agent and tells her that she isnt receiving income this way. The chat 
agent then thanks Miss D for the clarification and says that as Miss D is transferring funds to 
a cryptocurrency platform, could she provide the portfolio of the platform showing her name 
and the deposited amounts. 
Miss D declines to do this and the chat agent explains that they are bound to comply with 
strict regulations and for her to provide the requested information, so they could proceed 
further to verify her account as soon as possible. Miss D makes several points and talks 
about making a complaint. When the chat agent responds, she says that she would proceed 
to the next steps of the verification process. 
So I can understand why Miss D may be under the impression that she was asked for 
information which Revolut didnt need. And it was only after she mentioned about making a 
complaint that the situation progressed. But Revolut confirmed in their final response to Miss 
D that they did need the information for their verification process. When they reviewed the 
documents Miss D had already provided, they were satisfied that these documents passed their checks without Miss D needing to provide the further information they asked about 
regarding her cryptocurrency account. 
Ive considered what Miss D has said about Revolut wanting to know exactly what she was 
going to spend her money on. But the chat agent doesnt ask her what she is spending her 
money on (apart from what Ive detailed above specifically about the transferred funds to a 
cryptocurrency platform). Im also not persuaded the chat agent refused to cooperate with 
Miss D as she progressed the verification process. If she had not cooperated with Miss D, 
then I wouldnt have expected the verification process to be progressed.
I know that Miss D wants to know the exact reasons why Revolut asked her for the details 
surrounding her cryptocurrency account including providing her portfolio. But Revolut arent 
required to divulge their security processes to our service. So Im not able to tell her the 
exact reasons for this. I know this will frustrate Miss D. But Revoluts terms and conditions 
do show that under clause 23 that they might prevent you from making payments from your 
account or with your Revolut Card if we're reasonably concerned about its security or that it 
might be used fraudulently or without your permission. We might also have to block your 
account or Revolut Card to meet our legal obligations.
So Im satisfied Revolut acted in line with their terms and conditions, to restrict Miss Ds 
account when they had security concerns. They would then need to ask her for further 
information/documents, to be satisfied that the funds came from legitimate sources and to 
meet their regulatory/legal requirements, to remove the restriction. While the account 
restriction would have been frustrating, Im not persuaded it was excessive. I can see Miss D 
first contacted the chat agent at 14:12. The agent explains the process can take between 10 
minutes and 24 hours. Revolut sent Miss D a message at 18:01 to inform her that her 
account was fully operational, so the process was completed within the timescales given. 
In summary, Im satisfied Revolut have acted fairly by requesting information they deemed 
necessary to review Miss Ds account in order to protect themselves and herself as their 
customer. And they were satisfied that the documents Miss D provided passed their checks 
without her needing to provide the further information they asked her about her 
cryptocurrency account. So it follows I dont require Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman