DRN-2344621
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim on his 
landlords insurance policy.
References to Ageas also includes their appointed agents.
What happened
Mr K let a property to tenants. On visiting the property in June 2019, he found out that a 
neighbour had apparently reported a burglary to police. Police attended and found a 
cannabis farm inside. The property was unoccupied, so the police boarded it up before 
leaving. 
Mr K made a claim and Ageas inspected the property. Extensive damage was noted to the 
building and contents throughout, making the property uninhabitable. As a result, Mr K was 
suffering a loss of rent as he couldnt re-let the property. 
Ageas requested further information, which included a police report. But there were issues 
with this and after lengthy delays and failed incomplete applications, Mr K contacted the 
police in mid-April 2020. He was informed the police were still waiting for the correct 
documents from Ageas. Mr K was unhappy with the delays and raised a complaint. Shortly 
after this, Ageas reviewed the claim again and decided the police report was no longer 
needed. And so, the claim for malicious damage could be settled without it.
Ageas responded to Mr Ks complaint and said the delays had been resolved as they had 
agreed to cover the claim. However, the claim was subject to a £5,000 claim limit for 
malicious damage as outlined in the policy schedule. Mr K disagreed and referred the 
complaint to us. He said Ageas hadnt considered his claim for the contents and loss of rent. 
And initially Ageas had told him the claim would be considered as theft - and not under 
malicious damage which has a lower claim limit.
 
An investigator looked at the complaint and upheld it. She said Ageas had caused 
unnecessary delays when requesting the police report  and this in turn had delayed the 
claim. She also said Ageas had incorrectly applied one policy limit of £5,000, as separate 
claim limits for each malicious damage to buildings, contents and loss of rent claims should 
apply. 
In order to put things right she recommended Ageas pay £500 for the inconvenience caused 
to Mr K, and consider the rest of his claim under the separate policy limits. She also said 
they should request the police report in order to confirm whether any theft issues were noted 
by the police, to ensure the claim was considered in its entirety.
Ageas disagreed with the investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy cover
In their reports Ageas said Mr K raised a claim for Accidental Damage to the buildings and 
contents, and loss of rent  so in order to settle the claim fairly, they would need to apply the 
relevant policy limits to each claim. In order to establish what each of these are and whether 
Ageas have applied them fairly, Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ks policy. 
I can see the policy provides cover for:
-Section 1  Buildings;
oAccidental Damage including malicious damage and theft caused by the 
tenant - to a limit of £5,000;
oLoss of rent as a result of the building becoming uninhabitable following loss 
or damage to the property  to a limit of 20% of the buildings sum insured / 
12-month period after the property became inhabitable;
oTheft or attempted theft caused by violent and forcible entry or exit;
oEmergency Access damage where entry is forced by the police as a result of 
an emergency (limit of £1,000).
-Section 2  Contents;
oAccidental Damage including malicious damage and theft caused by the 
tenant, to a limit of £5,000 in respect of malicious damage and £1,000 in 
respect of theft by the tenant;
oTheft or attempted theft caused by violent and forcible entry or exit.
Ageas have considered Mr Ks claims for loss of rent, contents and buildings under one 
claim limit for malicious damage of £5,000. But I cant see the policy says multiple claims for 
different perils will be restricted in this way. And certainly, I havent seen anything from 
Ageas to suggest this is the case. 
In fact, the terms specify that an Accidental Damage claim can be raised in addition to some 
of the other perils listed in the policy  including loss of rent. In the policy schedule, 
Accidental Damage and Loss of Rent are also listed as separate covers with their own claim 
limits. So, I dont think Ageas have settled the claim fairly or in accordance with the policy 
terms by only applying the claim limit for Accidental Damage to the building to the entire 
claim.
To settle the claim fairly, Ageas must consider each of the perils claimed in line with the 
policy limit that has been specifically referenced for that term, and I comment further on this 
later. And for the avoidance of doubt Ageas must ensure it complies with its duties under 
ICOBS 8.1.1 to;
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help Mr K make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim; and
settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Claim delays
Ageas have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly so, Ive considered how they 
progressed the claim in order to see whether they did this. Mr K raised the claim in June 2019, however Ageas didnt arrange settlement until April 2020. This means it took Ageas 
almost a year to validate the claim - so Ive looked at whether this was reasonable and 
whether there were any avoidable delays.
After their initial report in mid-2019, Ageas said they needed the police report in order to 
continue with the claim. From looking at the correspondence between Ageas and the police, 
its clear the reason the report wasnt received was because Ageas failed to request it 
properly. For example, the relevant form submitted was incomplete or payment missing.
Overall, I think Ageas couldve been more proactive to discuss what was needed with the 
police and ensure the correct documents had been sent, in order to progress the claim more 
quickly. When the report still hadnt been received by April 2020, Ageas decided they had 
enough information about what had happened to settle the claim without it. But it isnt clear 
why Ageas didnt establish this sooner  and this caused delays on the claim that couldve 
been avoided.
Mr K had raised to Ageas that there was a theft at the property and that a neighbour had 
reported a possible burglary. And so, the exact circumstances around what, if anything, of 
his property has been stolen remains unclear. Mr K said he tried to request the Police report 
himself but has been told only Ageas can do this.
Ageas havent seen the police report or spoken to the police about it. And I cant ignore that 
if they had correctly requested the report in the first instance, as originally intended, they 
couldve checked whether the police had noted a theft and the wider circumstances of what 
they saw and dealt with. It seems fair to me that in order to assess Mr Ks claim fairly, Ageas 
should complete the request and check what the report says in order to ensure the claim has 
been settled fairly and in its entirety. But this will also include obtaining evidence from Mr K 
about what property of his was stolen, as he should be aware of this and so could support 
his claim with documentation such as an inventory issued to the tenants.
As a point of clarity, a burglary doesnt always involve the actual theft of property. So, while 
theft is a potential consideration its not the only consideration. Part of the initial report to 
Mr K, and recorded in Ageas records, was that occupants of a vehicle were seen to smash 
the doors in and a window. Then they rushed out. If, on full and proper consideration of the 
claim, its more likely than not third parties caused damage externally then that doesnt 
appear to be within the category caused by the tenant. And so, the £5,000 limit may not 
apply. Damage caused in the process of creating the cannabis farm would though be 
attributable to the tenant as Ageas has treated it so far. Equally, if police caused damage to 
effect entry, in response to a reported burglary, then there may be cover for that.
Putting things right
Claims of this nature will always cause a certain amount of inconvenience and sometimes 
can take several months to resolve, especially when waiting for information from third 
parties. However, Ageas hasnt handled the claim promptly and delays accrued because the 
police report wasnt obtained. And this has meant the potential theft claim hasnt been 
properly considered. 
The delays have had an impact on Mr K, causing him some distress and inconvenience 
which couldve been avoided. He had to wait several months longer than needed to get an 
answer on his claim and it wasnt fully considered. From whats available, including Ageas 
initial estimation that the value of damage repairs was around £30,000, any likely settlement 
wouldnt enable Mr K to fully renovate what needs doing. But earlier payment would have 
enabled him to get more repairs done more quickly and then re-let the property. Having thought very carefully about the circumstances of this case, in order to put things 
right Ageas must do the following:
- Pay Mr K £500 for the inconvenience caused throughout the claim
oAgeas must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
- Obtain a copy of the police report and consider Mr Ks insurance claim fully and 
properly to include;
opotential theft under the contents cover, which attracts a separate limit to the 
£5,000 already paid under the buildings malicious damage section,
opotential theft by third parties after forced and violent entry,
opotential damage caused by third parties (and not the tenants) externally and 
internally
- Consider Mr Ks claim for loss of rent under the separate claim limits outlined in the 
policy terms. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the above.
For the avoidance of doubt, if the parties cant agree the final claim settlement once Ageas 
has considered the claim fairly Mr K can ask us to look at that under a new complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman