DRN-3182887
The complaint
Miss G complains that she was given incorrect advice when she contacted BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services with a request to change her 
payment date.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MFS.
Miss Gs payments were being collected by direct debit on 2nd of each month. In August 
2021, Miss G contacted MFS and asked to change the payment date to 22nd of each month.
MFS advised Miss G that the payment date could only be changed to within 15 days either 
side of the current payment date.
MFS offered to move the payment date as far as it could for September and told Miss G that 
she could cancel her direct debit and make a late standing order payment later on in 
September. MFS said it could then move the payment date to 22nd of each month after that.
Miss G was concerned that making a late payment in September would affect her credit 
score. Following further discussions with MFS, MFS agreed to amend the payment date to 
22nd and said it would email Miss G to confirm this. 
Miss G didnt receive an email, so she contacted MFS again. MFS told her that the payment 
date had been changed to 20th of each month. Miss G said she had requested 22nd. MFS 
changed it and emailed Miss G confirming this.
Miss G was unhappy about how her request had been handled and complained to MFS. In 
response, MFS said it was internal policy that direct debit dates could only be changed by 15 
days, but that it had moved the date of Miss Gs payment by more than this to resolve the 
matter.
Miss G brought her complaint to this service. She wants compensation for the time its taken 
to resolve things.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that although MFS hadnt done anything 
wrong when it told Miss G that it couldnt move the payment date by more than 15 days, it 
made an error when it failed to send Miss G an email when it said it would, and made a 
further error when it told her that the payment date had been changed to 20th of each month, 
which wasnt what she had requested. The investigator said that these errors had caused 
Miss G distress and inconvenience because she had needed to contact MFS several times 
to have this rectified. The investigator said that MFS should pay compensation of £50 to 
reflect this.
Miss G wasnt happy with the outcome. She said shed been given inaccurate advice by 
MFS and said that if shed cancelled her direct debit and paid late as advised, this would 
have affected her credit score. Miss G said she didnt think the compensation reflected the 
time and cost of the phone calls shed had to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. This says that the payment date can be 
changed provided that the new date is no more than 15 days before or after the existing 
payment date.
MFS advised Miss G that it couldnt accommodate her request to change the payment fate 
to 22nd of each month because this was outside the 15-day limit.
Miss G has said she wasnt aware of this restriction on changing the payment date at the 
time of entering the agreement. I can see that the finance agreement contains a specific 
term about changing the payment date. I can also see that Miss G signed the agreement to 
say that she had read and agreed with the terms. So, Im satisfied that Miss G knew  or 
ought to have known  that the payment date couldnt be moved by more than 15 days.
I can see that MFS ultimately moved the payment date to 22nd in accordance with Miss Gs 
request. Its what MFS said to Miss G before it did this that forms the nub of this complaint.
Miss G has explained that shes concerned about having been advised to make a late 
payment. I agree with Miss G that, if she had made a late payment, this might have had an 
impact on her credit file. But in the event, Miss G didnt make a late payment, so theres 
been no negative impact. Whilst I understand that Miss G feels very strongly about the 
advice she was given, Im unable to ask MFS to pay compensation when there was no 
impact on Miss Gs credit file.
Turning to the other service errors  - including MFSs failure to send an email when it said it 
would, and incorrectly changing the date to 20th of each month rather than 22nd, I can see 
that this has caused Miss G a great deal of frustration because shes had to spend time 
calling MFS trying to sort things out. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about the impact that the service errors have had on Miss G. To put things right, 
MFS must pay compensation of £50 to Miss G.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading 
as Mini Financial Services must pay compensation of £50 to Miss G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman