DRN-1990996
The complaint
Ms E has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Privilege account.
Ms E said it was mis-sold as she didnt know she was paying for the account and doesnt 
remember agreeing to it. She also says she was not made aware that alternative fee-free 
accounts were available to her.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered what Ms E and Co-op had said and they concluded that 
the account had not been mis-sold.
Ms E disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that 
to help me decide this case. And having considered everything provided, I dont think the 
fee-paying Privilege account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ms E said that she doesnt remember agreeing to the account. Co-op has provided evidence 
to show that Ms Es account was upgraded to the Privilege account following a phone call 
Ms E had with Co-op. It has also provided evidence to show it sent a letter to Ms E following 
this phone call to confirm that the account had been upgraded.
So I think Ms E did agree to upgrade her account to the Privilege account. I say this 
particular as Ms E, in her response to the adjudicator said she did remember discussing the 
account over the phone with Co-op. 
Ms E has also said that she was not offered an alternative fee-free account. But given that 
she already had a fee-free account at the time of agreeing to the Privilege account, I am 
satisfied that she was aware they were available as an option, if she wanted one.
In her response to the adjudicators assessment, Ms E says Co-op recommended the 
Privilege account to her. Whereas, Co-op says that its sales process at the time was to sell 
packaged accounts without providing a personalised recommendation. Overall, I think the 
account was more likely to be sold on a non-recommended basis. I say this as Ive not seen 
any compelling evidence to suggest that a personalised recommendation was made by Co-
op to Ms E on the basis that it would meet her insurance needs. I note that Ms E says it was 
recommended to her. But I dont find her recollections particularly persuasive, given that she 
did not remember even agreeing to the account prior to the adjudicators assessment. 
Although, I dont doubt, that in selling the account to Ms E, Co-op wouldve pointed out the 
benefits of having the account and mayve used this to persuade her to change her account.
Co-op was required to give Ms E important information about the account, so she 
understood what she was agreeing to. And Ms E has said she was unaware she was being 
charged for the account or what benefits it provided.
Unfortunately, there is very little evidence to indicate what was discussed during the 
telephone call. So I cant say that Co-op did everything it shouldve in terms of providing Ms 
E with all of the important information that it shouldve. 
But Im not persuaded that Ms E wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had 
Co-op given her more information during the call. I say this as I can see in the letter Co-op 
sent to Ms E shortly after the sale, it explained that she would be charged £8.50 per month 
for her account. It also explained that the account provided worldwide family travel cover and 
reminded Ms E to check the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. The letter 
also explained that the first £100 of her overdraft was interest free.
Therefore, whilst this letter may not have gone into detail about all the terms and exclusions, 
it did point out that Ms E would be charged a monthly fee for the account. And it explained 
that it included travel insurance and an overdraft benefit and Ms E chose to keep the 
account after this letter had been sent to her. Furthermore, Ive not seen anything about Ms 
Es circumstances that makes me think she wouldve been unable to benefit from either of 
these features of the account.
As such, taking everything into account, I dont think the Privilege account was mis-sold. On 
the contrary, it seems more likely that Ms E had forgotten that she agreed to the account and 
now feels that its been poor value for money. But that does not mean that Co-op was wrong, 
or that it was unreasonable, to have sold it to her when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman