DRN-3682321
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) have 
handled a claim made under their Buildmark policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs B purchased a newly built property which came with the benefit of a 10-
year Buildmark building warranty underwritten by NHBC.
Mr and Mrs B identified a number of issues with the property straight away, and contacted 
the builder to rectify these. NHBC also began to assess the claim under Section 2 of the 
Buildmark policy. 
At the beginning of 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted NHBC, as they were having difficulties 
with the builder not resolving matters to their satisfaction. NHBC got in touch with the builder 
but as the builder said it was still dealing with the matter, NHBC didnt get involved at that 
point. However, in October 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted NHBC again to complain about 
outstanding items and the quality of the work. Soon after this, NHBC began its Resolution 
Service to try to put things right for Mr and Mrs B.
A resolution meeting took place in December 2020 and further work was agreed for the 
builder to carry out by a deadline of 22 February 2021. The first resolution report indicated 
that only two of the 13 items listed required action to ensure that the build complied with 
NHBCs Technical Requirements. 
In March 2021 another claim was raised and two further resolution reports were produced in 
May 2021. Again, only a couple of items on the list required remedial action to ensure 
compliance with technical requirements. The builder was given until June 2021 to complete 
repairs. 
In October 2021, NHBC decided to take over the builders responsibilities as the builder 
hadnt complied with previous resolution reports. NHBC offered to cash settle the claim and 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the amount offered and the schedule of works. So they 
complained to NHBC.
NHBC responded to the complaint, saying it had investigated matters and was satisfied that 
it had addressed everything fairly and had made a reasonable offer to cash settle the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the information but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Because Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the 
complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see there are numerous issues with Mr and Mrs Bs property, which have been 
evidenced by the several photographs, videos and reports weve received. From the 
evidence provided Im satisfied that considerable work is required to rectify the property to 
the standard that Mr and Mrs B quite rightly expected when they purchased it. And I do very 
much sympathise with Mr and Mrs B, that their property is not yet up to the expected 
standard.
However, my consideration in this complaint can only extend to what NHBC is liable to 
rectify under the terms of the warranty Mr and Mrs B have in place with it. A Buildmark 
warranty doesnt protect a consumer against everything that might be wrong with a home, 
but only against the events outlined in the policy.
So, Ive looked closely at the warranty terms and at the resolution reports provided by 
NHBC. During years 0-2 of the warranty period, the warranty requires the builder to resolve 
any damage or defects discovered in the home which do not comply with NHBCs Technical 
Requirements. If the builder doesnt cooperate or fails to carry out necessary repairs, then 
the insurer can step in and take over in certain circumstances. 
But the terms damage and defects dont refer to everything that could possibly be wrong 
with a new build home. The warranty only covers the Damage or Defects listed and 
defined within the policy. Mr and Mrs B say that there are several structural defects, and 
have provided photographs to try to evidence this. But from the photos I can predominantly 
see aesthetic problems, not structural ones, and theres no report from a qualified 
professional to support what Mr and Mrs B are saying about there being structural problems. 
Without this, I cant agree that there were structural defects with the home which havent 
been compensated for or put right.
For example, Mr and Mrs B say, among other things, that their roof doesnt comply with 
building regulations, namely BS5543. But I dont have enough evidence to support this 
claim, such as an independent report from a structural engineer which might suggest that 
there is an issue with the structural integrity of the roof. And all the resolution reports 
following the various inspections do not confirm that there is a serious structural defect with 
the roof which doesnt meet NHBCs technical requirements. So I cant agree that the roof is 
structurally defective. 
So considering NHBCs obligations during years 0-2 of the warranty period were to 
investigate whether any of the issues with the property meant that it didnt meet its technical 
requirements and to instruct the builder to put things right, Ive looked at the resolution 
reports it produced and Ive noted the following:
The resolution report dated 15 December 2020 set out work for the builder to carry out by 
February 2021. I cant see that NHBC did anything wrong in relation to this report, as its 
responsibility, as Ive mentioned above, was to investigate the defects and set out what the 
builder needed to do to ensure compliance with technical requirements. Im satisfied it did 
this and the onus was then on the builder to carry out the required repairs.
The resolution reports dated May 2021 confirmed that the action required by the builders 
from the previous report had been carried out, and NHBC instructed the builders to carry out 
further work that was required, so Im satisfied it fulfilled its obligations at that time.
In October 2021, when NHBC took the decision to step in and take over the responsibilities 
of the builder, I consider this to have been a fair and reasonable step to take as the builder 
hadnt complied with previous instructions. NHBC decided to offer Mr and Mrs B a cash settlement for what it would cost it to arrange to carry out any outstanding items which it had 
responsibility for under the terms of the warranty. 
As the terms of the warranty allow NHBC to do this, rather than arrange to have the work 
carried out, Im satisfied NHBC didnt act unfairly by offering a cash settlement. It agreed that 
there were several items outstanding that the builder either didnt rectify or that had become 
defective again. And it also said that if the amount offered wasnt sufficient to get the 
required repairs carried out, then Mr and Mrs B could provide NHBC with two detailed 
quotations which NHBC would then consider before reassessing their settlement offer. I find 
this to have been a fair suggestion to make. So, all in all, I dont consider NHBC to have 
acted unfairly here.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, and I can appreciate there are several issues with their 
property which they still feel deeply unhappy about and which have caused them 
considerable stress and anxiety. 
I want to reassure them that Ive considered the many photos, video evidence and written 
submissions theyve provided. But that doesnt mean that the issues theyve raised are 
covered by the NHBC warranty  as the warranty doesnt guarantee that a property will be 
free from all defects. It only provides cover for the things listed in the policy, such as 
structural defects. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont have sufficient evidence to 
satisfy me that the outstanding matters which have been complained about constitute 
structural defects which NHBC is responsible to rectify under the terms of its warranty. It 
follows therefore, that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman