DRN-2395700
The complaint
Mr and Ms F have complained about a life protection insurance policy sold to them by 
Bradford & Bingley Plc. They feel the policy was mis-sold as they say they were told they 
had to take it to get their mortgage approved. They have also said they werent told by the 
adviser how the policy worked.
What happened
Mr and Ms F took out the policy in November 2001. At the same time, they were applying for 
a re-mortgage sum of £71,000 over a repayment period of twenty-one years. The 
recommended policy provided decreasing term assurance and critical illness cover for a sum 
assured and term that matched that of the mortgage.
Mr and Ms F have said that it was only when they had paid off the mortgage and had retired 
that they realised the policy was still in place. They have said they were surprised because 
they thought the policy would have finished when they redeemed their mortgage. Theyve 
said it was only at that point they were told that the policy protected their lives rather than the 
mortgage which is what they say they thought the policy did when they originally took it out.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
couldnt find anything to support Mr and Ms Fs claim that they were told they had to take the 
policy out and she was satisfied the policy was suitable for their needs and personal and 
financial circumstances.
Mr and Ms F didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view the policy had been 
mis-sold. They also added that they now believe they were just sold life insurance and not 
the mortgage insurance they say they wanted at the time of the sale and they feel a with 
profits policy would have been more suitable for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I cant uphold the complaint.
Obviously I wasnt at the meeting when Mr and Ms F were sold the policy so I cant know 
how the adviser explained the policy to them. So while I have taken account of what 
Mr and Ms F have said about being told they had to take out the policy I must also consider 
the documented information I have from the time of the sale.
The point of sale documents appear to have been completed by the adviser along with 
Mr and Ms F at a meeting. It recorded them as living together and taking the re-mortgage in 
joint names. They were both employed and had two dependants. They didnt have any 
savings or investments in place and had no other liabilities. The documents also recorded 
that Mr and Ms F were increasing their borrowing for home improvements and didnt want 
any risks associated with repaying the mortgage. This document also recorded their 
objective as being to obtain the most suitable method of repayment/protection of the 
mortgage.
After this meeting took place a recommendation letter was sent to Mr and Ms F which 
summarised what was discussed and what was decided at the meeting. It also set out what 
the policy was and what types of protection it provided. Mr and Ms F would also have been 
sent the policy information and key facts document of the policy at this time which again 
would have provided them with written details of the policy and would have explained how it 
worked. So while Mr and Ms F have said they werent told how the policy worked these 
documents provided to them covered all of this information. So even if the adviser hadnt 
adequately explained the policy to them I am satisfied that they had the necessary 
documents, which they ought to have read, that did just this so I see no reason why they 
werent clear about the type of protection the policy provided and why it was of use to them.
Within these documents I have also looked for anything that would confirm what 
Mr and Ms F have said about being told they had to take out this policy to get the re-
mortgage they were applying for, but I havent been able to find anything to this effect. 
However, in my view this doesnt make a difference because I think this policy was a suitable 
one for Mr and Ms F and taking it was, in my view, a prudent decision on their part to protect 
them and their family in the event of death or critical illness.
The policy they were sold aimed to provide a lump sum payment upon the death of either 
policyholder that could be used by the remaining family to discharge the debt borrowed 
against the property (the family home). This would mean that they wouldnt have to find a 
way of redeeming the mortgage upon the death of one of the policyholders or find a way of 
meeting the regular mortgage repayments. If this situation arose it would undoubtedly be 
very difficult for the family so it may not be easy for them to make the arrangements to keep 
up the mortgage payment and this policy would allow the debt to be paid in full with no 
further worry. Similarly, the critical illness element of the policy meant that a lump sum 
payment would be paid but this time only if either of the policyholders were diagnosed with a 
critical illness. This would allow the debt to be paid off at a time when one of the 
policyholders would be seriously ill and possibly not able to work.
Therefore, in light of this information and taking account of Mr and Ms F circumstances and 
objective at the time of the sale in my view this policy was suitable for them and provided 
valuable protection for them and their dependants who would be finically affected if one of 
them became critically ill or passed away.
While Mr and Ms F feel that the policy didnt give them protection for their mortgage, I 
disagree for the reasons I have already explained above  it can be seen that the policy, if 
claimed upon, would have protected the mortgage debt in full, in other words would have 
allowed it to be paid off. Also, other types of mortgage protection available at the time would 
have only given them a way of covering the regular mortgage repayments for a limited 
amount of time (usually about six months) if they werent able to work for any reason. The 
full debt would still be in place and would require paying off. This isnt something I think 
would have suitable for them in their circumstances.
Furthermore, a with profits policy which they now feel would have been more suitable for 
them is a policy which involves an investment element so the premiums paid into those 
types of policies and the sum assured, which would be paid upon death, cannot be 
guaranteed. So this wouldnt have been a suitable type of policy for Mr and Ms F given their 
recorded objectives.
I know Mr and Ms F feel it isnt fair they didnt receive a refund of premiums for the time the 
policy remained in place after the mortgage was redeemed but it was their responsibility to cancel the policy. As described in the policy details it was a standalone policy so it should 
have been clear to them that it wasnt directly and intrinsically linked to the mortgage and so 
wouldnt automatically be cancelled upon its redemption. Also, as the policy provided life 
protection its usually always the decision for the policy holders to cancel it or not because 
even without the mortgage in place there would still have been a payment under the policy 
had one them passed away or become critically ill.
Overall, therefore, as I have explained above, I cant find anything in the information I have 
that confirms Mr and Ms F were told they had to take this policy out. And in any event the 
policy was suitable for their recorded needs and objectives from the time of the sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman