DRN-1709689
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) turned down a claim he 
made on a personal accident plan. 
What happened
Mr C has a personal accident plan with AIG which pays out a set amount for specific injuries 
caused by an accident. In November 2016 he had a cataract operation on his right eye. 
During the surgery his consultant noted a tear in the posterior capsule of the eye. Following 
the operation Mr C developed a macular oedema in that eye which was initially treated with 
steroids. He had a further injection into his eye in May 2017. However, Mr Cs vision 
continued to deteriorate and a vitrectomy was performed in May 2018. This improved the 
macular oedema but the vision in that eye remained poor. In February 2019 Mr C was 
advised hed suffered a retinal ischemia in his right eye and that further intervention would 
only result in limited improvement.
Following that in March 2019 Mr C made a claim on his policy for loss of sight. AIG turned 
this down. It didnt believe what happened here met the definition of accident set out in the 
policy which referred to an unforeseen or unexpected event. It believed the surgery and 
medication Mr C had carried risks in line with most medical procedures. And so it didnt think 
the subsequent complications that Mr C experienced were unforeseen or unexpected. But it 
confirmed it would review matters if medical negligence could be shown. 
Our investigator didnt AIG had done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree. He argued there 
had been medical negligence at the time of the original operation, the further injection in May 
2017 and the vitrectomy in May 2018. Mr C said as he was a steroid responder he shouldnt 
have been treated with steroids and provided evidence to show a steroid used in the 2016 
operation wasnt licensed for injection into the eye. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This has clearly been an exceptionally difficult period for Mr C and theres no dispute that the 
vision in his right eye is now significantly impaired. I was extremely sorry to learn about 
whats happened and the understandable impact this has had on his ability to work and his 
life more generally. 
However, the issue I need to consider is whether AIG did anything wrong in turning down the 
claim he made to it. The relevant rules say it should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldn't unreasonably reject a claim. And the terms of Mr Cs policy say:
If you have an accident after the effective date and suffer bodily injury which solely and 
independently of any other cause and within 24 months of the date of the accident causes 
death, permanent disability, burns, specified fractures or specified dislocations we will pay 
the amount shown in the Table of Benefits.
The policy defines accident as:
Accident means an unforeseen and unexpected event which occurs at an identifiable time 
and place whilst the policy is in force.
So for his claim to be considered Mr C needs to show that an insured event under the policy 
has taken place. That means he needs to show an accident which meets the definition in the 
policy has happened (and that caused the injury hes claimed for).  
In this case his claim stems from what happened during a surgical procedure and treatment 
that followed on from that. In deciding whether that meets the definition of accident set out 
in the policy I think its reasonable to consider whether what happened was a known (though 
very unfortunate) consequence of the operation and treatment. Or whether it was 
unexpected and unforeseen  which would be the case if it resulted from medical negligence 
as thats not something a consumer would reasonably foresee happening when agreeing to 
treatment.  
I appreciate cataract surgery is in itself relatively low risk. However, the NHS website 
identifies that problems do occur in some cases. And the medical evidence Mr C provided 
contains a number of references to the cataract surgery on his right eye being complicated. 
Within that evidence is a letter from a consultant who notes that posterior capsular rupture 
can occur during cataract surgery in a small number of cases and that macular oedema can 
occur even after routine cataract surgery but is more common after capsular rupture. So in 
itself I dont think these issues could be said to be unforeseen (as required by the policy 
definition) as theyre a known, if unusual, complication of this type of surgery. 
However, if that condition or the other issues which impacted Mr C werent a surgical 
complication but were caused by medical negligence that in itself would be unexpected and 
unforeseen. I appreciate Mr C strongly believes there has been medical negligence here. 
But I dont think thats supported by the other evidence Ive seen. Theres no suggestion in 
the medical evidence hes provided of negligence on the part of any of the healthcare 
professionals who treated him. And I note his case was reviewed at his request by a 
consultant ophthalmic surgeon in October 2017. I understand she confirmed she had no 
concerns over the treatment provided to Mr C. In addition while I can see a retinal ischemia 
was subsequently diagnosed theres no medical evidence to show this resulted from 
negligence. 
I recognise Mr C has concerns about the steroid treatments that he was prescribed. And I 
can see that in September 2017 his consultant noted that he appeared to be a steroid 
responder so further steroid treatment should not be considered. But I havent seen medical 
evidence to show thats something previous consultants were (or should reasonably have 
been aware of). And while I appreciate Mr C is making a clear link between these steroids 
and the ongoing problems with his eye I havent seen other evidence in support of this 
either. If Mr C is able to obtain a medical opinion in support of his position Id expect AIG to 
consider this but based on the available evidence I dont think hes shown this treatment 
would meet the definition of accident in the policy terms either. 
Mr C has provided evidence to us from the manufacturer of one of the steroid drugs which 
says it isnt licensed for injection into the eye. But it doesnt say that doing so would be 
negligent; it says it would be for the professional judgement of the healthcare professional 
involved as to whether it should nevertheless be used in that way. 
In any case this and other evidence doesnt appear to have been provided to AIG as part of 
the claim Mr C made as its information he only found out subsequently. So it is something AIG would need to consider to see if it made a difference to their previous decision. I note Mr 
C has also made reference to taking legal action against the healthcare professionals 
involved with his case. If he obtains evidence as part of that process which does show 
evidence of medical negligence then Id expect AIG to look again at his claim. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, and based on the evidence that Mr C provided to AIG 
with his claim, I dont think he has shown that what happened meets the policy definition of 
an accident. As a result I dont think AIG treated him unfairly in turning down his claim. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman