DRN-2981308
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has applied 
end of contract charges for damage to a car he returned at the end of a credit agreement. 
He also says that he wasnt told VAT would be applied to the excess mileage fee.
  
What happened
In July 2016 Mr K entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a new 
car. At the end of the four years Mr K could either choose to make an optional purchase 
payment and buy the car or return it. Mr K says that he decided to return it.
In line with the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement the car was inspected, 
and a condition report prepared. Mr K was present when the car was examined and 
disagreed with the inspectors view that there was damage to one of the front alloys that 
would need refurbishment and that due to the size of a scratch to the rear quarter panel this 
would need re-finishing. Mr Ks dispute with the inspectors findings were noted on the 
report. A video and photos were also taken of the car at the time of the inspection.
In August 2020 Mr K received an end of contract invoice from MBFS setting out that the 
damage found on the car amounted to £255 and that there was also an excess mileage fee 
of £1,000.02 plus vat of £200 making a total outstanding of £1,455.02 to pay.
Mr K complained to MBFS about the size of the invoice. He said he disagreed that the 
charges for the damage found on the car were fair. He said that both the damage to the alloy 
and the scratch to the quarter panel fell within what would be considered as fair wear and 
tear taking into account the car was now four-years old. He also said he hadnt been told that 
VAT would be added to any amount charged for exceeding the mileage limit set in the 
agreement.
MBFS didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said that Mr K had been supplied with a copy of the 
Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) when he entered into the agreement so was aware of the 
fair wear and tear expectations for the condition of the car at the end of the agreement. 
MBFS also said that this meant Mr K would have had the opportunity to have any necessary 
repairs carried out prior to the cars return. It said the costs of the repairs were bench 
marked against industry standard guidelines.
MBFS said the damage to the alloy was evident and fell outside the VRS and refurbishment 
was required. It said that the scratch to the quarter panel exceeded 25mm and had 
penetrated the top coat and refinishing was required. This damage also exceeded what was 
set out in the VRS. MBFS said the charges had therefore been properly charged.
MBFS said that under the default charges section on the front page of the agreement it 
clearly set out that an excess distance charge will be payable at the rate of 7.00 pence (plus 
VAT) for each mile. Mr K had exceeded the agreed mileage by 14,286 miles and this 
equated to £1002.02 at 7p per mile and the additional VAT amounted to £200. MBFS said 
the invoice charges had been correct.
Mr K disagreed with MBFSs view and complained to this service. He said that although he 
disagreed that the damage to the car was chargeable, he had offered to pay MBFS 
compensation of £1,000 but it had declined. He said his financial circumstances had 
changed due to the pandemic.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She said that 
looking at the photos of the damage she thought they were more than fair wear and tear 
when applying both the VRS used by MBFS, and the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines which are recognised as setting the industry standard as 
to what is and isnt fair wear and tear on vehicles returned at the end of credit agreements.
Our investigator also said that the agreement had set out clearly that VAT would be added to 
any excess mileage fee if incurred. She said that MBFS should work with Mr K to set up a 
reasonable and affordable payment plan.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the hire purchase agreement Ive seen that under the heading Damage it says 
that You will maintain the vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the attached Vehicle 
Returns Standards which form part of this agreement. And although this section is on page 
three, I think its clearly set out and easy to find. I think its reasonable to have expected Mr K 
to have read the agreement before he signed it. By signing it Mr K has shown he was he 
was content to be bound by its terms and conditions.
Ive seen both a video and photos of the condition of the car taken at the time it was 
inspected. Im aware Mr K was present at the inspection and disputed the damage charges 
from the beginning. Ive also seen that Mr K feels the photos make the damage look worse 
than it was, but I dont have any other evidence to compare with the photos and video that 
have been provided. And I think the damage to the alloy and the quarter panel shown in the 
video looks the same as that in the photos, so I cant reasonably say that the photo evidence 
isnt reliable. I am accepting the damage was as shown in the photos.
Ive looked at both the VRS operated by MBFS and the BVRLA guidelines which are 
accepted as the industry standard to be used when assessing a car returned at the end of 
credit agreement. Although I accept the car was four-years old, I think applying the BVRLA 
guidelines is fair when assessing the condition of the car Mr K had returned. Ive seen that 
both the VRS and the BVRLA guidelines are in agreement that the damage found on Mr Ks 
car was beyond fair wear and tear.
Looking at the damage to the alloy, Im satisfied this is outside what would be considered fair 
wear and tear as there are scratches and scuffs that exceed 25mm.Ive also seen that Mr K 
accepts that this is damage resulting from kerbing and while I appreciate this type of 
damage is common the amount of damage to the alloy falls into the unacceptable category 
for the VRS. This is also consistent with what the BVRLA guidelines say about what would 
fall outside what would be considered fair wear and tear. I think MBFS has acted fairly to 
charge for this damage.
Looking at the scratch to the quarter panel, I can see this exceeds 50mm in length and has 
gone through the top coat. This is beyond fair and wear tear as set out in both the VRS and 
the BVRLA guidelines. Again, I think MBFS has also acted fairly in charging for this damage.Mr K has said that he is unhappy to be charged for repairs that were never undertaken. But 
under the agreement there is no requirement that MBFS repairs the vehicle and then seeks 
reimbursement. Damages to a car may have an impact on its re-sale value and these 
charges are compensation to MBFS for the car being returned to it with damage outside fair 
wear and tear. So, although MBFS may not have had the car repaired it was still entitled to 
charge Mr K for the damage found to the car.
I appreciate Mr K says he was only told that the excess mileage fee was 7p per mile and that 
he was unaware VAT would be added. I dont know what was said to Mr K when he entered 
into the agreement, but I think the agreement is clear VAT will be added to any excess 
mileage charge. As set out above, I think its reasonable to have expected Mr K to have read 
the agreement before signing it. This information isnt hidden as it appears on the first page 
of the agreement.
Im sorry that Mr K has suffered a change in his circumstances due to the Covid situation. 
However, that in itself doesnt make the end of contract charges he has received unfair or 
that MBFS has acted unreasonably in applying these charges to his account. What I would 
expect is that MBFS now discusses with Mr K how the invoice can be paid and that a 
reasonable and affordable payment plan be agreed.
So, for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I would ask that MBFS 
discusses with Mr K how the end of contract charges can be paid and looks at setting up a 
reasonable and affordable payment plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman