DRN-3361951
The complaint
Miss R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc will not refund £300 that she sent in error, even 
though it said it would be able to recover it. 
What happened
In June 2021 Miss R made a transfer of £300 using the banks mobile app. Unfortunately, it 
seems that she selected the wrong recipient and the money was transferred to the wrong 
account.
Miss R says she contacted Clydesdale Bank almost immediately and was told that the 
payment would be reversed. When Clydesdale Bank contacted the recipients bank, 
however, it said that its customer did not consent to the money being returned. Clydesdale 
Bank could not therefore reimburse Miss R. It did however pay her £70 to compensate her 
for the fact that it had misled her into thinking the money could be recovered. 
Miss R referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that Clydesdale Bank had done enough to resolve matters. It had taken steps to 
recover the money but had been unable to do so because the recipient would not agree to 
its return.
Miss R did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that the payment here was not fraudulent. Miss R authorised it and was 
not tricked by a third party into making it. She simply made a mistake in the instruction she 
gave to the bank though its app. In such circumstances, a customer is not automatically 
entitled to a refund. Thats reflected in Clydesdale Banks terms and conditions, which say 
that no refund will be provided if a customers payment instruction is incorrect.  
I would however expect a bank to take reasonable steps to recover funds paid by mistake. I 
believe that Clydesdale Bank did that here, by contacting the recipients bank to say that 
Miss R had made the payment in error. It could not however compel that bank or its 
customer to return the funds. 
It is of course unfortunate that Miss R was led to believe that the money would be returned. 
Clydesdale Bank should have made sure that it fully understood the situation before saying 
that. Once the instruction to make the payment had been given, however, it could not be 
revoked. 
I note as well that Clydesdale Bank gave Miss R information about other steps she might 
consider to try to recover the money and offered to request information about the recipient. I 
do not believe it could reasonably be expected to do any more. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Bank Plc to do any 
more to resolve Miss Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman