DRN-2747552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that a car they took on hire purchase from Go Car Credit Limited 
was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs B took a used car from Go Car Credit under a four-year hire 
purchase agreement. At the time, the car was around seven years old and had covered 
nearly 97,000 miles. 
Within a few months Mrs B reported problems with the car. There was mould in the interior 
and the engine was juddering and misfiring. 
Mrs B says that repairs were attempted at a garage she chose because it was reasonably 
close to her. Spark plugs and coils were replaced but this did not resolve the issue. A later 
diagnosis indicated that the cars timing chain might need replacing. The dealership offered 
to meet half the cost of that work; initially, it was thought that would cost more than £1,100, 
but the dealership later obtained a quote of less than £700. Mr and Mrs B did not accept the 
offer; they said the problems with the car had arisen within six months of delivery that they 
should therefore be able to reject it. They were not persuaded in any event that replacing the 
timing chain would fix the issues with the car. 
The dealership and Go Car Credit sought advice from the Motor Ombudsman, which 
indicated that the offer was fair. It does not appear however that Mr and Mrs B had any input 
in that discussion, so in my view it is of limited value to me in considering this complaint.    
By around October 2019 Mr and Mrs B had stopped making payments to Go Car Credit; the 
car was returned in January 2020. Mr and Mrs B complained to this service and one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. She didnt think that Go Car Credit had treated 
Mr and Mrs B unfairly. She noted that a timing chain may well need to be replaced during a 
cars lifetime, but in any event the settlement offer was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator 
did.
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality  that is, of the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the 
circumstances. Those circumstances include in this case the cars price, mileage and age. In 
my view, it was quite likely that the car would need some work done on it during the hire 
purchase agreement and possible too that some of that work might be costly. Its not 
unusual for a timing chain to need replacement after around 100,000 miles and sometimes 
sooner  although I accept that many will last longer than that.
Mr and Mrs B were within their rights to arrange for repairs at a garage of their choice. 
Unfortunately, however, that meant that the dealership did not have an opportunity to put 
things right or to inspect any faults that arose. As a result, the evidence about what repairs 
were needed is unclear and in some respects contradictory. I have therefore approached 
this case on the basis that the timing chain needed replacement and that this fault emerged 
within a few months. As I have indicated, however, I do not believe that was unexpected in 
the circumstances and so I cannot say that this meant the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
The other issue Mrs B has described is that of mould in the cars interior. She has provided 
photographs which clearly show it. There is however no conclusive evidence of the reason 
for it  for example, a leak. There are a number of possible reasons for damp  and 
therefore mould  in a car. In the circumstances I do not believe I can safely conclude that 
this was down to a fault which was present at delivery. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that Go Car Credit has not acted unfairly. I 
do note however that Mr and Mrs B have said that they are struggling to make payments, so 
I would remind Go Car Credit of its obligations towards customers who may be experiencing 
financial difficulty.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Go Car Credit Limited to do anything more to resolve 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman