DRN-3091931
The complaint
Miss Os complaint is about the information National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
recorded on her credit file after it closed her accounts.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In summary, in July 2020, NatWest gave Miss O 60 days notice of closure of her accounts 
with it. This included a current account with an overdraft facility of £12,000 which Miss O had 
been using. NatWest made a formal demand for repayment of any funds owed to it. In 
September, once the notice period had expired, it sought recovery of the overdrawn balance 
through a debt collection company. 
Miss O is unhappy that NatWest didnt attempt to engage with her directly before passing 
her information on to a debt collection company. She says she called NatWest several times 
between July and September to discuss making arrangements to repay the outstanding 
balance and was told the bank would contact her once her accounts were closed. Miss O 
says that she expected some sort of negotiation and a repayment plan directly with NatWest 
before it involved a third party. To resolve matters, she wants NatWest to rectify the 
information it has recorded on her credit file  including the default that was registered in 
January 2021.
NatWest states that it would not have contacted Miss O again when the closure letter it sent 
her in July 2020 provided all of the necessary information regarding repayment of any 
outstanding balance. It says the letter also explained the bank would follow its normal debt 
recovery procedures if any funds owed to the bank werent repaid by the end of the notice 
period. NatWest has been able to locate one phone call that Miss O made on 18 September 
2020. Only part of the call recording is available. It says it is sorry if Miss O was provided 
with incorrect information when she called and adds that even if Miss O wanted to set up an 
arrangement to repay the debt, this would not have prevented a default from being recorded. 
NatWest says a default would only not be reported if Miss O had repaid the debt in full within 
60 days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss O feels very strongly about her complaint. I also appreciate that having a 
default can have far-reaching effects. For me to conclude that NatWest acted unfairly in 
recording this information on her credit file, Id need to be satisfied it did something wrong.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Ive reviewed a copy of the letter dated 17 July 2020 that NatWest sent to Miss O. It 
states that her accounts will be closed at the end of the 60-day period and, amongst 
other things, any overdraft facilities will be withdrawn at the end of this period. The 
letter goes on to state that any funds owed to the bank need to be repaid by then and 
NatWest will follow its debt recovery procedures should any outstanding balance not 
be cleared by the end of the 60 days. This includes the reporting the performance of 
Miss Os accounts to credit reference agencies. I consider the letter makes it 
sufficiently clear that NatWest sought a full repayment of Miss Os overdraft by the 
end of the notice period. It also explained what would happen if Miss O didnt clear 
her overdraft.
I acknowledge Miss Os point that NatWests letter doesnt explicitly state a default 
would be applied if the overdraft isnt repaid in full within the 60-day period. But as 
the investigator explained, and I agree, the letter does explain the status of Miss Os 
accounts would be reported to credit reference agencies if outstanding funds arent 
repaid within this period. It goes on to highlight the implications of an account being 
in default and explains that this may impair Miss Os ability to obtain credit or other 
financial facilities elsewhere for a period of up to six years. It is my judgement that 
NatWests letter made it sufficiently clear that recording a default was a possible 
outcome if any outstanding balance wasnt repaid within the notice period.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has published guidance on the 
reporting of defaults and other information to credit reference agencies. In brief, it 
suggests that lenders should register a default between three and six months of 
arrears. NatWest gave Miss O until the middle of September 2020 to repay her 
overdraft in full. Although subsequently she entered into a payment arrangement with 
the debt collection company to pay £100 a month, strictly speaking Miss Os account 
was in arrears as the overdraft needed to be cleared in full by the end of the notice 
period. A default was then registered on 31 January 2021, once the account had 
been in arrears for more than three months. This is in line with the ICOs guidance, 
so Im satisfied NatWest acted fairly in this regard.
Miss O believes that NatWest has deliberately withheld call recordings and 
incorrectly claimed that she didnt get in touch to discuss the repayment of her 
overdraft. Shes recently provided our service with a call log from her mobile network 
provider which covers the period between August 2020 and October 2020. I thank 
Miss O for sending us this information which Ive considered carefully. Theres no 
doubt that she contacted NatWest at least twice within the 60-day notice period  first 
on 21 August and then on 4 September. Unfortunately, NatWest was only able to find 
a call which took place on 18 September when it enquired its systems and searched 
for calls made from the same mobile number. A call recording of only the first part of 
this call  with the adviser on the general helpline before the call is transferred to 
another department  is available. Its unfortunate that NatWest has been unable to 
locate the other calls. And I appreciate that Miss O believes it has provided incorrect 
information. But NatWest is a regulated business and is required to comply with the 
rules set by the UKs financial services regulator. This includes co-operating with this 
services investigations. I havent seen anything that leads me to think it deliberately 
withheld information. Rather, I consider that NatWest only provided information that it 
was able to find. 
I accept that its possible NatWest told Miss O someone would be in touch at the end 
of the notice period when she called. Ive been unable to listen to the calls, so its 
difficult for me to understand the context of the discussion that took place. Miss O 
has told us she was looking to set up a payment arrangement. If this wasnt 
acceptable to NatWest  it was seeking a full repayment by the end of the notice period  it is possible that Miss O was told to wait to be contacted if she had called 
looking to discuss a payment arrangement. If this did happen, then strictly speaking 
the information she says she was given isnt wrong. But even if this didnt happen 
and NatWest did provide incorrect information, from what Ive seen I dont consider it 
would have made a difference to the overall outcome. I say this because Im not 
persuaded Miss O would have cleared her overdraft in full within the remainder of the 
period. Im mindful that she was looking to set up a payment arrangement when she 
called. This suggests that she didnt intend on fully repaying her overdraft within the 
60-day period. Ive also kept in mind that although a default wasnt registered until a 
few months later, I cant see that an attempt was made to clear the overdraft during 
this time. Miss O says she first learnt her account would be defaulted when the debt 
collection company contacted her. I consider that there was an opportunity to fully 
repay the overdraft between then and when the default was ultimately registered. 
Miss O states that this situation wouldnt have come about if her account had been 
up and running. But the account terms and conditions, which form part of the contract 
between Miss O and NatWest, entitle NatWest to close an account by giving at least 
60 days notice. Here, it made a commercial decision to close Miss Os accounts and 
communicated this to her. So, NatWest acted in accordance with the agreed terms 
and conditions. Im sorry to learn about the issues Miss O says shes experiencing as 
a result of the information NatWest has recorded on her credit file. But given the 
overdraft wasnt repaid in full within the notice period and the account was in arrears 
for several months, I cant fairly conclude it was wrong of NatWest to subsequently 
register a default on her credit file. 
In summary, although I recognise its likely that Miss O will disagree with my findings, I dont 
consider NatWest acted unfairly in how it reported information on her credit file. Accordingly, 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman