DRN-3901675
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on his 
motor insurance policy. Mr R complains that his car was returned to him with additional 
damage not caused in the accident. 
What happened
Mr Rs car was involved in an accident where a third party damaged the front bumper of it. 
Because of this, Mr R called Advantage and claimed on his motor insurance policy. 
Advantage reviewed the claim, accepted it and repaired Mr Rs car. 
When Mr Rs car was returned to him, he said the rear bumper had damage which wasnt 
there before. He also said the quality of repairs to the front of his car was poor. Advantage 
reviewed the poor repairs and additional damage and accepted it was responsible for them. 
However due to the cost to repair Mr Rs car, Advantage said it would instead deem his car a 
total loss and pay him the market value. Mr R didnt think this was fair and complained. 
Advantage reviewed the complaint and maintained its position but offered to pay Mr R £350 
compensation. Mr R wasnt happy with Advantages response and referred his complaint 
here. 
Mr R was then involved in another accident, which also wasnt his fault. Advantage let us 
know that it would record this new accident as notification only and would pay Mr R £2,200 
as the market value of his car. Advantage reached this figure by reviewing motor valuations 
guides, it also waived Mr Rs excess and deducted £180 for damage that pre-dated the first 
claim. It also said if Mr R wished to retain the car it would deduct £484. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found the Advantage had reached a fair and 
reasonable valuation by offering Mr R £2,200. However, he thought Advantage should 
increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience to £500. 
Advantage agreed to our investigators outcome. Mr R didnt agree. He said he reluctantly 
accepted the total loss valuation of £2,200 but thought Advantage should increase the 
compensation to £1,000. 
As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, like most policies we see, give Advantage the 
right to take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might 
make a decision Mr R disagrees with. But wed look at whether Advantage made a 
reasonable decision in doing this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the 
case. Mr Rs policy says in the event of a claim for loss to his car it will either; pay cash in 
lieu of repairs, replace the car, repair the damage, or pay Mr R the market value of the car 
immediately before the loss. 
Advantage has shown that when Mr Rs car was involved in the first accident that it would 
normally be deemed as whats known as a total loss. Instead, Advantage chose to repair 
Mr Rs car. Following this, the repairs werent completed correctly, and additional damage 
caused. While this is disappointing to see, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Advantage 
to deem Mr Rs car a total loss in this particular case. I say this because Mr Rs car met the 
criteria for being deemed a total loss from the initial accident. And while Advantage has 
caused more damage, this has only occurred because Advantage didnt deem the car a total 
loss as it could have originally. Im therefore satisfied Advantage are acting fairly and 
reasonably by now deeming Mr Rs car a total loss. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy say that if Advantage deem his car a total loss, it 
will pay him the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing your Car in 
the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, 
model, age and condition.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant motor valuation guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on 
nationwide research of sales prices.
Ive looked at the four motor valuation tools we use, and theyve given values ranging from 
£1,759 to £2,380. As Advantages offer is within the range of these guides and Ive not be 
provided with sufficient evidence to show the value isnt in line with the valuation guides. Im 
satisfied Advantages valuation is fair and reasonable. 
Ive noticed that when Advantage reached this figure it made a deduction of £180 for other 
damage to the car which wasnt caused by Advantage or in the first accident. Advantage has 
said this is due other unrelated damage to the rear bumper. While Im not satisfied 
Advantage has shown what this damage is or whether the deduction is fair, Im not going to 
tell it to pay any more. I say this because Advantage has offered £2,200 as the valuation for 
Mr Rs car. As this figure is towards the higher end of the range, even if I was to find that this 
hadnt been fairly applied, I wouldnt conclude that Advantage hadnt ultimately reached a 
value which is fair and reasonable. Im therefore not going to tell Advantage to pay any 
more. 
Ive also considered the impact of Advantages poor handling of Mr Rs claim. Its meant hes 
had the loss of expectation of having his car repaired and had the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience of having to have his car inspected upon discovering the poor repair and 
additional damage. To compensate Mr R for this, Advantage needs to pay him a total of 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive also noticed that Advantage has said it will amend its records for the first claim to reflect 
it being a total loss and record the second claim as notification only. Considering the time 
between the two claims, and that if things had been dealt with correctly, the second claim 
would be recorded as non-fault. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to record the second 
claim as notification only in this case, so Im not going to tell Advantage to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to:1. Pay Mr R £2,200 as the market value of his car, if not already done so
2. Pay Mr R £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
3. Record the second claim as notification only
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman