DRN-2577694
The complaint
Mr M complains that transactions placed with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not 
execute as he thought they should and has suffered a financial loss. Mr M is looking for 
Barclays to refund him £3,600 which he says he has lost.
What happened
Mr M held an execution only account with Barclays which contained a stock which I will call 
Company A. On 20 July 2020, Mr M placed an order to sell 10,000 shares in Company A 
with two conditions attached  a stop value of 225p and a stop limit of 224.99p.
Mr M says that the price moved below 225p, but the stop loss order did not trigger and he 
called Barclays. During this call, the price rose and Mr M set up another stop loss order for 
218p. Mr M says that the price dropped to 200p and the stop loss did not trigger.
Mr M says that he tried to sell at this point but wasnt successful so placed another stop loss 
order for 180p. The sale went through at 180p. Mr M says that the sale should have 
triggered at his original stop loss price of 225p.
Mr M complained to Barclays but they did not think that they had done anything wrong and 
the system had worked as designed. Barclays did not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Unhappy with Barclays decision, Mr M referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator didnt think that Barclays had made 
any error and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr M has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I will explain why I have reached this decision.
Mr M was using a stop order when he was selling his shares. A stop order is described by 
Barclays as:
This is an Order you may give us to buy or sell a Security when the price of that Security has 
been reached or passed. Stop Orders will only be Executed by us when the conditions set 
by you related to your Order have been met. This means that at the point a price equal to 
your Stop Price has been reached or passed for the Security specified, the Stop Order will 
be Executed by us as an At Best Order. If the Stop Price is not communicated to us by the 
relevant market or exchange in the period specified in the Order, the Order will lapse.
A stop order will generally be used to provide some protection if the price of a stock moves 
and the client wishes to buy or sell at a particular price.
Barclays have said in their submission that the market conditions of the first order meant that 
the order did not trigger. They said the price that Mr M had input was not held for the time 
which would have allowed them to execute the instruction. The price of 224.99 was achieved 
but for one second. This would not have been enough time to execute the deal.
Barclays have said that the second order did trigger but did not execute. They said that 
when they attempted to trade, they could not find a market counterparty who was willing to 
execute the trade.
I have looked at the terms and conditions for the service. They say:
Normally any Order placed will be Executed at the time of receipt or fulfilment of conditions 
subject to market, exchange or Order conditions. Not all Orders will be Executed. An Order 
is monitored by us and presented for Execution when its conditions are met unless it expires, 
is cancelled or rejected or not accepted by a Counterparty. 
We will maintain our record of the date and time that you place an Instruction and all relevant 
price movements between when the Order is placed and when it is dealt, rejected, cancelled 
or expires. These records will be conclusive when determining whether an Order should be 
dealt, if challenged. Demand for the service and market conditions may fluctuate. We do not 
accept any responsibility for any actual or potential financial loss or expense you incur if for 
any reason (other than our negligence) there is a delay or change in market conditions 
before Execution of your Order. 
Although I sympathise with Mr M that his stop order limits were met, the first limit price was 
not available for the length of time which would have allowed Barclays to send the order to 
the market for execution. The second limit was met but Barclays could not reach a market 
counterparty to execute the instruction.
Both events are covered by Barclays terms and conditions and although Mr M would have 
seen his price limits met, I cant say that Barclays have acted unfairly.
In his submission to the service, Mr M has said that he had another instance where his stop 
loss was not triggered on an instruction, but Barclays refunded him. Mr M feels that its 
because of the value of this complaint that they are not refunding him. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr M Im only able to look at the evidence presented on this complaint and its own merits.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman