DRN-2692487
The complaint
Miss S complains that her secured loan balance will not be repaid in full by the end of the 
term. She complains about the outstanding balance GE Money Home Finance Limited have 
said she owes, as she doesnt believe its correct.
What happened
Miss S took out a secured loan in 2005 with a lender that later became GE Money. The loan 
was due to end in October 2020. 
Miss S fell into difficulty with her loan payments and arrears built up on the account. In 2010 
the court issued a Suspended Possession Order, which set out what Miss S would need to 
pay in order to avoid repossession. Following this, Miss S made further payment 
arrangements with GE Money, to ensure the monthly payments were met and the arrears 
were cleared.
In 2016, Miss S complained to GE Money, as she said they hadnt been able to explain the 
interest applied to her loan, why the arrangement she had made with them would not satisfy 
the loan by the end date, and there were some anomalies on her statement. 
GE Money issued a final response letter on 22 March 2016. This letter explained that the 
payment arrangements Miss S had agreed to would result in the arrears being cleared 
before the end of the term. But they also said there was still a fees and additional interest 
balance of £7,813.78 which was not included in the arrangement. GE Money said that as a 
result, if this balance isnt reduced then it may still be outstanding on expiry of the loan. The 
letter gave referral rights to our service, and explained Miss S had six months to refer her 
complaint.
Later in 2016 Miss Ss loan was transferred to a different lender, who Ill call Lender A. 
Miss S also made a complaint to Lender A.
Miss S contacted our service in June 2017 asking us to look into things. She was concerned 
that the additional fees and interest balance was a result of GE Money not following a final 
decision made by this service in 2013, in which we instructed GE Money to refund some 
legal fees. GE Money didnt give our service consent to consider the complaint, and said it 
had been referred outside of the six-month time limit they gave in their final response letter.
I issued a decision setting out what parts of Miss Ss complaint our service could consider. I 
decided we couldnt consider Miss Ss complaint that the loan would not be redeemed by the 
end of the original term due to the fees and additional interest balance that had accrued. But 
I said we could consider GE Moneys explanation of Miss Ss loan balance between March 
2016 and July 2016, as that period was after the final response had been issued, and before 
the loan had been transferred.
GE Money explained that no fees had been added to the loan account between March and 
July 2016. They did say that three different types of interest had been applied to the account. 
Contractual interest had been charged on the balance as per the credit agreement. 
Additional interest also accrued on the part of the balance that was higher than it should 
have been due to the arrears and interest that hadnt yet been paid in line with the credit 
agreement. Simple interest was also applied to any fees and charges that had been applied 
to the account.
GE Money said the statement sent to Miss S in March 2016 confirmed there was an 
additional £7,063.21 added to the account due to it being subject to arrears fees and 
charges. GE Money also confirmed that in November 2013, they removed 75% of fees 
applied (£5,306.25) as recommended by our service, as well as the interest charged on 
these fees (£2,421.52). 
Our investigator looked into things and explained she was persuaded GE Money had 
managed the account correctly during the relevant period. She was satisfied the fees 
balance wasnt included in the arrangement to clear the arrears and so remained 
outstanding. She said Miss S should liaise with Lender A about how this could be repaid.
Miss S disagreed with our investigators view. She provided more information about the 
history of the account and the charges that had been added over the years. She still wanted 
us to consider that the loan should have been repaid by the original end of term date.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Miss Ss concerns stem from a long history of her dealings with 
GE Money in the past, the scope of this complaint is only considering how GE Money 
administered her loan between March and July in 2016.
When a loan is agreed, the total amount of interest charged over the term of the loan is 
calculated based on the assumption that each monthly payment will be made on time. When 
this is the case, and the loan is being paid on a capital and interest repayment basis, the 
loan will run as per the agreement and should be fully repaid at the end of the term. 
However, if the monthly payments are missed or not made on time, this will affect the 
amount of interest, and other charges, that are applied over the term of the loan, as the 
balance hasnt reduced as expected.
 
GE Money have explained how they were administering Miss Ss loan account from 
March 2016 until the loan was transferred. They were applying interest to the outstanding 
balance  which included the monthly interest amount calculated at the start of the loan, plus 
additional interest on the balance that should have been repaid but hadnt been. As the 
outstanding balance was higher than it should have been, Ive satisfied it was fair for 
GE Money to charge interest on that borrowing yet to be repaid.
 
An additional balance had also accrued on Miss Ss account which was made up of the fees 
and charges applied as a result of the payment arrears. GE Money were applying simple 
interest to this balance too  as it was still money owed by Miss S that had been added to 
the balance and was yet to be repaid. 
Ive looked carefully at the transaction history for this period, and Im satisfied GE Money 
were administering Miss Ss loan in the way Id expect. I can see there were no additional 
fees or charges applied during that period, only the interest as Ive explained.
 GE Money also sent Miss S quarterly arrears statements in March and June 2016, which set 
out the outstanding balance and the interest that had been applied, as well as a final 
statement in July 2016 setting out the account position before it was transferred.
Overall, Im satisfied that between March 2016 and July 2016 GE Money administered 
Miss Ss secured loan fairly, and in line with what Id expect. They also gave her information 
about her balance, the arrears, and the interest that had been applied. As a result, whilst I 
appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss S, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman