DRN-2338664
The complaint
Mr M complains the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed his account without notifying 
him. Mr M is represented in this complaint by his brother Mr M2.
What happened
At the end of January 2020 Mr M applied for and opened a current account with RBS. He 
said he received a welcome back, debit card, and PIN along with welcoming emails. On 20 
February he received a statement for the account indicating to him the account had closed. 
Mr M said he was confused by this as he hadnt requested closure of the account nor had he 
been informed by RBS either by text, email or letter that it had closed his account. 
He said according to the statement the account was closed 14 days previously, yet no 
notification had been received. All letters and emails he had received so far from RBS had 
been to the contrary of the statement. Mr M complained to RBS. He wanted to know if the 
account was open or closed, and if closed, why RBS had done so and why RBS had failed 
to notify him of its closure.
In its final response RBS said it appreciated it had given Mr M mixed messages and 
conflicting information since he applied for an account. It had decided to close Mr M's reward 
account earlier in the month but by that point it had already sent the debit card and 
paperwork to Mr M. RBS said it should have sent Mr M a letter to let him know. It apologised 
he didn't receive this and for the confusion caused. It said it wasn't under any obligation to 
discuss the reason behind its decision.  
Mr M wasnt satisfied so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator noted RBS 
had apologised to Mr M that he hadnt received correspondence confirming its decision. She 
thought it didnt need to do anything further. Mr M didnt agree and asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but having done so I wont be asking 
RBS to do anything further. 
The bank is entitled to decide who it has a relationship with, and the account terms and 
conditions set out the circumstances in which it can close accounts. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to several reasons, and a 
bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. RBS said it has relied on the terms and 
conditions when closing Mr Ms account. Ive read them and considered whether it fairly 
applied them and Im satisfied it did.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. And in this case 
RBS exercised its right to no longer offer Mr M banking facilities.  
Mr M is unhappy that RBS did not inform him of the closure and sent him the welcome pack 
and card instead. I can understand why this would have caused confusion. RBS said it had 
already sent the card and paperwork to Mr M just prior to its decision to close the account. In 
its final response it acknowledged that Mr M should have received a letter from it concerning 
the closure and he didnt so it apologised to him. 
The account was only open for one day. There were no payments, direct debits or standing 
orders set up. Mr M discovered the account had been closed when he received the 
statement after two weeks, so he hadnt used or tried to use the account and didnt suffer 
any financial loss. I can see that Mr M was confused and while I acknowledge RBS should 
have confirmed the closure in writing, it did apologise to Mr M that he didnt receive it. I think 
this is a fair outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman