DRN-4143539
The complaint and what happened
Mrs C complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plcs The Mortgage Works (UK) Plcs 
conveyancer made a catalogue of mistakes in its handling of her re-mortgage during the 
summer of 2021 which cost her both money and extreme stress and inconvenience. Whilst 
originally she had raised concerns around the cancelling of a direct debit to another 
business, and difficulties that has caused her, she has now confirmed that does not form 
part of this complaint.
As The Mortgage Works is responsible for its conveyancers actions, I will simply refer 
throughout this decision to TMW when talking about the business against which this 
complaint is brought.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from May 2023, which form part of 
this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning to 
uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I didnt think TMW had compensated Mrs C 
for the delays it had caused in this transaction.
I asked both Mrs C and TMW to let me have any more information they wanted me to 
consider. TMW has accepted my provisional decision and its findings. Mrs C has responded 
in some detail, and believes that TMW should be required to pay more than I had set out in 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, and Ill reiterate why, but first Ive included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision:
What happened
I will only provide a brief summary of events in this section, as a detailed timeline is not 
necessary to reach and explain my findings, and would indeed be unhelpfully lengthy.
Having opened a prospective file at the end of June 2021, on 6 July 2021 TMW made 
Mrs C an offer of a buy-to-let mortgage and its conveyancer began the necessary work 
to conclude the transfer from the existing lender at that time (Business B).
During a phone call from Mrs C on 2 August 2021, a TMW agent told her that they were 
waiting for the redemption statement from Business B, and would chase it. Mrs C asks 
whether she will be making her August mortgage repayment to TMW, rather than 
Business B, and the agent says she will. But the agent also advises Mrs C not to cancel 
her direct debit to Business B, and discusses how she will get a refund if ultimately she 
has paid too much after completion.
Its clear there were a few queries which led to some delays, notably around the address 
of the property on the title deeds. In fact, it appears to have taken over a month for those 
queries to be satisfactorily resolved. But once that happened, it would appear that TMW 
in fact requested a redemption statement from Business B on 8 September 2021. Not 
before 2 August 2021 as Mrs C had been advised on the phone.
Following multiple contacts by Mrs C and her financial adviser, Business B provided 
Mrs C with a redemption statement which she forwarded to TMW on 23 September 
2021.
It would seem that TMW didnt immediately explain to Mrs C that it would be unable to 
use and rely upon that redemption statement, as it needed one sent directly to it by 
Business B. Ultimately TMW contacted Business B again on 30 September 2021, and 
apparently received the necessary redemption statement (dated 30 September 2021) 
on 4 October 2021. On 5 October 2021 TMW explained to Mrs C why it hadnt been 
able to use the redemption statement forwarded by her on 23 September 2021.
On 6 October 2021 TMW requested £1,338.71 from Mrs C to complete the mortgage 
transfer. She says both she and her financial advisor believed the amount requested 
was incorrect and so requested clarification from TMW. She says that the breakdown 
received from TMW was inaccurate and that she queried it, but ultimately paid the 
£1,338.71 on 8 October 2021 in order to prevent further delays. On that same day 
TMW requested a further £137.90 from Mrs C, in order to cover daily interest for an 
additional week to allow for completion. She made a second payment on that day, and 
says that she had to borrow money in order to do so.
The mortgage completed on 13 October 2021, and Mrs C was advised by TMW that 
she was due a refund of £675.92. Ultimately TMW refunded Mrs C what she was 
owed.
On receiving Mrs Cs complaint, TMW accepted that it had, caused delays by not 
requesting or chasing the redemption statement as proactively as it ought. It also 
agreed that its, level of response to [Mrs Cs] requests for information and return 
calls [had] fallen below its own expectations. Consequently it paid her £100 as 
part of the apology and a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs C came to our service. The investigator looked at the 
evidence and thought TMW didnt need to do anything more. Mrs C disagreed and asked 
an Ombudsman to look at her complaint.
To be clear, I am only able to comment on the actions of TMW within this complaint. Mrs 
C has already received a final decision from another Ombudsman in relation to a 
complaint she raised against Business B.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
When considering the potential loss to and impact on Mrs C, and the key points of her 
complaint, I think it is easiest to think about three distinct issues, which I will deal with in turn.
Did TMW mislead Mrs C into believing it was OK to cancel her direct debit to Business B at 
the start of August 2021?
In short, no, I dont believe I can reasonably hold TMW to account for Mrs Cs action in 
cancelling that direct debit.
I accept that on the call on 2 August 2021 the TMW agent said that the transfer was in hand; 
the redemption certificate awaited; and that Mrs C would be making her August mortgage 
payment to TMW and not Business B. None of that transpired to be accurate information. However, the TMW agent also told Mrs C that they advise customers to, never cancel a 
direct debit, before completion of the transfer, and that instead Mrs C should anticipate a 
refund from Business B post-completion.
Whether Mrs C relied on advice from any other businesses in making her decision to cancel 
her direct debit I cant comment on. However, I think its clear that TMW advised her not to do 
so, despite its false optimism about the timeline for completion. So I cant hold it responsible 
for her decision and its ramifications.
How long were the delays caused by TMW, and what was the financial loss associated with 
those delays?
During the course of this investigation, TMW has accepted that it delayed the completion of 
this transaction for five days. Those days are 3-8 September 2021, a period of time during 
which it says it should have requested the redemption statement from Business B, but didnt.
It has identified that Mrs Cs mortgage with Business B came with an interest charge to her of 
£27.58 per day, and that the new mortgage with TMW was much cheaper at £15.22 per day. 
The difference between the two therefore being £12.36 per day. If Mrs C disputes those 
calculations, I invite her to let me know in response to this provisional decision.
I dont accept that TMWs errors and omissions led only to a delay of five days across this 
transaction. As set out in the what happened section of this decision, there were multiple 
occasions when TMW failed to promptly chase the redemption statement, along with failing to 
give Mrs C the accurate information she needed to potentially expedite things herself.
TMW itself accepts that it would normally expect the statement to have been requested by 
Friday 3 September 2021 at the latest. A reasonable estimate of turnaround time would be 
around five working days, meaning that, had things gone as they should have, I would have 
expected TMW to chase Business B on Monday 13 September 2021 when it wasnt received. 
In fact, it didnt do so for 17 days. So I find it is fair and reasonable to hold TMW accountable 
for 17 days of delay, and the additional interest paid by Mrs C over that timeframe. Subject to 
any further comments on the daily interest calculations set out above, I estimate that amount 
to be around £210.
I have also thought carefully about what happened between TMW receiving the redemption 
statement on 4 October 2021 and the re-mortgage actually completing on 13 October 2021. 
But at this stage I havent seen evidence of unreasonable or unfair delays in that time period. 
It is normal for funds to be requested from the borrower at this stage in order to secure the 
completion, and although Mrs C didnt accept TMWs breakdown of the funds requested, I 
dont think TMW are responsible for delaying matters at this point.
Did TMW make a mistake in the funds it requested from Mrs C at the start of October 2021?
Its clear that both Mrs C and her financial advisor were surprised at the amounts requested 
by TMW on 6 and 8 October 2021. It is worth highlighting that such requests at this point in 
this type of transaction are always based on estimates, as the exact date of completion 
cannot be accurately predicted and so the sums payable to various parties cannot be 
confirmed in advance.
Mrs C and her financial advisor believed the breakdown of the amount provided by TMW was 
incorrect. Although how they could have been certain of that is not clear to me, based on the 
inevitable estimates involved. As previously mentioned, TMW refunded Mrs C £675.92 on 27 
October 2021. I dont have clear evidence to say whether, therefore, TMW made a clear and 
egregious mistake in the amounts it requested at the start of October 2021, or whether it 
acted reasonably in its estimates, and both the requests and the refund were fair. If it did 
make an egregious mistake, the most likely remedy I would direct would be for TMW to pay 
Mrs C 8% simple interest on the difference (i.e. £675.92) for the 19 days (8-27 October) of 
which she was deprived of that amount. I estimate that remedy to be less than £3.00.The only circumstance under which I might direct anything different is if Mrs C could provide 
clear evidence that she had to borrow £675.92 in order to pay the incorrect amounts to TMW, 
and that she was charged more than 8% simple interest for the relevant 19 days. And that 
remedy could only be applicable if there was also clear evidence that TMW had acted 
unreasonably and made a mistake when requesting those amounts.
Therefore I invite both parties to provide any further evidence and submissions on this point 
before I write my final decision. But as I dont at this point have clear evidence of a mistake on 
TMWs part here, Im not provisionally directing any redress.
Mrs C has raised several points in response to the provisional decision, which I will deal with 
in turn.
Mrs C emphasises that she believes she was repeatedly lied to by TMW, and the emotional 
impact that had on her. I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude it lied deliberately, but as 
already set out, it is clear that it gave her misinformation at times. And that misinformation 
prevented her from understanding the true picture of progress with the transaction, and 
limited her ability to ask the right questions in an attempt to expedite things. I consider that 
poor service to have been remediated by the £100 compensation awarded by TMW.
Far more important is the extent to which mistakes by TMW caused a delay to the 
completion of the re-mortgage, as this is where Mrs Cs potential financial losses lie. Mrs C 
characterises that delay as being about three months  from the start of July 2021 when she 
received the mortgage offer, to 13 October 2021 when it was completed. I dont agree. Such 
transactions are never instantaneous and moving to a new mortgage lender will always 
entail a large amount of administration, which is not uncommonly protracted as a result of 
the large sums involved and the concomitant checks. Such checks and processes typically 
take longer with leasehold properties, such as Mrs Cs, due to complexities arising from the 
lease.
Mrs C highlights that she was repeatedly told by TMW that it had requested the redemption 
statement from Business B from the end of July onwards. I am satisfied based on the 
available evidence that it is more likely than not that TMW did not request it until 8 
September 2021, and accept that Mrs C was misinformed on this point. I say that despite a 
letter written to Mrs C by Business B on 22 September 2021 stating that, no formal 
request has been receivedup until 21st September 2021 which I think is most likely a 
mistake. Thats because in the recording of Mrs Cs call with Business B on 21 September 
2021, the agent discusses at some length that the request for the redemption statement was 
received by them on 8 September 2021 and forwarded to a specialist team who did not 
seem to have actioned it.
Therefore I continue to conclude that TMW requested the redemption statement from 
Business B on 8 September 2021, no earlier or later. But that doesnt necessarily mean that 
TMW ought to have requested it at the end of July, or in August, and that therefore this in 
itself caused delays. TMW accepts it ought to have requested the redemption statement by 3 
September 2021, a date which Mrs C queries. To clarify, as discussed in my provisional 
decision, TMW has set out that the queries about the address of the property on the title 
deeds caused a delay. It has provided dates evidencing that this was first raised with Mrs C 
on 30 June 2021, and that in fact it was not until 1 September 2021 that the relevant sign off 
was obtained from the underwriter to proceed. It appears to me that for much of July 2021 
TMW was gathering and/or waiting from information from Mrs C on this issue, and that for 
much of August 2021 TMW was liaising with the underwriters to get confirmation that it was 
OK to proceed based on that information. So I dont think it is unreasonable that TMW would 
expect its staff to have requested the redemption statement from Business B within two 
workings days of that final sign off being obtained on 1 September 2021. That brings things to 3 September 2021.
So I dont agree with Mrs Cs assertion that TMW delayed matters by three months and cost 
her thousands in additional mortgage interest. The transaction took three and a half months, 
and was very stressful: but not all of that was as a result of mistakes by TMW. Indeed, I was 
sorry to hear of a range of other difficulties in Mrs Cs life around the time in question, which 
undoubtedly made dealing with this transaction even more trying. But those difficulties are 
unrelated to TMW and its actions. Mrs C has offered no new evidence which dissuades me 
from my provisional findings, for the reasons set out therein, namely that it is fair to attribute 
a delay of 17 days to TMWs failings.
Mrs C has raised the question of her existing mortgage deal, which is due to expire at the 
end of July this year. She feels it is fair that is extended to reflect the length of time it took for 
this transaction to conclude. However, this is not something that I am directing. To clarify, 
fixed term mortgage products such as this one have a fixed end date for all customers  so 
some may, in fact, apply for the rate at the very start of its launch and end up benefiting from 
it for slightly more than the nominal term (two years here). And some will apply later and 
benefit from it for slightly less. The completion date of the mortgage has no bearing on the 
end date of the fixed term product. As already established, the evidence leads me to the 
conclusion that Mrs C ought to have benefited from this fixed term product 17 days earlier 
than she did. And as a result, I have directed that TMW must compensate her for the 
additional interest she paid over those 17 days. The fixed rate product cannot be extended, 
and the losses attributable to TMWs actions have been dealt with as described.
Mrs C hasnt provided any fresh evidence in relation to the sums requested from her by 
TMW in early October 2021. She says that the fact that she ultimately received a refund of 
nearly £700 proves that she didnt need to pay as much as she did to TMW. That is true, and 
is pretty much always the case, because the final amount needed can only be estimated 
until the day of completion. Therefore it is not uncommon for refunds to be due, as 
conveyancers need to ensure that they have enough funds to complete the mortgage. So, 
the question is whether there is evidence that TMW made a mistake and/or acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the sums it asked for. Or whether those requests were a reasonable 
estimation of the amounts it expected to have to pay to various parties in order to complete 
the transaction. I continue to have no evidence of TMW making a mistake, as opposed to a 
reasonable estimate. So I have no basis on which to make an award in respect of that.
Having reconsidered all the evidence provided by both parties, for the reasons explained, it 
follows that I uphold this complaint on the basis set out in my provisional decision
Putting things right
In order to put Mrs C back in the position she would have been in but for its mistakes, I direct 
TMW to do the following:
A) Pay Mrs C the difference in interest between her mortgage with Business B and 
the mortgage with TMW to cover a delay of 17 days.
B) Make a payment of 8% simple interest* on the amount in A), calculated from 26 
September 2021 to the date of settlement. 26 September 2021 represents a 
reasonable estimate of when this mortgage would have completed, but for the 17 
delays caused by TMW.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TMW to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.For clarity, this award is in addition to the £100 TMW has already paid to Mrs C. Although it 
has more recently said that the £100 included five days worth of additional interest, it didnt 
say that at the time of its response to the complaint. It described the amount as an apology 
and a goodwill gesture, and given the stress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C by 
TMWs mistakes, I consider £100 to have been a reasonable amount to compensate her for 
that
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman