DRN-2752621
The complaint
Mr H complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold his pension plan. 
He doesnt consider that the terms and conditions of the plan were ever explained to him.
What happened
Mr H said that in 1987 he was advised to transfer out of his employers pension scheme by 
Phoenixs predecessor. He was advised to transfer into a with profits Section 32 Buy Out 
policy.
His policy was taken out in September 1987 when his benefits were transferred. His new 
policy provided a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) of £1,891.38 each year from age 65.
Mr H called Phoenix in January 2020 and March 2020 to ask about his policy options. He 
wanted to access his pension so he could start a new business. Phoenix said they 
responded in January 2020 and in March 2020, explaining why Mr H couldnt take benefits 
until age 65. And in April 2020 Phoenix said they told Mr H that the minimum pension 
requirement meant that early retirement wasnt possible. And neither could he transfer his 
policy to another provider, as the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) was insufficient to 
cover the GMP. 
Unhappy, Mr H complained to Phoenix in April 2020. He said that the restrictions to his 
options from the policy were never explained to him in detail when the policy first started. 
And that if hed known he wouldnt be able to access his policy until reaching age 65 he 
wouldnt have agreed to the transfer. He felt the policy had been mis-sold.
In their June 2020 final response letter, Phoenix said in respect of the mis-sale complaint 
that the policy had been sold before the introduction of the Financial Services Act in 1988. 
So sales werent subject to the same rules as after this time. In relation to the restrictions on 
Mr Hs access to the policy benefits, Phoenix said that there are no records to show what 
was discussed at the sales meeting. But that Mr H wouldve been given a copy of the policy 
conditions at the point of sale as well as a copy of the policy schedule. They apologised that 
Mr H was unhappy that he couldnt take the benefits of this policy yet. But said that they 
could only pay his pension when they could provide him with a pension at least equal to the 
GMP payable from 65. And as his fund value didnt cover the cost of providing the GMP from 
age 65 he couldnt take early retirement.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response, so he complained again in June 2020. He said 
Phoenixs customer service hadnt been good. And he said that when Phoenix took over his 
policy from the original provider they shouldve contacted him to go over the terms and 
conditions. He also felt that Phoenix had mis-sold him the policy as theyd taken it over in 
2012, after the introduction of the Financial Services Act in 1988.
Phoenix issued a further final response letter in July 2020. They said that when they took 
over the policy, they wrote to all policyholders and advised that there wouldnt be any 
change to the terms and conditions. They said that the letter also explained that 
policyholders could contact them if they had any queries about the change. Phoenix said 
that as the policy was sold before the Financial Services Act came into force on 29 April 
1988, the sale wasnt subject to the same rules as after this time. But they said that there 
was a duty of care. And that the terms and conditions of the policy wouldve been given to 
Mr H at the time.
They said theyd listened to calls between Mr H and Phoenix. And that they felt the call 
handlers had all been courteous and helpful. Theyd also reviewed the correspondence 
theyd sent to Mr H and felt it was accurate and issued in a timely manner. Phoenix also said 
that they stood by their complaint response of June 2020 in respect of Mr Hs options.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered whether the correct 
advice process had been followed at the time of the sale. He also considered whether Mr Hs 
lack of access to his policy benefits until age 65 was correct. And whether this had been 
made clear to him when he took out the policy. He also considered the customer service Mr 
H had received. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that the policy hadnt 
been mis-sold. Although he acknowledged that the lack of access to his pension was 
frustrating, he didnt consider that Phoenix had been unfair or unreasonable when theyd 
explained this restriction. He considered that the sale of the policy had been made in line 
with guidance at the time. And that the terms of the policy had been communicated to Mr H. 
He acknowledged that it wouldve been frustrating to hear from customer services that there 
were restrictions on access to his pension. But didnt think that the customer service Mr H 
had received had been unreasonable.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that his policy had been mis-sold at the start 
through the original provider. And then again when it transferred to Phoenix after the 
introduction of the Financial Services Act in1988. He said that because the policy was 
transferred after the introduction of the Financial Services Act, the contents of the new policy 
with Phoenix shouldve been discussed with him. And his circumstances shouldve been 
considered. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will disappoint Mr H. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
I first considered the regulatory requirements on the 1987 sale of the policy. As the policy 
was sold before The Financial Services Act came into force, at the time of the sale, the only 
requirements on the original provider were:
Not to make negligent mis-statements;
Where information was given, to disclose all material information, and
Where advice was given, to advise with reasonable care and skill
As our investigator stated, this service must assess complaints about advice in line with the 
guidance that was set out at the time the advice was given. Mr H didnt agree with our investigator that the original provider acted in line with the 
guidance of the time when they sold him his policy. He didnt believe that advising someone 
with no knowledge of pensions to transfer from a company pension scheme to the Phoenix 
policy showed care and skill. He felt that the pension advisor simply took advantage of him 
to gain commission. And that hed been given bad advice to transfer the pension from his 
former employers scheme. 
But from what Ive seen  in particular the point of sale documents that have been shared 
with this service - Im satisfied that enough information was provided to meet the guidance in 
place at that time. So Im satisfied that the original provider acted reasonably, and in line with 
the guidance of the time, when they sold the policy. So Im not persuaded that the policy was 
originally mis-sold.
I acknowledge that part of Mr Hs complaint is that he when his policy moved to Phoenix in 
2012 he feels Phoenix shouldve discussed the policy with him at that time. He believes that 
they shouldve taken account of his personal circumstances and what policy wouldve suited 
his needs at that time. And he considers that this means that Phoenix didnt act within the 
Financial Services Act when they transferred his policy. But unfortunately thats not the case. 
The original policy was taken out in 1987. And therefore I can only consider the 
requirements at that time. Although the policy did transfer in 2012, this was only an 
administrative transfer, not an opportunity for a policy revision. So I dont agree that Phoenix 
acted unfairly when they didnt take Mr Hs personal circumstances into account in 2012. 
Phoenix said the policy terms and conditions wouldve been provided to Mr H at the point of 
sale. But Mr H said: I have asked for a copy of the terms of the policy on several occasions 
to be told that the documentation has conveniently been lost. He noted that our investigator 
had said that this service had been provided with a representative copy of the terms of the 
policy that Phoenix said he wouldve been given in 1987. But Mr H said that: there is no 
trace or proof of any documentation issued to me. I acknowledge that this service has only 
been provided with a representative copy of the terms of Mr Hs policy. And I agree that we 
have no proof that these terms were issued to him at the time of the sale in 1987. 
Unfortunately, its impossible to know for certain whether the terms were issued or not. But, 
on balance of probabilities, I consider that its more likely than not that the terms and 
conditions of the policy were issued. 
I next reviewed the policy terms and conditions.
The policy terms and conditions
Phoenix said that when Mr H transferred his benefits, the pension promise he had under his 
former employers pension scheme was also transferred. So the policy had to provide a 
pension of at least £1,891.38 each year at 65. Phoenix said that the policy schedule Mr H 
was given at the time of the sale clearly showed that the GMP was payable at 65. They 
apologised that Mr H couldnt take policy benefits when hed wanted to. But said that their 
obligation to provide the GMP meant that they couldnt pay out at an earlier pension date.
Ive carefully reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see if this position is correct. 
Section 8 covers the Preservation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension. It says: At the date 
the annuity commences the amount of the annuity payable to the Annuitant shall be not less 
than the Guaranteed Minimum Pension revalued to State Pension Age. So the CETV would 
have to be more than sufficient to cover the GMP revalued to age 65 in order for early 
retirement to be permitted under the policy. 
Its also worth noting that pension providers have a statutory requirement to provide GMP benefits at state pension age. This remains true even if the value of the pension is too low to 
purchase those benefits. And therefore providers cant allow benefits to be taken earlier 
unless the GMP benefits can be provided. 
I also note that the point of sale documents signed by Mr H state his 65th birthday as his 
pension date, but then note the following: (Subject to any prohibitions in the Policy 
Conditions reduced benefits may be taken on retirement . At any time within the period of 
15 years immediately preceding the pension date). So the point of sale documents indicated 
that there may be restrictions to Mr Hs ability to access his policy benefits before his 65th 
birthday.
Phoenix also sent Mr H statements over the years, explaining his policy benefits. Ive seen a 
letter dated December 2013 which stated: A transfer cannot be allowed if, at the time of 
payment, the transfer value of the policy is less than the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of any GMP liability held under the policy. 
In summary, under the terms and conditions of the policy, Mr H is only entitled to access his 
policy benefits if the CETV is sufficient to cover the GMP. And if the CETV doesnt cover the 
cost of providing the GMP, early retirement isnt possible. Unfortunately, Mr Hs policy value 
doesnt meet this requirement. So early retirement isnt possible. From what Ive seen, this 
restriction was explained in a number of documents that Phoenix sent to Mr H. So Im 
satisfied that Phoenix were correct when they told Mr H that he couldnt take early 
retirement. Or access any cash from the policy.  And Im also satisfied that this information 
had been provided to Mr H in a number of communications over the years since the policy 
started. 
In the previous section I said I was satisfied that the terms and conditions of the policy had 
been provided at the point of sale. Having reviewed those terms, Im also satisfied that the 
details of Mr Hs policy were clearly explained.
I next considered Mr Hs complaint about the customer service he received.
Customer service
Mr H said Phoenixs customer service hadnt been good. He said: I have no faith in Phoenix 
whatsoever and any conversations I had with them to try and get information from them 
regarding the selling of the policy was always met with negativity and them even stating they 
couldn't assist me in any way because they had lost all records.
Phoenix said they reviewed their correspondence with Mr H since February 2020. They also 
listened to calls hed made to them on 20 January 2020 and 22 April 2020. This service 
asked Phoenix to provide copies of those calls, but that wasnt possible. So Ive had to rely 
on Phoenixs summary of those calls and the written information Ive seen. 
Based on what Ive seen, all correspondence was issued in a timely manner. And Ive seen 
no inconsistencies or incorrect information. Ive found no evidence that there was anything 
wrong with the customer service Mr H received. I acknowledge that he was unhappy with 
what he was being told, but Ive seen no evidence of poor customer service. Or that the 
information he was given was incorrect. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold 
this part of Mr Hs complaint. 
In summary, I acknowledge that Mr H is disappointed that he couldnt access his policy 
benefits when he needed to. But Ive found no evidence that Phoenix could or should have 
allowed access to those benefits before Mr H reaches age 65. Unfortunately this means that 
I it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman