DRN-4193341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they were reassured by their mortgage broker, London and 
Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) that the interest rate they wanted was secured. But they said 
it wasnt, the offer expired while they were providing evidence to support extra borrowing.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J wanted to take out some additional borrowing with their existing mortgage 
lender. They said they could show some upcoming expenditure on home improvements, 
including building work. They engaged L&C to secure this lending for them, and they told us 
they paid a fee of £999, which was to secure a fixed interest rate of 1.12% over four years 
for their borrowing. It took some time to gather all the information that their lender wanted to 
support their borrowing, but they said theyd checked if this rate was locked in. And they said 
they were clearly and unequivocally told that there would be no problem with the rate.
Mr and Mrs J pointed us to an email dated 24 January 2022 where L&C told them
..the secured rate is 1.12% and there is no reason that we should lose this rate due
to any delay in receiving the quote for works.
Mr and Mrs J later found that their rate would no longer be honoured by the lender, because
the initial mortgage illustration had been made over six months earlier. They would have
needed to complete the application by late April, to obtain the offered rate.
They said that they had to take out a mortgage at a much higher fixed rate, at 2.90% for five
years. Mr and Mrs J said this had clearly ended up costing them much more than expected,
they were paying a little under £6,000 per year in additional interest. Also, they had intended
to pay off their mortgage at the end of the fixed interest rate period, and that would now
happen a year later than planned. So Mr and Mrs J wanted L&C to cover those additional
costs, plus compensation for the time and stress this complaint had taken up.
L&C said that what happened wasnt its fault, because Mr and Mrs Js lender had never told
it that the illustration it had sent them would only be honoured for six months. It stressed that
the delay in completing the application wasnt its fault, it was only because Mr and Mrs J
needed to get more detailed quotes for the home improvements they were planning.
L&C said it now understood the application needed to be completed by 22 April, but it was 
still going ahead with the application after this time, and the lender hadnt made it aware that 
it would no longer honour the rate. In fact, the lender said it was underwriting the application 
in May, then in June told L&C that there had been an offer. But the lender then said that this
was wrong, the application had timed out.
L&C said that lender wouldnt honour the previous rate now, and L&C couldnt make it do so.
L&C said any decision by the lender to close the application was one it took alone.
Mr and Mrs J sent our service a screenshot, which shows that there is no offer expiry date
for their desired mortgage on L&Cs portal. They feel L&C is relying on this evidence to say
that the lender didnt make it aware that the mortgage illustration would expire, but they
thought that L&C must just have missed a key part of the process. They said if theyd known
about the deadlines, they could easily have obtained all the information they needed within
that deadline.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr and Mrs J were
told when they first received an offer that it could be withdrawn at any time. He said he
couldnt see anything that had told L&C that this mortgage product had a six month expiry
date. And the lender was still processing Mr and Mrs Js application after this date had
passed, so he didnt think the lender had made L&C aware that the product was withdrawn,
until mid-June, when the lender issued an offer at a new, higher rate.
Our investigator said that when L&C told Mr J there was no reason he should lose the rate, it
was only advising him that an exercise in tidying up his application post submission could be
required, as opposed to restarting the process and selecting a new mortgage product. But a
mortgage product is never secured until a lender issues a formal mortgage offer. So our
investigator said he didnt think it was fair and reasonable for L&C to compensate Mr and
Mrs J for the financial impact of having to secure a higher rate of interest, alongside a
goodwill payment.
Mr J replied, on behalf of himself and Mrs J, to disagree. He said the payment of an upfront
fee prevents the lender from withdrawing the rate from an application. Mr J said this fee was
non-refundable. Mr J also said L&C was still telling its applicants now that secured rates
wouldnt be withdrawn, and he wanted us to obtain a recent call hed had with L&C where he
said the call handler said the same thing.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that Mr and Mrs Js rate wasnt reserved,
theyd been told by L&C that the rate could be withdrawn at any time. And L&C just didnt
know about the expiry date. He said that L&C wouldnt give our service the more recent call
that had been made to it, because it couldnt be sure that the call did come from Mr or Mrs J
(the caller hadnt identified themselves on the call) and it also said this call only took place
after our investigators view had been issued. Our investigator said he couldnt comment on
this call, as he hadnt heard it.
Mr J replied again to disagree. He said that the issue wasnt that the product can be
withdrawn at any time. The product was not withdrawn. It had a deadline which they werent
told about, despite checking. Because no agreement was reached, this case was then
passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by saying that I have not sought to obtain the recent call with L&C which 
Mr and Mrs J say supports their case. I understand Mr and Mrs J say L&C has given 
them poor advice, and is still giving out poor advice now. But its my view that any 
general comments or advice given by L&C so long after the issues in this case wouldnt 
be directly relevant to this case, and unfortunately wouldnt be of any assistance in 
deciding the matters in question here. I think we need to focus on the advice that we 
know was given, which has been evidenced by both sides.I also think that there has perhaps been some confusion over some details of this case, 
so Ill set out my understanding as I go.
Mr and Mrs J received a mortgage illustration dated 20 October 2021. That illustration 
was for just under £330,000 of borrowing, on an initial fixed rate of 1.12%. The rate was 
fixed for five years and one month from the date of the illustration, not four years as Mr J 
recalls.
Mr and Mrs J then decided to submit an application, hoping to secure an offer. Mr J said 
theyd paid a fee, and he understood that at this point, the rate was secured.
Whilst mortgage offers are generally binding on the lender, and can only be withdrawn 
in specific circumstances, mortgage illustrations are not. So it is up to the lender, how 
long they are willing to wait for an application to complete. And I havent seen anything 
to suggest to me that the payment of a fee to the lender in this case, would prevent the 
lender from refusing to honour the rate set out in the mortgage illustration.
I should pause here to deal with the fee Mr and Mrs J paid for their first application. L&C 
says it expects this fee will have been returned to them by the lender  the fee wasnt 
paid to it. But Mr J says it wasnt returned. This may be because the second application 
Mr and Mrs J made, based on an illustration provided in late July, also involved a 
product fee of £999, and the lender may have applied the previous payment against this 
fee. So I dont currently think that L&C has to reimburse Mr and Mrs J for this payment. 
However, if Mr and Mrs J can evidence that the first fee was not returned and a second 
fee was paid, I will reconsider on this point.
Mr and Mrs Js application for additional borrowing took some time, because quotes for 
work were needed. The initial quotes fell far short of the borrowing Mr and Mrs J had 
requested, so the lender asked for further information, and it took a while to get this.
Mr and Mrs J had understood a mortgage offer was then made in mid-June 2022, but at 
a much higher rate. L&C says this was because the lender was only prepared to honour 
the rate in the illustration for six months after the illustration was done, and also that it 
had no way of knowing this. L&Cs argument throughout has been that it can only tell Mr 
and Mrs J information that it has been given itself, and there was no indication from the 
lender that the illustration would be withdrawn, until the point when the lender realised it 
had already lapsed. So L&C says that whats gone wrong isnt its fault.
I think that, as a starting point, it is clear that the illustration Mr and Mrs J received in 
October 2021wasnt an offer by the lender to lend, and it wasnt an ongoing commitment 
to lend at the rate quoted there. The illustration is noted as valid on the date 
produced only [the bold text appears in the original] and the illustration specifically 
says it may change after this.
L&C has shown us a covering email which was sent to Mr J with this illustration. That 
email says We can only offer this mortgage deal to you while it's still available on the 
market (it may be withdrawn by the lender at any time). So I think at this point, Mr J had 
been given correct advice about whether this rate was secured for him.
However, in January 2022 Mr J asked if the rate could be lost, because of the time it 
was taking to get quotes to support the application. And the broker responded to Mr Js 
query about whether he had plenty of time to get the quotes he needed, by saying 
the secured rate is 1.12% and there is no reason that we should lose this rate due to 
any delay in receiving the quote for works.When I asked L&C why it considered that this rate was secured, it just said normally a 
lender would give notice of an approaching deadline, and none was given in this case. 
So L&C said its staff would have no reason to believe the application would be closed. 
And L&C said it couldnt have foreseen that this particular application would take this 
long.
So, in short, L&C still says it had no reason to think the rate would be withdrawn. But it 
has given a quite clear reassurance that it wont be, and given that in the context of 
further information being needed to support a mortgage application which had already 
been in process for around three months.
I have seen nothing to suggest to me that the lender had made a commitment to keep 
the rate mentioned in this offer (of 1.12% fixed for the first five years) open until Mr and 
Mrs J had fully completed an application. I havent been able to see why the broker who 
responded to Mr Js query would have considered that the rate the lender had offered 
was secured.
I think Mr J was given mistaken advice here, and that led him to think that there was no 
urgency to securing the additional building work quotes he needed, to support this 
mortgage application.
Mr J says that if hed been properly advised, he could easily have speeded up the 
process of obtaining these quotes, and then he would have obtained the lending that he 
was shown in the October 2021 illustration. I do think Mr and Mrs J could have speeded 
up the process of obtaining additional building quotes, if they had been properly advised 
by L&C.
Unfortunately, I still dont think that would have meant that Mr and Mrs J could have
accessed the lending that they were shown in the October illustration. I think things had
already gone wrong here. Ill explain why I think that.
Mr and Mrs J had existing borrowing, which was on a fixed rate until late 2022. What Mr 
J wanted to do was to take out further borrowing with this lender, on top of the existing
lending. He told L&C that he would then use the funds either to pay for planned building
works to his home, or to pay off the existing mortgage at the end of the fixed interest 
rate term, late in 2022. Mr J clearly anticipated that mortgage rates were going to rise, 
and they would face much higher rates at the end of 2022, than they could obtain in late 
2021. Mr J told L&C he hadnt yet decided how the funds would be used, but appeared 
to have a clear figure in mind, which was very similar to the amount of their pre-existing 
borrowing.
However, the mortgage illustration that Mr and Mrs J received in October 2021 doesnt
appear to have been completed on the basis that it was additional lending for home
improvements, or that it was made on top of an existing mortgage. It says 
This product is only available for like for like refinancing. Further borrowing, including 
debt consolidation cannot be carried out on this product.
Although the purpose of this additional borrowing may not have been finally decided by 
Mr J, its clear it wasnt like for like refinancing. So I think Mr and Mrs J were unlikely 
ever to have received a confirmed offer for this lending, at the rate they were shown in 
October 2021. It looks as if the lending set out in that mortgage illustration was not 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J, for the purposes they have told us about.Mr and Mrs J received a mortgage offer in June 2022. Our service doesnt have this 
offer, but Mr Js emails to L&C say this was for additional borrowing. Its not clear to 
what extent the new rate in this offer was affected by changes in the interest rates 
between October 2021 and June 2022, and to what extent it was affected by the lender 
now being clear that this was a further advance, not like for like refinancing of an 
existing mortgage debt. I would expect both of these factors to have increased the rate 
offered at this point.
We know Mr and Mrs J didnt accept that June 2022 offer. Instead, they appear to have
remortgaged once their existing fixed interest rate deal expired, and kept their borrowing 
at around £330,000.
I have to think about whats likely to have happened if Mr and Mrs J had been properly 
advised in October 2021. I think if theyd been properly advised, theyd have been given 
a different mortgage quote. And, on the evidence I have seen to date, I cant say that its 
most likely that, if Mr and Mrs J had been properly advised in October 2021, and had 
received a mortgage illustration which was for additional borrowing at that time (doubling 
the amount of their mortgage) that its most likely they would have gone ahead. Its not 
clear to me that, if they werent able to access rates as advantageous as that set out in 
the mortgage illustration they received, they would still have chosen to take out 
additional borrowing in late 2021 which would commit them to double their mortgage for 
around a year, rather than access a fixed interest rate in 2022, as they later did.
For these reasons, I simply cannot say that its more likely than not that if Mr and Mrs J 
had been properly advised in October 2021, that they would have gone ahead with their 
planned borrowing, and that this would have been approved at a rate which would have 
been attractive to them.
I also cant be clear on whether Mr and Mrs J would actually have used the mortgage 
funds for the purpose that they applied for. Mr J was very clear with L&C that he was 
applying for a mortgage based on quotes for building work, but that he might not use 
these funds for that work, he might use them to clear his existing borrowing instead. And 
although the quotes he received for the planned work were initially around a third of 
what he wanted to borrow, Mr J continued to say that he would need to borrow around 
£330,000, a figure which does appear to have been derived by reference to the pre-
existing borrowing, rather than by reference to the costs of works.
I know that Mr J said he and Mrs J had other savings they could use for the work, but it 
does still appear that Mr and Mrs J were considering that they could use this application 
to effectively remortgage at a lower rate, before their existing fixed rate lending period 
expired, without incurring the additional costs of paying any ERC on their existing 
borrowing. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask L&C to cover any 
additional monthly mortgage costs that Mr and Mrs J face now, because they werent 
successful in that plan.
I do think L&C has provided poor service to Mr and Mrs J, and given them incorrect 
advice. And I think that meant they wasted a considerable amount of time putting 
together all the information required for a mortgage application which was never likely to 
be what they wanted. For that reason, I would ask L&C to pay Mr and Mrs J £250 now. I 
know Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed, but I dont think L&C has to do more than that. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&C sent a lengthy reply, which contested some of the findings I had made. Ill look at each 
of the issues in turn.
L&C disagreed with my conclusion that Mr and Mrs J could have speeded up the process of 
getting quotes, because it said it had been chasing this information regularly, without any 
urgency from Mr and Mrs J. But I still think that Mr and Mrs J did ask if a significant delay 
would be likely to be a problem. They emailed at the start of January, and said they were 
unlikely to have quotes for a month. And around the end of January, when L&C replied to 
this email, Mr and Mrs J were given an unhelpful reassurance that their rate was locked in. I 
still think this is likely to have contributed significantly to the lack of urgency they felt, in 
getting together these quotes. 
However, I also think its important to note that, whilst Mr and Mrs J said that they could get 
further quotes, they also said they would not be able to show that the amount they wanted to 
borrow was all going to be used for home improvements. At a point when they had quotes 
amounting to a little over £100,000, Mr J said I will not be able to demonstrate quotes 
making up the balance between quote and £320k. And even the revised quotes Mr J did 
eventually outline, left a shortfall of at least £50,000.
L&C also contested whether any offer was ever sent to Mr and Mrs J in June 2022. It said 
they only received an offer in July 2022, and this was like for like refinancing, not a further 
advance. I note that on 16 June, Mr J emailed L&C, to say that an offer had been made on 
13 June, but at a much higher rate. So whether or not an offer was indeed made then, Mr J 
appears to have understood, from L&C, that there was an offer at this point. And I can see 
that the advisors internal notes say that an offer was made, but wasnt valid because the 
application was more than six months old. 
L&C said, although the mortgage illustration which Mr and Mrs J were given said it was only 
for like for like refinancing, that was just because the broker who created this illustration did 
so through the wrong system. L&C said Mr and Mrs J could have received a five year fixed 
rate of 1.12% for their further borrowing. L&C has now sent us evidence which, although it 
contains rates which were valid a little later than Mr and Mrs J received their mortgage 
illustration, does suggest they would have been able to get further borrowing, at 1.12%.
But L&C also commented on what Id said about the purpose of the lending. It said this 
further borrowing application was made specifying the funds would be used for home 
improvements. L&C said funds could only be used for that purpose. It stressed that the 
lender would only allow the money to be used for that purpose, and would require detailed 
information on how the funds would be used. 
L&C said if not all of the money was used for home improvements, then the lender might 
allow Mr and Mrs J to pay back the rest of the borrowing into this mortgage (although it might 
also charge an ERC if they did so). But L&C said the lender wouldnt have allowed the funds 
to be used for a different purpose, like repaying a different mortgage, unless that was 
specifically agreed. 
In the light of the new evidence L&C has provided, I accept that Mr and Mrs J may have 
been able to get additional borrowing on their mortgage, at a 1.12% fixed rate, around the 
time they made this application. But unfortunately, I dont think that changes the outcome 
here. I still think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs J could have secured the lending shown on the October mortgage illustration, in the circumstances they were in. Thats because of what 
L&C has now said about the strict tests the lender would apply for this borrowing  so Mr 
and Mrs J would need to demonstrate that all of the money would be used for home 
improvements. 
That doesnt appear to be the advice that Mr and Mrs J were given initially by L&C. Ive seen 
an exchange of emails in late January, where L&C suggests that if the quotes are well below 
the requested borrowing, then their application can be amended. L&C says Mr and Mrs J 
could later change the existing application to request whatever amount is eventually shown 
on the quotes, for home improvements, and then the remaining sum for personal use. 
But in late April 2022, Mr and Mrs J were told by L&C that their lender wouldnt allow Mr and 
Mrs J to change the loan purpose after all. And it wouldnt allow them to borrow more than 
the estimates. So if they wanted to borrow more than the estimates, they would need to 
make a fresh application. This is the first time Ive been able to see an indication to Mr and 
Mrs J that their application was unlikely to succeed on the basis on which it was being made. 
What L&C has said now, makes me think that Mr and Mrs Js application was always very 
unlikely to succeed. So I still think that there were problems with the advice Mr and Mrs J 
were given, and they were in fact always unlikely to have secured the rate they were shown 
in October 2021. 
For that reason, I still have to think about what would have happened if Mr and Mrs J had 
been given correct advice. So I now need to consider what might have happened if theyd 
been advised clearly  in the way that L&C has now set out for our service - that their lender 
was extremely unlikely to approve additional borrowing, where Mr and Mrs J werent able to 
show that all of the borrowing was for home improvements. And in that case, I think they 
would not have engaged in the process of making this application. 
That means Ive still reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint, although for 
different reasons. 
Mr J only replied some time after the deadline had passed. He said he didnt want to make 
any final points. Although he said some of the details set out in my provisional decision 
werent right, he felt hed wasted enough time on this complaint. 
Mr J said we werent holding L&C accountable. He said he still couldnt understand why 
everyone thinks it is acceptable for L&C to blame the lender for the issues when he was not 
dealing with the lender. I think there has been some confusion here too, as my provisional 
decision was not that the lender in this case is to blame for what happened, or that L&C 
could shift the blame in the way Mr J suggests. I felt the advice given by L&C was at fault. 
And, although I have now considered the further evidence, and reached that conclusion on a 
slightly different basis, that overall conclusion remains the same.
Mr J said he looked forward to receiving £250 for at least the acknowledgement that he was 
poorly advised, although he indicated this didnt come close to covering what this advice had 
cost him. I should note here that I havent suggested L&C needs to cover the losses Mr J 
says he is experiencing now, as a result of not obtaining the 1.12% rate he expected. Thats 
at least partly because I simply dont think he and Mrs J could ever have accessed the rate 
he was shown in October 2021.
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind about the appropriate award in 
this case. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltd must pay Mr and Mrs J £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman