DRN-3829690
The complaint
Mr P has complained that his motor insurer, Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria), cancelled 
his policy without informing him which resulted in him being stopped by the police and being 
prosecuted for driving without insurance.
Soteria is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr P was also 
dealing with other companies who act as Soterias agents. As Soteria has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to Soteria includes 
the actions of the agents.
What happened
Mr P had a motor insurance policy with Soteria which he renewed in February 2021. In 
April 2022 he says he was stopped by police for driving uninsured. Initially he said he wasnt 
going to be prosecuted but he later said he was given a court date in October 2022 where he 
was fined in his absence. He said this is something he is contesting. 
Mr P called Soteria to ask why he was no longer insured and was informed that his policy 
was cancelled in September 2021 after he missed a premium payment in August 2021. Mr P 
was unhappy about this and said he hadnt been made aware. Soteria said it had emailed 
and written to Mr P to say that his direct debit payment hadnt gone through and also that if 
payment wasnt made it would cancel the policy. 
Mr P complained to Soteria and said that he had been homeless and that he didnt receive 
its letters. He said he had made Soteria aware of this and that he had thought that it would 
have called him if there were any issues.
 
Soteria did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that it had never been made aware of the fact 
that Mr P was homeless. It said it listened to calls it had with Mr P at the time and that he 
hadnt mentioned a change of address at any point.
 
Mr P then complained to us. He was unhappy with how Soteria dealt with the matter and 
with the quality of its final response to him. Our Investigator who reviewed the complaint 
didnt think it should be upheld. She said Soteria had been able to demonstrate that it had 
done enough to notify Mr P of the impending cancellation.
 
Mr P didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P. I recognise things have been difficult and stressful, particularly in 
light of the matter going to court. My role is to determine whether Soteria, as Mr Ps motor 
insurer, has treated him in a way that was unfair or unreasonable and for the reasons 
I provide below, I dont think it has. 
Under its policy terms Soteria may cancel a policy in the event of unpaid premiums. The 
policy terms say that Soteria will provide at least seven days notice to its insureds last 
known address. Where possible it will give the insured an opportunity to provide an 
acceptable solution before issuing a cancellation notice.
I dont think this is necessarily unfair or unreasonable and I think it is fairly standard practice 
among insurers. We would expect insurers to apply this term reasonably, for example, we 
might consider it appropriate for the insurer to use two methods of contact when informing 
their insured of their intention to cancel and to allow enough time to respond. We also think 
its fair and reasonable for the insurer should use the insureds preferred method of 
communication and to also let the consumer know once a policy has been cancelled. And 
this is because of the impact a policy cancellation may have on a consumer. 
In this case Soteria has shown that it wrote to Mr P at his last known address. And it also 
emailed him at the email address he had provided and said that email was his preferred 
method of contact. The letter it sent on 17 August said that the direct debit payment didnt go 
through and that it would try to collect payment again ten days later. It asked Mr P to ensure 
that there was enough money in his account to make sure that the payment would go 
through and gave him the option of calling in to make the payment. It also warned that if he 
didnt and if no payment was made it would proceed to cancel the policy on 5 September. 
Soteria has also shown that it emailed Mr P on 18 August and asked him to log onto its 
portal where, it says, there was an email informing him of the impending cancellation. 
Soteria has shown that the email was opened and clicked on a few hours after it was sent 
so, on balance, I think Mr P would have read it and would have been prompted to log onto 
the portal to read about the cancellation. More letters and emails were sent in September 
chasing the outstanding balance after the policy was cancelled. Soteria has shown that one 
of the emails was opened and clicked on whereas a further email was undelivered as the 
inbox it was sent to was full. 
Overall, from what I have seen I think Soteria has done enough to make Mr P aware of the 
fact that his premium payment hadnt gone through and that it was intending to cancel his 
policy. Our Investigator said that Mr P would have also been aware of the fact that no 
payments were leaving his account each month. Even if that wasnt the case, I also think 
Mr P would have been aware or, at the very least, should reasonably have been aware that 
he hadnt had a renewal come through in February 2022.
Mr P said he had told Soteria that he was homeless between December 2019 and 
December 2021. He said he mentioned this in calls it had with Soteria between 
December 2020 and February 2021. I have been provided with calls from that period which I 
have listened to but found no mention of Mr P saying he was homeless. In the last call 
before the February 2021 renewal Mr P mentioned his intention to downsize but didnt 
mention that he had moved or was moving. In the same call he also confirmed that the email 
address Soteria was using for him was correct. 
Soteria has provided a screenshot of its search for calls between 1 December 2020 and 
1 April 2021 and only the three calls it provided were found. We also asked it to check for 
calls from different numbers Mr P may have used but it wasnt able to locate anything for the 
same period. 
Soteria has provided call notes of conversations it had with Mr P between February 2020 
and February 2021 and there is also no mention of a new address or Mr P being homeless in those  it was only after Mr P was stopped by police in April 2022 that this was mentioned. 
Soteria added that Mr P made a successful claim on his policy in April 2020 and no issues 
were raised regarding his address at that stage either. 
From what I have seen, on balance, I dont think Soteria was made aware of Mr P being 
homeless and therefore it had no reason not to write to him at his last home address. And as 
Mr Ps preferred method of contact was email in any event, and Soteria did email him, I dont 
think him not being as his last address made any difference. 
Mr P said he was unhappy with Soterias complaint response and that the name of the 
person who drafted it was unclear. I have seen the response and appreciate that it contains 
a signature and no name but it contains a reference, so I dont think this prevented Mr P 
from bringing his complaint to Soteria or to us. 
I see that Mr P told us that he hadnt received any policy documents until he complained but 
from what I have seen he did receive documents at least at renewal because he mentioned 
the cost of his renewal premium in one of his calls in February 2021.
 
I note Mr P said that he wasnt sure why the direct debit payment didnt go through as he 
had adequate funds in his account. This is something he can raise with the finance provider 
directly and also with his bank.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman