DRN-3222327
The complaint
Mr C complains that Broom Consultants Ltd (BCL) didnt provide him with sufficient 
information when they advised him on transferring out of his defined benefit (DB) pension. 
What happened
In 2012, Mr C was referred by another financial adviser firm (Firm A) to BCL for advice on 
his options regarding his DB scheme. BCL requested a transfer value from Mr Cs DB 
scheme and carried out a transfer value analysis. 
They wrote to Mr C in May 2012 explaining that any alternative pension arrangements would 
have to achieve a performance of 9.15% per year in order to match his DB benefits (critical 
yield). As a result of the scheme trustees offering the minimum transfer value and the current 
effect of charges, BCL suggested his pension was best left in the DB scheme. However, 
they did say markets conditions could change and it was worthwhile reconsidering the 
situation occasionally to see whether a more generous transfer value could be obtained.  
BCL said even though they suggested that Mr C shouldnt currently move his pension, this 
didnt take into account Mr Cs views on death benefits, early retirement, tax-free cash 
entitlement etc. 
BCL received a letter from Mr C in May 2012 thanking BCL for their transfer analysis and 
their recommendations, but said he wanted to proceed with a transfer to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with James Hay. BCL responded a month later saying they had 
received Mr Cs unsigned letter. They clarified that their recommendation was not to transfer 
the DB pension. They reiterated that the critical yield was 9.15% and explained that the 
absolute maximum for which they would recommend a transfer was 7.5%. They also 
explained that the DB scheme gave Mr C valuable guarantees that he was giving up on 
transfer. They repeated that their advice was for Mr C not to transfer.
BCL said they could deal with Mr C on an insistent client basis, but he would need to confirm 
in his own handwriting that he understood this second warning and still wished to go ahead 
with a transfer. As his wife was also effectively losing the spouses guarantees in the DB 
scheme, BCL asked for her signature as well. And also returned Mr Cs May letter and 
requested him to return it with his signature.
Mr C returned a handwritten letter a few days later saying he understood the 
recommendations but wished to go ahead with the transfer. BCL acknowledged receipt in 
early July and re-requested Mr C to return a signed copy of his May letter. They said based 
on his handwritten letter they had requested a fresh guaranteed transfer value from his DB 
scheme.
BCL then informed Mr C a couple of weeks later that the DB scheme would only calculate a 
new transfer value if the receiving pension scheme (James Hay) confirmed that Mr C wanted 
to proceed with the transfer. BCL said as soon as Mr C returned the signed letter from May, 
Firm A could arrange all the necessary forms with James Hay.
BCL says a couple of months later, in September 2012, they received Mr Cs completed 
application form for a pension with Prudential. They spoke to Firm A over the phone and in a 
letter dated 28 September, BCL told Firm A:
The transfer is proceeding on an insistent client basis. We need Mr C to write a letter to 
confirm that he wishes to go to the Prudential plan as the letter we have refers to James 
Hay. After that you can submit the application through your agency noting on your research 
that Brooms have dealt with the transfer advice.
BCL also forwarded some forms from the DB trustees and explained to Firm A which 
sections needed to be completed for a new transfer value.
A Prudential application was forwarded by Firm A to Prudential in October and the transfer 
was requested. The application form named an individual working at BCL in the adviser 
section as well as Firm As details. Firm A was registered as Mr Cs financial adviser and the 
Prudential illustrations showed Firm A would receive commission of £3,870.65. BCL have 
confirmed they later received a fee of £2,071.35 from Firm A.
In response to Mr Cs complaint BCL said they had given him clear advice not to transfer. 
They also said it was Firm A who facilitated the transfer and it wasnt their responsibility that 
Mr C had decided to go against their advice. They said they had told him twice a transfer 
wasnt suitable and twice did Mr C tell them he wanted to go against this advice. Therefore 
the only way he could proceed was on an insistent client basis. However, BCL says they 
would not and did not proceed on this basis as their requirements werent fulfilled. Firm A 
asked for assistance with the Prudential application form and this support was provided. 
However, BCLs adviser relationship with Mr C stopped after they said he could proceed as 
an insistent client but not through BCL.
BCL says the Prudential application form raised concerns as Mr C originally wanted to 
transfer to James Hay, so they asked for written confirmation from Mr C that he wanted to 
transfer to Prudential. They say they never received a response and so considered the case 
closed. They said they found out the transfer had proceeded around eight months later when 
they received the fees from Firm A.
BCL said they answered Firm As technical questions on how to complete the Prudential 
forms, however they didnt authorise an insistent client process nor did they agree to 
facilitate the transfer through their agency. They say they also didnt choose the new pension 
provider or where Mr C would invest. Mr C ended up dealing directly with Firm A.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and decided to uphold it. She didnt think 
BCL had provided Mr C with sufficient information to make an informed choice. She didnt 
think that based on BCLs recommendation letter Mr C would have properly understood what 
benefits he was giving up and the risks involved in transferring.
BCL disagreed and so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint I took into account the relevant rules and regulations at the 
time of the advice including:
PRIN 6 :A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule) 
The provisions in COBS 9 and 19 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation in general and specifically in relation to a DB pension transfer.
I appreciate BCL did tell Mr C he shouldnt transfer which was suitable advice, however I 
agree with the investigator that their advice process was flawed. BCL confirmed that they 
had no copy of a fact find or attitude to risk questionnaire. Based on the evidence provided 
they simply did a transfer analysis and focused on the critical yield which they said was too 
high. After Mr C said he wanted to proceed, BCL told him that he would be giving up 
valuable guarantees and a spouses pension. However, overall, I think the very short letters 
didnt provide Mr C with sufficient information to properly understand the risks of a transfer, 
including the possibility of running out of funds in retirement or receiving significantly lower 
benefits. BCL didnt know Mr Cs objectives in retirement or possible reasons why he might 
have considered a transfer, so they werent able to address any potential misconceptions. 
They didnt hold sufficient information about him to properly advise him on his DB pension. 
Overall, by not explaining the full advantages and disadvantages of a transfer, they didnt put 
Mr C in a reasonable position to make a fully informed choice.
I dont think quoting critical yields and generically mentioning the loss of guarantees, which 
both can be fairly abstract for a lay person, was enough to meet their obligations of acting in 
Mr Cs best interest and providing him with the information he required. The first advice letter 
BCL provided also made it sound as if a transfer wasnt advisable now, but that a higher 
transfer value or other factors in Mr Cs circumstances might mean a transfer could be 
considered. So Mr C was left to fill in the gaps in BCLs advice which I dont think was fair.
The full implications of proceeding on an insistent client basis and the risks involved
in the transfer werent made clear. On balance, I think if BCL had given clear advice 
providing Mr C with full and detailed reasons of why a transfer wasnt in his best interest and 
that he likely would be worse off in retirement, he wouldnt have proceeded.
I also considered what happened after the advice was given. BCL say it was Firm A who 
facilitated the transfer and that BCLs involvement ended before the transfer proceeded. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I agree that it was Firm A who completed and forwarded 
the application form to Prudential and who eventually arranged the transfer. However, I dont 
agree that BCL entirely stepped away from the process after they gave their advice. 
 
BCL informed Mr C that despite their negative recommendation they could deal with his 
transaction and told him what they required (signed letter from May and a handwritten letter 
signed by him and his wife). BCL say they were concerned when Mr C suddenly wanted to 
transfer to Prudential when the original plan was to transfer to a James Hay SIPP. However, 
the transfer analysis BCL carried out compared Mr Cs DB benefits to a pension with AXA 
which suggests this was the original intended plan. And I cant see BCL was concerned or 
took any additional steps when this changed to James Hay. So I dont think the fact the 
receiving plan changed again influenced BCLs actions here.
BCL gave Firm A advice on how to complete the necessary paperwork with Prudential and 
the DB trustees and confirmed the transfer was proceeding on an insistent client basis. And 
even when BCL still considered Mr C would transfer to James Hay, it was always the 
intention that Firm A would complete the paperwork. BCL told Mr C in their letter dated 16 
July that as soon as BCL had received the signed May letter from him, Firm A could arrange to complete the necessary James Hay forms. In my view BCL and Firm A were facilitating 
the transfer together. If BCL didnt want to be involved they didnt need Mr C to send any 
signed letters to them.
I appreciate BCL told Firm A they needed a letter from Mr C confirming he wanted to transfer 
to Prudential and they say this wasnt forthcoming. However, based on what Ive seen its 
clear BCL helped facilitate this transfer and guided Firm A through the process. They told 
Firm A they could submit the application and note that the transfer advice had been given by 
BCL. BCL said they would have analysed a new transfer value if it had been provided to 
them and wouldve given their recommendation on the revised information. However, based 
on their letter to Firm A where they said once Mr C had provided his confirmation he wanted 
to transfer to Prudential they could go ahead with the application, I dont think BCL had any 
intention to do any further analysis.
I dont think its particularly relevant whether Firm A or BCL actively submitted the application 
to Prudential nor whether Mr C provided another letter confirming his acceptance of the 
Prudential plan. The issue here is not whether Mr C transferred to AXA, James Hay or 
Prudential. Its that he transferred out of his DB scheme. BCL clearly helped Firm A facilitate 
a transaction that wasnt in Mr Cs best interest and they received over half of the 
commission payment for their involvement.
I considered Firm As involvement here too and whether they are at least in part responsible 
for Mr Cs transfer losses. However, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances that 
BCL compensates Mr C in full. I think if they had advised him properly he wouldnt have 
proceeded with the transfer, so it was their actions who ultimately in my view led to Mr C 
transferring his pension. I dont think that if fair and clear advice had been given and BCL 
had stepped away from the process entirely as they now claim they did, Mr C would have 
ended up transferring his DB pension.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr C, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for BCLs
flawed advice. I consider he would have likely remained in his DB scheme.
BCL should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date
of the actual calculation.
BCL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldhave been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15%
overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
In addition BCL should pay Mr C £400 for the distress and worry this matter has caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date
BCL receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of any
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it
takes BCL to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Broom Consultants Ltd 
to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Broom Consultants Ltd to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Broom Consultants Ltd to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Broom Consultants Ltd pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Broom Consultants Ltd. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman