DRN-4122008
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
Mrs W says she saw an advert about a property to rent on an online marketplace. She 
contacted the owner by email to get more information and was told it was a one-bedroom 
property for a monthly rental of £540 which included bills. The owner said that she was 
abroad on business and so used a well-known online platform Ill refer to as X to find 
tenants. Mrs W was advised that she needed to pay a refundable guarantee fee of £540 plus 
two months rent (a total of £1,620) and then an agent would meet her at the property where 
she could sign the agreement and receive the keys. Mrs W was provided with photographs 
of the property.
Mrs W decided to rent the property and paid £1,620 to the account of an individual who 
wasnt the owner she had communicated with. After receiving confirmation from the owner 
that shed received a notification from X that the payment had been initiated, Mrs W didnt 
hear anything more from the owner. She realised that she had been scammed and 
contacted HSBC to report what had happened on 5 April 2022.
HSBC considered Mrs Ws claim under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Code (CRM Code) but didnt provide a refund. It said that it had adequate 
fraud protection measures in place and had provided Mrs W with a warning. This warning 
advised not to pay by bank transfer. But Mrs W hadnt done enough to satisfy herself the 
owner was legitimate. In particular, HSBC said Mrs W could have visited Xs website and 
verified the property, paid through Xs platform as required by X, questioned why she was 
being asked to pay a personal account and viewed the property in person before making the 
payment. HSBC also said it was unable to recover Mrs Ws funds from the recipient account. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
considered the complaint under the CRM Code and said that HSBC had done enough but 
Mrs W ought reasonably to have done more to check that she was dealing with a legitimate 
landlord. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
She discussed the huge impact of the loss on her health and finances and said:
- £540 for a months rent was reasonable and she believed the scammers story that 
they were looking to rent the property quickly.
- She paid another person believing it to be the owners partner. She emailed to check 
this but the scammer has removed the response so she cant now evidence this 
point. 
- Shes not computer savvy and trusted the owner.
- The scammers are the criminals here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether HSBC 
should have reimbursed Mrs W under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs W was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for her to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Mrs W too. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it 
can establish that: 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mrs 
W and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns HSBC has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mrs W made are enough to support its position that it may rely 
on an exception to reimbursement in the CRM Code. I dont think she had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payments were for genuine services or that the person she transacted 
with was legitimate and will explain why. I should also say that its the combination of these 
factors that lead me to believe Mrs W didnt have a reasonable basis for belief and that none 
of them can be considered alone. 
- Mrs W responded to an advert on an online marketplace but was told that the owner 
was using X to find a tenant as the owner was abroad and didnt have time to meet 
each prospective tenant. When Mrs W reported the scam, she told HSBC that she 
had seen the property on Xs website but not done anything more. Xs website is 
clear that all communication between hosts and guests and payments should take 
place through the site. X says, 
What we dont allow
Off platform activity: Hosts and guests must not communicate, share personal 
contact information, pay, or request payment for a reservation or experience outside 
of [Xs] platform.
Payments for reservations of 28 days or more also work differently to ordinary 
payments. I consider the arrangements were unusual and ought reasonably to have 
been questioned by Mrs W  in particular in relation to the payment method.
- HSBC showed Mrs W an on-screen warning when she made the payment. This 
warning said, Caution  this could be a scam and went on to say that fraudsters 
may advertise on social media and online marketplaces and appear legitimate. The 
warning also said, Do not proceed if you are asked to pay by bank transfer rather 
than using a more secure method. Whilst I dont think HSBC needed to provide an 
effective warning under the CRM Code, I consider the warning ought reasonably to 
have resonated to some degree with Mrs W and meant that she was alive to the 
possibility of being scammed.  - The rental price was too good to be true and ought reasonably to have caused Mrs 
W concern. I have looked at rental prices in the area and note they are considerably 
higher than £540 a month. Ive viewed the photographs of the flat Mrs W thought she 
was renting and can see that it was in a very good condition. And the owner told Mrs 
W that all bills were included in the price (gas, water, internet, electricity, television), 
as was a parking space and a storage unit to put the owners furniture in if Mrs W 
wished to use her own. I dont think the rental price was realistic and so Mrs W ought 
to have taken additional steps before making the payment. 
- Mrs W paid an individual who was not the owner she communicated with or related in 
any way with X. She says she questioned this and was told it was the owners 
partner, but Ive not seen any evidence of this and dont know why Mrs W would 
need to pay a third party in this way. And if the owner was going through X, the 
payment should have gone through X and not to a private individual. 
Taking all these points into account, Im satisfied HSBC acted reasonably in relying on an 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC ought to have done more to protect Mrs W from 
financial harm from fraud. But I dont think the payment request was so unusual and out of 
character that HSBC should have intervened before the payment left Mrs Ws account. For 
the same reasons, I dont consider HSBC needed to provide an effective warning under the 
CRM Code. 
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC did enough to recover Mrs Ws funds once it was 
made aware of the scam. Ive seen evidence to show that when Mrs W reported the scam all 
her funds had been removed from the receiving account so there was nothing more HSBC 
could do. 
Overall, whilst Im saddened by what has happened to Mrs W and to hear of the 
consequences of the scammers actions, I cant reasonably ask HSBC to refund her losses. I 
realise this will be extremely disappointing to Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman