DRN-2566105
The complaint
Mr P complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) failed to adhere to an agreed payment plan arrangement, charged interest and placed 
his debt with a debt collection agency.
What happened
Mr P entered into a payment plan arrangement via a debt charity in April 2019. An 
agreement was made with BPF to accept £5 per month. Mr P says he received a letter from 
BPF in October stating his account was in arrears and placed with a debt collection agency. 
Mr P rang BPF who explained the plan had been broken. Mr P says he had no previous 
notice from BPF that he was in arrears and all his payments had been made. 
BPF says payments were late and some outside their tolerance allowance and as such the 
plan had been broken. BPF say they attempted to contact Mr P in August and the debt was 
passed to a debt collection agency, as the payments were outside the agreement made with 
them and the debt charity. 
Mr P wasnt happy with BPFs actions and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator upheld part of the complaint as he felt BPF could have done more after 
August 2019 to contact Mr P and as a result should refund interest charges applied for 
September and October 2019. The investigator didnt feel this warranted any compensation 
payment as BPF had acted fairly when passing the debt to a collection agency.
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would have been a difficult and stressful time for Mr P when he found 
himself in a position needing to enter into a payment plan with BPF with the help of a debt 
charity. When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether BPF acted fairly in 
charging the interest on his debt while in an agreed payment plan and if they acted 
reasonably when passing the account to a debt collection agency. 
What happened here is Mr P entered into a payment plan with BPF via a debt charity. From 
the information I have seen BPF set the agreement to receive payments on the 13th of each 
month commencing May 2019. Statements provided to this service show the payments 
werent received until 20th May 2019 and 21 August 2019, in between the payments were 
received on the 18th of each month. While BPF operate a tolerance policy of five days, to 
allow some extra time for customers in these circumstances, it is clear that May and 
Augusts payments are outside of this.
Mr P say he wasnt aware of the problems until he heard from BPF in October 2019 when 
they informed him the account had been passed to a debt collection agency. BPF maintain 
they did attempt to contact Mr P in August 2019. 
I understand what BPF say here but like the investigator I cant see they attempted to 
contact Mr P after the late payment in August and it would have been reasonable for them to 
have done so to understand why these were late and given Mr P the opportunity to correct 
this, after all the payments were received each month, albeit late. That said allowing a few 
days tolerance is evidence that BPF were acting reasonably but thats not to say they have 
to accept late payments, when considering this happened every month since the plan was 
put in place. 
In the circumstances here I am satisfied, while BPF were able to begin to charge interest 
because of late receipt of payments from Mr P, they could have done a little more here to 
contact Mr P to establish why these continually arrived later than the agreed date of the 13th 
of each month. So, like the investigator I accept that as a compromise BPF should refund 
the interest charged for September and October 2019. I cant see that BPF can be held 
responsible for why the payments were received late, so I dont support Mr Ps view a 
compensation payment is due here, as the payment arrangement was outside the 
agreement with BPF and in any event he hasnt been financially disadvantaged beyond the 
interest we have asked BPF to refund. 
I do feel that while Mr P may not agree, BPF have the right to place the debt with a collection 
agency if they feel this is the best way to manage the debt, provided the terms of the plan 
remain unaltered and this is what happened here. 
I understand BPF have now agreed to refund the charges for September and October 2019 
and while Mr P may not be happy with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of BPF here,  
other than this. 
Putting things right
I instruct Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to 
refund the interest charges made to Mr Ps account in September and October 2019 of 
£23.69 and £5.40 respectively.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to 
refund the interest charges made to Mr Ps account in September and October 2019 of 
£23.69 and £5.40 respectively. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman