DRN-2640930
The complaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave her misleading 
information when she ported her mortgage. 
What happened
Miss T had a mortgage (mortgage A) with Halifax secured on her property (property A). She 
wanted to buy a second property (property B) and applied to Halifax for a mortgage. She 
intended to repay mortgage A using a lump sum and rent out property A.
Halifax suggested Miss T port mortgage A to property B to avoid paying an ERC. Halifax 
accepts it made errors, which led Miss T to believe mortgage A would be cleared. Instead, 
Miss T ended up with two mortgages. When she asked about this at her Halifax branch, 
Miss T was told not to pay mortgage A until the matter was sorted out. She received letters 
about the account being in arrears and this was reported to the credit reference agencies.
Halifax offered about £3,500 to cover six monthly payments for mortgage A, £750 
compensation for Miss Ts upset and corrected her credit file. The investigator said this was 
fair.
I didnt think that Halifax had done enough to put matters right and sent a provisional 
decision to the parties to set out what I thought should happen. In summary I said Halifax 
should arrange a meeting for Miss T with one of its mortgage advisers, to try and find a 
solution to the situation shes in. I said it should refund some of the interest applied to 
mortgage A and pay £750 to Miss T (if it hasnt already done so).
Halifax agreed. Miss T didnt agree. In summary, she said the remaining £20,000 of the lump 
sum shed intended to use for the property purchase was no longer available. She said £750 
wasnt enough for the distress shed been caused, especially being called at work about 
missed payments for mortgage A. Miss T said she was worried Halifax wouldnt treat her 
fairly and that shed have to pay fees if she took out additional borrowing on mortgage B.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before she took out the new mortgage, Miss Ts position was:
Miss T had a lump sum of £60,000 available to repay her mortgage.
the balance of mortgage A was about £46,000 (plus an ERC of about £1,400).
the purchase price of property B was £135,000.
Miss T had a loan of £10,000 which she wanted to repay.
Halifaxs mortgage adviser recommended a mortgage of about £91,000. When Miss T 
received the mortgage offer she queried it, saying she didnt have enough money to buy 
property B. The mortgage adviser said the mortgage was for £91,000, made up of 
mortgage A and another £45,000. She said Miss T would pay a deposit for property B of 
£29,000 and the remainder of the lump sum could be used to repay unsecured debts. Miss T 
queried this again, and the mortgage adviser confirmed she wouldnt need to clear 
mortgage A as she was porting the product to avoid the ERC.
Halifax accepts that the information its mortgage adviser gave to Miss T led her to believe 
that mortgage A would be cleared by porting. It also accepts that Miss T was told not to 
make payments to mortgage A while the matter was being investigated. It corrected Miss Ts 
credit file and offered compensation, and I think it was right to do so. It suggested Miss T 
take independent advice about what to do next.
I have to decide how Halifaxs error affected Miss T and whether Halifax has done enough to 
put matters right.
In summary, after she took out the new mortgage, Miss Ts position was:
the balance of mortgage A was about £46,000.
the balance of mortgage B was about £90,000.
Miss T had used about £28,000 of the lump sum towards her purchase.
Miss T had used about £10,000 of the lump sum to repay unsecured debts.
About £22,000 of the lump sum was retained.
As a result of Halifaxs error, Miss T used the lump sum  which she says was her partners 
money  differently. But the money wasnt lost. She used part of the lump sum towards her 
property purchase (reducing the amount she needed to borrow) and part to repay debts. And 
£22,000 wasnt used. Miss T says this money is no longer available to be used towards the 
properties. Nonetheless this money wasnt lost  Miss T says it was her partners money and 
was kept by her partner. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require Halifax to write off £22,000 of either mortgage (if this is what Miss T is suggesting).
However, Miss T now has two mortgages and that isnt what she wanted. Her intention was 
to port her product to mortgage B and repay the mortgage on property A. I dont think Halifax 
did enough to help Miss T once the error came to light.
The obvious solution would have been for Miss T to take out a further advance on property 
B, and use the money to repay mortgage A. But Halifax said she had to wait six months 
(after taking out mortgage B) before she could do this. While this is its usual policy, given the 
nature of its error I dont think it was fair for Halifax to apply this here. I think it should have 
arranged for Miss T to meet one of its mortgage advisers straight away to explore whether a 
further advance was possible. This would have given Miss T a clearer idea about whether 
she could repay mortgage A with a further advance on property B, whether or not in 
combination with the remainder of the lump sum.
Im not sure how helpful it would have been for Miss T to talk to an independent financial 
adviser before having this discussion with Halifax. Its unlikely that shed have wanted to re-
mortgage or take out a second charge loan on property B at this point. And taking out 
another mortgage on property A wouldnt have met her aim of it being mortgage free.
Halifax put mortgage A on its standard variable rate, as the lower product rate had been 
ported to mortgage B. However, Miss Ts intention was to borrow more under mortgage B, 
and repay mortgage A. I think it would have been fairer to apply the same 2.10% fixed rate 
product to mortgage A as applied to the new borrowing under mortgage B while matters 
were sorted out. This is the rate that would have applied to Miss Ts borrowing if shed repaid 
mortgage A and taken out a larger loan on property B.Miss T says she has two different rates on mortgage B. This is because part was on the 
ported rate and part on the new product she chose when she took out the mortgage. I dont 
think this is an error. And so while I understand shed like both parts on the same rate, I dont 
think it would be fair to require Halifax to apply one product to both parts.  
Putting things right
I think Halifax should arrange a meeting for Miss T with one of its mortgage advisers, to 
explore her taking out a further advance on property B to fund repayment of mortgage A.
Miss T will need a further advance of up to about £24,000, if she uses the remainder of the 
lump sum (about £22,000) towards repaying mortgage A. She will need a larger advance if 
she cant use part of the lump sum, or other funds, towards repaying mortgage A. 
Halifax says the loan to value would allow additional borrowing, although there would be an 
affordability assessment. Halifax must treat Miss T fairly and ensure it takes her best 
interests into account when considering her application.
Halifax should take steps to arrange a meeting between Miss T and one of its mortgage 
advisers within 28 days of Miss T accepting my final decision (if she does). Id urge Miss T to 
attend this meeting. However, Halifax has confirmed that mortgage A is on its SVR and no 
ERC would apply if its repaid. So Miss T can take independent financial advice about her 
options to repay mortgage A if this is what she prefers.
If Miss T had repaid mortgage A as she intended, shed have taken out a larger loan for 
property B. Shed have paid interest on this at the product rate (2.10%). I think Halifax 
should apply this rate to mortgage A from the date Miss T took out mortgage B to the date 
falling three months after the date Miss T accepts my final decision (if she does). Halifax 
should apply any refund to mortgage A to reduce the balance. 
I think Halifax should have arranged for Miss T to meet with its mortgage adviser promptly, 
instead of saying she had to wait six months before applying for a further advance. However, 
Halifax compensated her for the full interest cost of mortgage A for six months, and I think 
this is fair compensation for the delay.
There will be some costs involved in repaying mortgage A. As this would have been the case 
if it had been repaid when Miss T took out mortgage B I dont think its fair to require Halifax 
to waive these costs. However, there might be costs related to Miss T taking out a further 
advance that wouldnt have been incurred if shed taken out a larger mortgage loan for 
property B originally. Halifax has said it will cover any reasonable costs associated with the 
further advance application such as the valuation fee, product fee and legal costs directly 
linked to the further advance. I think this is fair.
This matter must have been upsetting for Miss T. She told Halifax what she wanted to 
achieve with her property purchase and mortgages and its error meant this didnt happen as 
shed intended. She was given wrong information that resulted in her not making monthly 
mortgage payments and having adverse information on her credit file. Halifax didnt act 
quickly enough to put matters right. Its difficult to find an amount thats fair to both parties 
here, and I know how strongly Miss T feels about this. Overall though I think the £750 
compensation offered by Halifax for the upset caused to Miss T is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to: 
arrange a meeting for Miss T with one of its mortgage advisers, in accordance with my 
directions above; and
refund some of the interest applied to mortgage A, in accordance with my directions 
above; and
waive certain costs related to a further advance application, as it agreed to do; and
pay £750 to Miss T (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman