DRN-3477578
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains about what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited did after it made a claim on its legal expenses insurance policy. T is represented by 
one of its directors, Mr W.  
What happened
In July 2021 Mr W contacted DAS to make a claim on Ts legal expenses policy. This related 
to action T wanted to take against a contractor who had carried out a development for it. 
DAS accepted the claim and referred it to one of its panel solicitors for an assessment of 
whether it had reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy terms). The first 
panel firm was unable to carry out the assessment because of a conflict of interest so 
another firm was asked to look at the claim.     
Further discussions took place between the parties including whether to obtain expert 
reports. However, in September 2021 DAS said it had reviewed the claim and would no 
longer be providing cover. It said that was because the date of the event leading to a claim 
had to occur during the period of insurance. It didnt think that was the case here. It accepted 
it should have identified that earlier and offered to pay T £500 in recognition of the impact of 
that error on it. 
Mr W provided evidence which showed the policy start date was actually August 2019 
(rather than August 2020 as DAS had said). DAS accepted that was the case but still 
thought the event giving rise to the claim happened before that date. 
Our investigator agreed DAS had fairly turned down the claim. And she thought the £500 
DAS offered was a fair way of recognising the inconvenience T had been caused by what 
DAS got wrong. 
Mr W didnt agree. He accepted the contractor had carried out some work before the policy 
started and this wasnt covered. But he said other work had been carried out by the same 
contractor after the policy began which there were also problems with. He thought a claim 
relating to this should be covered. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ts policy. This says cover will be provided 
where the date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance.
It defines date of occurrence as the date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more 
than one event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of 
occurrence is the date of the first of these events (this is the date the event happened, which 
may be before the date your or an insured person first became aware of it). 
Ive thought about how that applies in this case. I think its agreed T entered into a contract 
for works to be carried out in 2016. DAS says the date of occurrence would be when the 
works (which were later found to be defective) were carried out. And as these works were 
quite extensive its taken that date as being when they were completed. That was also in 
2016. 
T didnt take out this policy until August 2019 so I think DAS is right to say the date of the 
event leading to the claim was before the start of the policy. However, our normal approach 
is to say time should run from a customers date of knowledge. Wed think about whether 
they knew (or should reasonably have known) there was a problem which could lead to a 
legal dispute when they took out the policy. 
In this case I appreciate at the point the works were completed T may not have been aware 
of significant issues with them. But I think its clear it was aware of problems from 2018 
onwards as it had to engage the original contractors on a number of separate occasions to 
carry out remedial works prior to the policy start date. 
So I think DAS has fairly turned down the claim as it relates to those matters. And I 
understand Mr W has accepted a claim relating to works which took place prior to the policy 
start date isnt covered. His argument is that further work was required after the policy was in 
place and it should cover a claim in relation to these. 
I dont think it's in dispute further work did take place after the policy had started. But the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest this was a new development for which T had entered 
into a separate contract. Mr W emailed the contractor in July 2021 and all of the issues 
raised appear to relate to the development originally carried out in 2016 and remedial works 
relating to that. So I think the later works were a continuation of efforts to remedy the 
problems caused by the defective works carried out prior to the policy start date rather than 
being separate and distinct from them. If the original works had been correctly carried out 
then the remedial works wouldnt have been required.
And the policy says where claims arise from the same originating cause the date of 
occurrence is the date of the first of these events. I think in this case the works do have the 
same originating cause and that didnt take place during the period of insurance. As a result I 
dont think DAS did anything wrong in concluding the claim Mr W wants to pursue isnt 
covered by Ts policy. 
But I agree DAS should have identified sooner that was the case. Because it didnt, I think T 
would likely have believed from July to September its claim was likely to be covered. 
However, I think the £500 DAS has already agreed to pay is a reasonable way of 
recognising the inconvenience T was caused by what DAS got wrong.
 
My final decision
I dont think DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did anything wrong in turning 
down the claim T made. And while it should have identified earlier the claim wasnt covered, 
I think the offer of £500 it has made in relation to this is fair. So DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited will need to pay T £500.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman