DRN-1143430
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr L was given seven loans by Sunny between September 2017 and February 2018. Each 
of the loans was repayable in six monthly instalments but Mr L repaid each of them much 
earlier. A summary of Mr L's borrowing from Sunny is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment DateLoan 
Amount 
1 19/09/2017 24/11/2017 £  200
2 07/11/2017 27/11/2017 £  100
3 27/11/2017 05/03/2018 £  100
4 28/11/2017 01/12/2017 £  100
5 02/12/2017 05/03/2018 £  150
6 01/02/2018 01/02/2018 £  200
7 05/02/2018 05/03/2018 £  200
Mr L's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didn't think Sunny had 
been wrong to give the first five loans to Mr L. But she didn't think the last two loans should 
have been agreed. So she asked Sunny to pay Mr L some compensation.
Sunny didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr L accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr L. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Although I've 
not seen the results of those credit checks I'm not aware of any adverse information on 
Mr L's credit record at the time that I think should have caused additional concerns to the 
lender.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mr Ls loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Mr L needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer 
period. And at times Mr L had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to 
consider the total amount that Mr L needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think the fact that Mr L typically repaid his loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So Ive also taken that into account when looking at whether Sunny should 
have given the loans to Mr L.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr L needed to repay appeared affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr L asked for loan 5, that Sunny should have realised that it couldn't 
safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. I think it should have 
taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Ls true financial position. We asked Mr L 
for copies of his bank statements, so we could see what better checks would have shown 
Sunny. He didn't provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks would have 
shown Sunny that it shouldn't have given loan 5 to Mr L.
But looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr L I think by loan 6 the 
lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldn't provide further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Mr Ls sixth loan request in just over four months. Each of the loans 
Mr L had taken had been repayable over a period of six months. But Mr L regularly 
paid those loans off far earlier than planned, but borrowed similar amounts very 
shortly afterwards. I think that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early 
should have indicated to Sunny that Mr L was most likely having significant problems 
managing his money. 
When Mr L asked for loan 6 he wasn't making any inroads to the amount he owed 
the lender. Loan 6 was repaid on the same day it was taken out but was followed just 
four days later by loan 7. Both of those loans were for the same amount that Mr L 
had borrowed on loan 1. 
For most of the time he was borrowing from Sunny Mr L had multiple loans active at 
the same time. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr L was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr L lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ls 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
I have seen that Sunny has said that Mr Ls declared income compared to his monthly 
repayment suggests these loans were suitable. Therefore it does not accept the loans 
provided were unaffordable. But Sunny will know from previous decisions (as well as whats 
set out on our website) that there are cases where this service considers the overall lending 
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan. When a consumer borrows numerous 
loans over a long period of time, its most likely that the loans aren't being used for their 
intended purpose of temporary cash flow problems. As Sunny will have seen, the FCA made 
it clear in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost lending firms that a high volume of 
relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns. And I think thats the 
case here.
So I dont think Sunny should have agreed to give Mr L loans 6 and 7. Sunny needs to pay 
Mr L some compensation.
Putting things rightI dont think Sunny should have agreed to give Mr L loans 6 or 7. So for each of those loans 
Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr L on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The lending pattern before loan 6 means any information recorded about 
loans 6 and 7 is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman