DRN-1436116
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on his 
home emergency policy and cancelled the policy. 
What happened
In mid-February 2019, Mr M took out a home emergency policy with British Gas. 11 days 
later, he got in touch with British Gas to make a claim for a water leak.
One of British Gas engineers visited Mr Ms property. He told Mr M the claim wouldnt be 
covered and that the repairs would need to be paid for. Mr M says the engineer told him he 
wasnt doing the repairs because it would cost more than £100 and that British Gas has 
different internal terms and conditions to its standard policy. British Gas said it thought the 
leak had happened before Mr M took the policy out. It said it doesnt cover leaks that existed 
before a policy was taken out.
Mr M called British Gas. The call handler wrongly scheduled in another engineers visit. But 
this visit was cancelled and Mr M was told his claim wouldnt be covered and his policy 
would be cancelled. Mr M wasnt happy with British Gas decision and he complained.
British Gas didnt change its decision. It said new policies are subject to a first service. One 
of its policy terms says that if the engineer identifies that theres a pre-existing fault during 
this check, British Gas has the option to cancel the policy. But it did acknowledge that a 
second engineers visit shouldnt have been booked for Mr M. So it offered him £20 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr M was still unhappy and asked us to look into his complaint. He said hed taken the policy 
out in good faith. He told us the leak had started after hed taken out the policy. He also said 
hed had discussions with the engineers and a service manager, whod told him different 
terms and conditions applied internally and that theres a conflict between when to carry out 
repairs and when to refuse them.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought, on balance, it 
was most likely the leak at Mr Ms home had existed before the policy began. So he thought 
it was fair for British Gas to turn down the claim and end the policy. He explained British Gas 
had a repair and protect policy under which a policyholder could pay a fee of £100 for a pre-
existing fault and then pay monthly for cover afterwards. He thought it was likely to be this 
product that British Gas engineer and service manager had been referring to when they 
spoke with Mr M. And he thought £20 was fair compensation for British Gas error in booking 
an appointment with a second engineer.
Mr M disagreed. He felt the investigators findings had been biased. He wanted us to listen 
to the calls between him and the engineers. He felt British Gas was acting dishonestly by 
selling policies policyholders cant claim on. He said the leak started after the policy had 
begun. And that the engineer who came out told him he couldnt be bothered to fix the fault because it would take hours. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed. So its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think British Gas has 
treated Mr M fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr M reported a leak only a few days after taking out the policy. In line with the policy terms, 
an engineer came out to investigate the cause of the leak. In the engineers opinion, the leak 
had begun before the policy started. He thought the plasterboard was completely sodden 
through and he couldnt see that such a level of damage wouldve happened in one day.
It seems the engineer found a pre-existing fault in the pipework  part of the heating system. 
Insurance policies are designed to cover one-off, unexpected events. Theyre not designed 
to protect against something that happened before the policy started.
Based on the engineers findings, British Gas turned down the claim and cancelled the 
policy. It relied on a policy term set out in the First Service section of the policy. This says:
At the first service our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved list andyour 
boiler or central heating and ventilation dont have any pre-existing faults.
If we find its not on the approved list or it has a pre-existing fault, well either:
 Tell you what needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost
 Offer you a different product or level of cover
 Or, cancel your agreement or product
I think Mr Ms claim falls within the scope of this policy term. I appreciate he feels that the 
engineers visit was a call-out, not a first service. But the policy says a first service will 
happen within the first 42 days of taking out the policy. So I think the engineers visit took the 
place of a first service visit. 
Ive thought carefully what Mr Ms said about when the leak began. Its possible he didnt 
notice the leak until after the policy started. But the only expert evidence I have to tell me 
when the leak began is the engineers findings. He had the chance to inspect the damaged 
patch of plasterboard and made his findings based on that. His view was that the leak 
started before the policy began. I find his evidence persuasive. And Mr M hasnt provided 
any independent third-party evidence to counter the engineers findings. So I think its most 
likely the leak did start before Mr M took out the policy. 
Overall, I think it was fair for British Gas to rely on the engineers conclusions to turn down 
Mr Ms claim and cancel his policy.
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that he was given conflicting and dishonest information by 
the engineer and their manager. Ive thought carefully about this. I think its most likely there 
was some confusion around what was said. British Gas does offer a product which covers 
pre-existing faults for an upfront fee of £100 and then a monthly fee after that. Mr M doesnt 
have that agreement with British Gas. It seems this was discussed with him as an option and 
wouldve enabled him to get the leak fixed for a £100 fee. But it appears Mr M didnt want to 
go ahead with this option. Given this product offered different levels of cover to Mr Ms existing agreement, I think its 
most likely this was what the engineer and his manager were referring to when they spoke 
with Mr M. 
But even if Mr M was told there was a different internal policy about when repairs should 
happen and when they should be refused, this still doesnt make a difference to the outcome 
of his claim overall. Thats because I think British Gas was entitled to turn it down and cancel 
his policy. So I dont think hes lost out as a result of any conflicting information he might've 
been given. Id also add that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt sell Mr M his policy. So if 
hes unhappy with how it was sold, hell need to get in touch with the seller.
Like the investigator, I think Mr M was put to some time and trouble when a second 
appointment was made in error and then cancelled. I appreciate this mustve been frustrating 
for him. But I think £20 is fair compensation to recognise this error and put things right. So 
Im not telling British Gas to pay Mr M anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman