DRN-3946070
The complaint
Mr N complained about Sabre Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it turned 
down a claim under his motorbike insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Sabre Insurance includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ns motorbike was stolen from his home address after a potential buyer attended his 
house and stole his bike. But when he made a claim under his policy Sabre turned it down. 
This was because it thought the bike had been stolen by trickery or deception which wasnt 
covered by the policy. As Mr N wasnt happy about this he complained to Sabre who 
maintained its position and so he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr N and eventually upheld his complaint. Although 
she didnt think Sabre had acted unreasonably in following a strict interpretation of the policy 
she didnt think the decline was fair. She pointed Sabre towards our general approach to 
cases like this. Highlighting the fact that Mr N didnt hand over full control of the motorbike 
and he took reasonable steps to ensure the buyer was genuine so she thought it should 
settle the claim.
As Sabre didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Sabre declined the claim given a strict application of the exclusion 
under the policy. Its policy has a clause saying it excludes cover if Mr Ns motorbike was 
stolen by trickery or deception which is common in motor insurance policies generally. 
However, I agree that the strict interpretation here hasnt produced a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the particular circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Mr N was selling his motorbike and took reasonable steps to ensure the potential buyer was 
genuine which is key in this case. The potential buyer attended Mr Ns address following a 
number of conversations with Mr N who made it clear that the prospective buyer couldnt ride 
the bike on the day in question because of the weather. The bike was particularly powerful 
and even Mr N wouldnt ride it in circumstances like this, but the potential buyer was 
knowledgeable about the bike and understood the position. 
The thief arrived with insurance documentation (that turned out to be falsified), identification, 
a laptop, and other items that all suggested he was genuine. To the extent that even when 
Mr N reported the possible theft the police just presumed the buyer may have fallen off the 
bike as opposed to have stolen it. Indeed, Sabres call taker reached a similar conclusion 
when Mr N reported the theft. This was because the thief left all his items, including his bag 
and laptop, behind when he stole the bike and the police wondered whether there had been 
a language barrier and the thief didnt understand he couldnt take the bike for a test drive as 
English wasnt his first language.
I know Sabre believes Mr N completely handed over control of the bike. But Ive listened to 
the notice of loss call and Im satisfied Mr N didnt hand over full control of his bike although 
he put the keys in the ignition in order that the potential buyer could test the brakes and forks 
on the bike that had been replaced. Mr N made it clear to the potential buyer that he couldnt 
test drive the bike even though he had insurance in place (which seemed legitimate) given 
the weather conditions. And the thief just simply jumped on the bike and rode off which 
wasnt agreed.
Given all of this, I think Mr N took reasonable precautions to try and ensure the buyer was 
genuine and to try and ensure his bike was secure. Mr N clearly tried to check the validity of 
the thiefs identity including checking what looked like a valid insurance certificate and the 
thief left what seemed like genuine articles including a laptop behind. And I dont think Ive 
seen sufficient evidence to say Mr N handed over full control of the bike even though the 
thief provided what looked like a genuine insurance certificate. He was in very close 
proximity and it is logical that any prospective seller would have to put the key in the ignition 
and start the bike. So, although I can understand why Sabre declined the claim, given a strict 
interpretation of the clause, I dont think that produces a fair outcome in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
As such, I think Sabre should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy adding 8% simple interest for the time Mr N has been without the money owed. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Sabre Insurance Company Limited should 
settle Mr Ns claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and pay 8% 
simple interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman