DRN-3235123
The complaint
Ms H has complained to Only Pets Cover Limited (trading as Scratch & Patch) about the 
increase in premium for her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Ms H took out lifetime pet insurance through Scratch and Patch to cover her 
dog.  The initial premium was around £884. Ms H made a claim on the policy the following 
year. At renewal her premium increased to around £1527. Ms H complained as she didnt 
think that was fair. She also said she was given inaccurate information about how to bring a 
complaint to our service. 
Scratch and Patch said it wasnt able to offer any discount or reduction on the premium 
charged which it believed had been correctly calculated by the insurer of the policy. 
Our investigator said it was for an insurer to decide what it should charge for a policy. But 
Scratch and Patch were responsible for providing Ms H with information about the policy 
when she took it out. She didnt think it had made clear to her the extent to which her 
premium might increase in future years. She recommended it pay Ms H £200 to reflect the 
distress she was caused when that did happen. 
Scratch and Patch agreed to make the payment (though didnt accept it hadnt provided 
enough information). Ms H didnt agree. She said if things had been made clearer at the 
outset shed have gone with a different provider which wouldnt have increased the cost of 
her policy by as much. She thought Scratch and Patch should only increase her renewal 
premium by around £100 - £200. So I need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms H is unhappy about the increase in the cost of her policy and believes a 
much smaller amount would be reasonable. I understand her concerns. But the premiums 
shes charged arent set by Scratch and Patch but by the insurer of her policy (which is a 
different business). So if Ms H wants to pursue those issues shell need to raise them with 
the insurer.
What Scratch and Patch are responsible for is providing information about the policy to Ms H 
And the relevant rules (the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  ICOBS) say it 
needs to take reasonable steps to provide a customer with: 
appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that 
the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed. 
That information should be clear, fair and not misleading. And it would include drawing the 
customers attention to, and highlighting the main provisions of, the policy and the significant 
limitations and exclusions.
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a greater 
level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding the long-term cost and 
cover for customers with these policies, as the cost doesnt stay the same for the life of the 
policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and the cost of 
veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to claims, changes in 
insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high the 
cost could be. 
I think Scratch and Patch should have explained those potential long term cost implications 
of the policy to Ms H. I appreciate it wouldnt have been able to tell her exactly what the cost 
of her policy would be in future years. But its in the nature of these policies that someone 
would expect to keep it for the lifetime of their pet. So Ms H did need to understand that the 
cost of the policy might increase significantly over that period and to the extent it could 
become unaffordable for her
I dont think the information that Scratch and Patch provided when Ms H took this policy out 
did make this clear. I appreciate her policy document says:
each year we may change any details of your policy and premium or not offer renewal, in 
doing this will take into account the information we have about your policy, your pets 
medical history, claims made and expected future treatment and claims costs. In general 
premiums increase with the age of your pet and if claims have been made 
But thats on page eight of a 25 page document. I think this is significant information that 
should have been drawn to her attention. And in any case I dont think that wording makes 
clear the extent to which the cost of the policy might increase in future years.
I can see the Statement of Facts Ms H was sent at renewal in 2021 does contain more 
information about the potential for the cost of the policy to increase in future. But the version 
she was sent when first taking out the policy doesnt include that wording. So this isnt 
something Ms H would have been aware of at that time. 
Ive gone on to think about how thats affected Ms H and whether shed have acted 
differently if shed been given clearer information. Ms H took out pet insurance, so she 
clearly wanted some type of cover for her pet. And, as she chose to take out a lifetime 
policy, she had some interest in the greater level of cover it provided. Shes told us shed 
looked into other providers but chose a lifetime policy as it allowed for year on year cover of 
conditions and her breed of dog came with a particular risk of expensive vets fees. 
Given that I think its likely Ms H would still have gone ahead with a lifetime policy, even if 
shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future Shes said that more 
information would have led her to take out cover with an alternative provider but I think its 
unlikely that would have resulted in her paying a significantly lower amount as providers that 
offer this type of insurance tend to operate in a similar wayBut I do accept the premium increase clearly came as a shock to Ms H when she received 
her renewal documentation, given it hadnt been made clear to her this might happen. She 
might reasonably have thought there would be some increase as shed made a claim on the 
policy but I think the extent of that increase would have been unexpected and would have 
caused her distress. 
I know Ms H is also concerned about the information she was given about complaining to 
our service when she called Scratch and Patch. It hasnt commented or provided evidence in 
relation to this. So I have no reason to doubt what she says. I understand Ms H was able to 
establish the correct position relatively quickly and this obviously didnt prevent her from 
bringing the complaint to us. But I appreciate it will have been frustrating to be given the 
wrong information. 
However, taking everything into account I think the £200 our investigator recommended is 
the right amount to recognise the impact of these failings on Ms H.
 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Only Pets Cover Limited will need to pay Ms H £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman