DRN-1975149
The complaint
Miss F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined to refund the repayment charge 
(ERC) she paid when she sold her property. She says HSBC made it impossible for her to 
meet its porting criteria. 
What happened
Miss F had a mortgage with HSBC with a fixed interest rate product. She sold her property 
and paid an ERC. She took out a mortgage with HSBC a few months later to buy a house 
with her partner. Despite this, HSBC didnt refund the ERC.
Miss F says she doesnt understand why she didnt meet porting criteria and says shes 
been treated unfairly. Shed like the ERC she paid refunded.
Our investigator said HSBC had applied its porting criteria correctly.
Miss F didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we refer to a mortgage, were talking about a loan secured by a charge on a house. 
When the house is sold the loan is repaid, and the charge is removed. If the borrower buys a 
new house, they take out a new loan secured by a new charge on their new property. 
Borrowers can usually choose from a range of interest rate products offered by their lender, 
such as variable rate or fixed interest rate products. Its standard that a fixed interest rate 
product comes with an ERC. When a borrower moves house, they repay the old mortgage  
breaking the fixed rate and incurring the ERC. But if they take out a new mortgage with the 
same lender, at the same time or within a short period, to buy the new property, the lender 
will often allow them to move the interest rate product to the new mortgage (this is what is 
known as porting) so that the rate doesnt come to an end  and the ERC can be avoided or 
refunded.
Miss F took out a mortgage with HSBC in 2016, with a 3.29% fixed rate product. The 
mortgage offer says an ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid before the end of the fixed 
rate period in July 2021. 
The mortgage offer says if Miss F moved during the fixed rate period, HSBC might allow her 
to transfer her interest rate to a new property. This was subject to checks and its normal 
assessment criteria. The mortgage offer said to avoid incurring an ERC the sale and new 
purchase must happen at the same time, or within six months. Theres more information 
about when the ERC will be refunded in the mortgage terms and conditions.
Miss F sold her house and repaid her mortgage in March 2019. She paid an ERC. Miss Fs 
purchase had fallen through, so she didnt go ahead with her application for a new mortgage 
at that time. HSBC sent a letter to Miss Fs solicitor which said, subject to certain provisos, it 
would refund the ERC if Miss F took out a mortgage within six months.
Miss F and her partner found a property and applied to HSBC for a mortgage in April 2019, 
on an execution only (non-advised) basis. They chose a 2.19% fixed interest rate product.
Miss F and her partner took out the mortgage. Miss F was upset to then find that HSBC 
wouldnt refund the ERC shed paid in March 2019. 
Did HSBC make an error?
Miss Fs understanding from the letter HSBC sent to her solicitor is that shed qualify for a 
refund of the ERC if she took out a mortgage product with the same fixed rate, or higher, 
than the mortgage shed repaid. Thats not whats intended. What should have happened is 
for Miss F to apply to transfer (port) her fixed interest rate product to the new mortgage, at 
least for a part equal to her previous balance. 
Miss F didnt do this. Miss F and her partner took out a new product, with a lower fixed 
interest rate. 
It seems Miss F didnt know she needed to make a porting application. But I dont think this 
was due to an error by HSBC. Miss Fs mortgage offer from 2016 says she can apply to 
transfer her interest rate product, and would need to contact HSBC if she wanted to do this. 
Miss F and her partner applied for the mortgage on an execution only basis. HSBC says its 
online system informed Miss F of the option to transfer her mortgage rate. It sent a screen 
shot which supports this. Theres a number for customers to call to discuss the amount 
theyre eligible to port. 
Miss F didnt contact HSBC about refunding the ERC or porting until after shed taken out 
the new mortgage with her partner. HSBC didnt have an opportunity to discuss the option of 
porting with Miss F until after shed taken out a new mortgage  by which time it was too late 
to port. Miss F didnt transfer her interest rate to the new mortgage. And so I dont think it 
was wrong or unfair for HSBC to decline to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman